Abstract 
 Jingjing Zhu, Hongming Cai, Fenglin Bu School of Software Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai, China jewel, hmcai}@ sjtu.edu.cn 002 bu-fl@cs.sjtu.edu.cn   
Identifying RESTful Web Services in Service-oriented Software Product Line 
In cloud computing, SaaS provider provides applications as services through the Internet. In order to enable SaaS provider to meet the requirements of different tenants as much as possible, we used the method for core asset development in service-oriented software product line to develop the service set provided by SaaS provider. Feature 
oriented domain analysis \(FODA\ is a common used method in the core asset development, but when it is applied to the service-oriented software product line, it has some limitations 1\ Before developing the core asset, we need to know what services are included in the core asset, but FODA is lack of the capability to identify what services need to be developed. 2 Multiple architecture styles of services in the core asset can lead to the result that the target system may use various methods to call for services and make the development of the target system complex. To solve these problems, firstly, we selected RESTful web service as the service type in the core asset to enable the target system call for services in a unified 
way. Then we proposed an object-operation-independent feature model according to the characteristic of RESTful web services. Finally, we designed a method to identify RESTful web services from the object-operation-independent feature model. Through the verification, the proposed method can support the identification of services in the core asset and enable the target system call for services in a unified way 
Keywords-service-oriented software product line; feature model; service identification; RESTful web service; SaaS 
 
 I NTRODUCTION  Cloud computing refers to applications delivered as services over the Internet[1  2  S o f t w a re as  a Se rv ic e  S aaS   
I 
is a form to provide services. A SaaS provider need to meet the requirements of different tenants as much as possible to get more benefits. The requirements of the tenants in a specific application domain have many commonalities and variability. The core asset also reflects the commonalities and variability in a specific domain. So the service set provided by the SaaS provider is similar to the core asset in the software product line. For the similarity between core asset and service set provided by SaaS providers, we can use the method for core asset development in the serviceoriented software product line to develop the service set 
provided by SaaS provider in a specific domain. Featureoriented domain analysis \(FODA\ is a common used method in the core asset development phase, but when it is used in the service-oriented software product line, some problems arise, such as identifying what services need to be developed to form the core asset from the feature model, how to unify the architecture style of the services to enable the target system call for services in a unified way and so on. Among these problems, the most important one is identifying what services need to be developed to form the core asset, because the core asset is the fundamental of product development and 
the most important output in the core asset development phase Since identifying what services need to be developed from the feature model is the most key point in the core asset development, many studies have been taken on it. Guo Ying etc o s e d  a m e t h o d to co m b i n e ser v i c e or i e nted method and domain engineering together, and propose a new concept named Domain Service, and give the acquisition process and OWL-S based ontology definition of Domain Service. Dongsu Kang and Doo-Kweon Ba pro po s e d a service identification method that bridges the feature models of product lines and the business process models. Paul Istoan etc st i ngui she d b e t w e e n t w o t y p e s  o f fea t ure s a t o m i c  
and composite, this method makes the entire system to be ultimately built from atomic features, mapped directly onto a set of existing services. Though from a certain extent, these methods can solve the problem of service identification, the architecture style of services is not taken into consideration and this is likely to lead the result that the target system may use various methods to call for services and make the development of the target system complex For the above situation, in this paper we propose a method to identify what services need to be developed to form the core asset. In order to enable the target system call for services in a unified way, we choose RESTful web 
services[6  7  as th e s erv i c e ty pe f o r th e co r e as s et   Therefore the identified web services need to be easy to develop as RESTful web services. According to the characteristic that RESTful web services are resourcesbased, we propose an Object-Operation-Independent\(OOI feature model that separates the business object and operation. And in order to describe OOI feature model clearly, we design a meta-model for it. Finally, we propose a RESTful web services identification method based on the 
2013 International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data 978-1-4799-2829-3/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CLOUDCOM-ASIA.2013.65 487 
2013 International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data 978-1-4799-2830-9/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CLOUDCOM-ASIA.2013.65 487 


 
A Meta-model of OOI Feature Model 
  
OOI feature model to get what services need to be developed to form the core asset In general, the main works of this paper are 1\  propose using the method for core asset development in the service-oriented software product line to develop the service set provided by SaaS provider 2\ propose an Object-Operation-Independent\(OOI feature model that separates the business object and operation, and design its meta-model 3\ propose a method to identify service sets from the OOI feature model and refine the identified service sets, finally acquire the web services need to be developed in the core asset 4\ select RESTful web services as the service type in the core asset and verify the works by using an example of general cargo transport system domain This method can be used in the core asset development phase of service-oriented product line. Before the core asset is developed by the SaaS providers, providers need to know what web services they need to develop. Then when domain experts and molders have modeled the OOI feature model domain engineers can use this method to identify what RESTful web services need to be developed, and tell SaaS providers to develop. Through the verification, this method can identify what RESTful web services need to be developed in the core asset development phase The remainder of this paper is organized as follows Section 2 gives the overview of the identification method Section 3 illustrates the meta-model and feature model that separates the business object and operation. Section 4 introduces the approach of identifying services from the OOI feature model. Section 5 gives examples by using our approach and discussion of the approach. Section 6 is the conclusion II O VERVIEW OF I DENTIFICATION M ETHOD  This method is used in the core asset development phase in service-oriented product line, and its objective is to identify what services need to be developed to form the core asset. Fig. 1 gives the overview of the service-oriented product line development process In Fig. 1, the activities surrounded by the dotted box are the activities in the identification method. The method is used in the core asset development phase of service-oriented software product line. According to the application requirements of all types of enterprises in a specific domain domain experts and modelers analyze the requirements and model the OOI feature model together. OOI feature model will be described in detail in the following. When the feature model modeled, domain engineers use the OOI feature model to identify what RESTful web services need to be developed to form the core asset and what resources are involved in these services. The identification method includes three activities, and what each activity does will be introduced in detail in the following. After service identification, we will get a list of the RESTful web services needed to be developed and SaaS provider will develop services according to the list. SaaS provider can develop services that meet the requirements of different tenants so far Fig. 1 OOI  F EATURE M ODEL  Feature model describes the commonalities and variability of all products in a specific domain. It is the fundamental for identifying and developing core asset. For RESTful web services are selected to be the services type in this paper, the traditional feature model cannot support service identification well. So we propose an ObjectOperation-Independent \(OOI\ture model that separates business object and operation to support the service identification Fig. 2 shows the meta-model of the OOI feature model From the meta-model, it can be seen that there are three new elements that are proposed by us and not included in the traditional feature model. The three elements are the subclasses operation feature, object feature and operated-by The class feature represents commonalities or variability in a specific domain. The property type has two types of 
Overview of  Service-oriented Product Line Development Process In product development phase, when tenant has specific requirements, developers analyze the requirements and use services directly or develop its own system by using services provided by SaaS provider. Developer can subscribe to the service and get the services from cloud This section introduces the overview of the identification method, and the position it is in the whole service-oriented software product line. Next section will introduce the OOI feature model III 
 
488 
488 


002 
  
  
B Formal Expression of OOI Feature Model A Dividing Features into Groups 
 
 1   2 
When model the OOI feature model, there are some constraints need to pay attention to the object feature need to be the parent node of the related operation feature the relationship between object feature and related operation feature need to be operated-by in the normal case the secondary node is an object feature According to the meta-model, the final feature model can be represented as FM OOI feature model is represented as FM F, R, C OOI feature model is mainly composed of feature set F relationship set R, and constraint set C Feature set is represented as F = \(FName FType, Fdescription, FC\ FC = \(OBF, OPF FName represents the name of the feature. FType represents the type of the feature. Namely the feature is mandatory or optional. Fdescription represents the description of the feature. FC represents which class is the feature belonging to, either OBF or OPF. OBF represents object feature and OPF represents operation feature Relationship set is represented as R Rname, RParent, RChild, RC\, RC = \(Composed-by Implemented-by, Specialization, Operated-by Rname represents the name of the relationship. RParent represents the parent node in a relationship. RChild represents the child node in a relationship. RC represents which class is the relationship belongs to, Composed-by Implemented-by, Specialization or Operated-by Constraint set is represented as C CName, CFormer, CLatter, CC\ CC = \(Require, Exclude CName represents the name of the constraint. CFormer represents the former feature in the constraint. CLatter represents the latter feature in the constraint. For example, in the constraint A requires B, CFormer is A and CLatter is B CC represents which class is the relationship belong to Require or Exclude This section introduces the meta-model and the formal expression of the OOI feature model, and the next section will introduce the identification method of RESTful services from the OOI feature model IV I DENTIFYING REST FUL W EB S ERVICES  Through the feature modeling activity, we get the OOI feature model which shows commonalities and variability between products in a specific domain. Then we will identify services through analyzing OOI feature model Since we select RESTful web services as the type of services, resources become the main focus in the identification method. Fig. 3 shows the identification process of our method There are three activities in the whole process. Activity 1 dividing features into groups to form the candidate service sets. Activity 2 refining the candidate service sets to get service sets. Activity 3 defining RESTful web services from the service sets to get the services need to be developed in the core asset development phase. The three activities will be introduced in detail in the following sections The first activity of the identification method is dividing features into groups to form the candidate service set Candidate service set is a subset of the feature model A candidate service set CS is composed of some features in the feature model, and the feature model is the union set of Fig. 3 
 
Fig. 2 Meta-model of OOI Feature Model values. Feature has two subclasses operation feature and object feature, these two subclasses help separate the business object and operation in the domain. Class relationship represents the relationship between features, and has four subclasses. Operated-by is a new relationship that represents object feature needs to be operated by operation feature. The class constraint represents some constraints between features that cannot be represented by relationship Constraint also have two subclasses Identification Process of RESTful Web Services 
1 
Definition 1 Definition 2 Definition 3 Definition 4 Definition 5 
002 
  
002 
FFFCS ii 
root n i i FCS FM 
489 
489 


B Refining Candidate Service Set C Defining RESTful Web Services D Develop RESTful Web Services A OOI Feature Model of  General Cargo Transport System Domain 
Step 1 Step 2 Step1 Step 2 Step 3 Case 1 Case 2 
 
    
all candidate service sets and the root feature When dividing features into candidate service sets, we do as following steps Find key feature used to group. Since there is the constraint that in the normal case the secondary node is an object feature, and the main concern of RESTful web services is resources \(i.e. business object\. The feature represented by the secondary node of the feature model is selected as the key feature of each candidate service set Grouping features according to the key feature When the key feature is selected, then all features in the feature model will be divided into groups according to the relationships between the key feature and themselves Grouping rules are in a relationship R, if the RParent is the key feature then RChild is grouped into the key featureês candidate service set in a relationship R, if the RParent is already in a candidate service set, then RChild is grouped into the same candidate service set After the activity of dividing features into groups, we will get a series candidate service sets. Since the candidate service sets are coarse-grained, developing RESTful web services according to the candidate service set is not proper The candidate service sets need to be further refined to get services set in moderate granularity When refining candidate service set, the object feature is also the main focus, and the method is composed of the following steps Deciding whether to refine the candidate service set according to the number of object features in the candidate service set If the number of object features in the candidate service set is only one. Then the candidate service set is not needed to be refined. If the number of object features in the candidate service set is more than one. Then the candidate service set needed to be refined Extract new service set from the candidate service set needed to be refined If a feature is an object feature in a candidate service set then form a new service set that the key feature is the object feature. All features associated with the key feature will be added to the new service set. And all operation features associated with the key featureês parent feature will also be added into the new service set Refining new service sets to form the final service sets. After all object features in the candidate service set forming new service sets, delete the service sets that the key feature has child object feature After the activity of refining candidate service set, we will get a series service sets. However, only service sets are not enough. Developer cannot develop RESTful services according to the services sets that composed of features. So we need to define RESTful services that need to be developed from the service sets. Then this section will introduce the approach to define RESTful web services from the service sets For each service set, there is an object feature in the set and many operation features. Then analyzing the operation features if the operation feature is one of the types add delete, get, update, analyze that the resource it operated is the object feature itself or a collection of the object features or a property in the object feature. Then merge the operation features all of this type with the resource it operated group by the specific resource to form a RESTful web service if the operation feature is not one of the four types add, delete, get, update, then analyze what atomic operations are included in the operation feature, and whether each atomic operation belongs to the four types operations or not. If an atomic operation belongs to the four types operations, then follow case 1 to get a RESTful web service If an atomic operation does not belong to the four types operations \(i.e. the operation is a complicated processing procedure\then regard a service provided the operation as a resource, and then the service resource included a get operation as a RESTful web service After the activity of defining RESTful web services, we will get a list of the RESTful web services needed to be developed in the core asset development phase. Then SaaS provider can develop services according to the list This section introduces the identification method of RESTful web services that need to be developed from the OOI feature model, and the next section will introduce a case study using the OOI feature model and the identification method V C ASE S TUDY  General cargo transport system domain is chosen to be the specific domain used to verify our method. General cargo transport system is a system that provides support to manage the business process of the enterprises running general cargo transport. The SaaS provider needs to provide services for enterprises running general cargo transport Firstly, an OOI feature model of general cargo transport system domain will be modeled. During the process of modeling, there are some points need to pay attention to other than the constraints OOI feature model needed. The points are Completeness. The features need to reflect the whole business process, and there is no key point missed Universality. The features need to be suitable for most enterprises, so the enterprises of all kinds of size should be taken into consideration to ensure generality According to all the requirements, we refer to the business process of relevant enterprises running general cargo transport of all kinds of size \(e.g., large, medium small\en we choose the critical and practical node and 
490 
490 


   
RESTful web service Operation Input parameters Output parameters 
 
B Identifying RESTful Web Services 
abstract them into features. Fig. 4 shows a simplified OOI feature model of general cargo transport system domain From Fig. 4, we can see that different from traditional feature model, the OOI feature model separates business object and operation. In the figure, grey rectangle represents object feature and white rectangle represents operation feature. Dot dash line represents the relationship operatedby When the OOI feature model is modeled, the RESTful web services that need to be developed in the core asset development phase will be identified Firstly, features in the feature model will be divided into groups to form candidate service sets. According to the steps mentioned in the Chapter 3, the candidate service sets are acquired. Fig. 5 shows the candidate service sets. From Fig 5, we can see that there are four candidate service sets When we get candidate service sets, nextly the candidate service sets will be refined to get service sets. In the case study, CS1 is chosen as the candidate service sets to verify the refining method Since there are three object features in the CS1, so the candidate service sets need to be refined. Then the analysis will be taken against each feature in the three features Firstly, advance order is chosen as the key feature to form a new set service set 1, and then transfer has relationship with it, so transfer is added into the new set service set 1. Secondly, the parent node order of advance Then RESTful web services will be identified from the service set. Service set 1 will be chosen as the example Firstly, the three operation features in the service set 1 are analyzed. Enter is the add operation on the resource advance order, so it is defined as a RESTful web service that operated resource is advance order. Audit is the update operation on the resource status property of advance order, so it is defined as a RESTful web service that operated resource is the status property of advance order. Transfer is not one of the four types operations add, delete, update, get, so we analyze the atomic operations transfer includes, transfer operation includes two atomic operations get and transfer. Get is the get operation on the resource advance order, so it is also defined as the RESTful web service that operated resource is advance order. And transfer does not belong to four types operations, so treat the service providing the transfer function as a resource, then transfer is the get operation of the service resource, so it is defined as a RESTful web service that operated resource is transferservice Table 1 shows the RESTful web services and the input and output parameters of the RESTful web services identified from CS1 TABLE I After defining RESTful web services, we have the list of RESTful web services needed to be developed by the SaaS provider. SaaS provider can develop services according to 
Fig. 4 A Simplified OOI Feature Model of General Cargo Transport System Domain Fig. 5 Candidate Service Sets of General Cargo Transport System Domain order has relationship with enter and audit, so enter and audit will be also added into the service set 1 In a similar way, service set 2 which key feature is consignment note and service set 3 which key feature is order will be get. But the key feature order has child features so service set 3 is deleted Finally, we get two refined service sets service set 1 = {advance order, transfer, enter, audit service set 2 = {consignment note, scan, sign for, enter audit I NPUT AND OUTPUT PARAMETERS OF THE REST FUL W EB S ERVICES I DENTIFIED F ROM C ANDIDATE S ERVICE S ET 1 AdvanceOrder Add date consigner address advanceOrder Number AdvanceOrder Get advanceOrder Number advanceOrder AdvanceOrder/stat us Update date, operator advanceOrder Number, status boolean TransferService Get advanceOrder consignmentOr der ConsignmentNote Add date, operator consigner address consignee consignmentN oteNumber ConsignmentNote status Update consignmentN oteNumber status boolean ConsignmentNote/l ocation Update consignmentN oteNumber location boolean 
Step1: Dividing Features into Groups Step2: Refining Candidate Service Set  Step3: Defining RESTful Web Services Step4: Develop RESTful Web Services 
491 
491 


Aspect Development method 
              
 
C Discussion 
Service-oriented product line using OOI feature model Traditional serviceoriented product line 
the information provided by the list. Fig. 6 shows part of the wadl of the RESTful web service AdvanceOrder Table 2 shows the contrast between service-oriented product line using OOI feature model and traditional serviceoriented product line. The result shows that OOI feature model and the related service identification method can support the identification of RESTful web services and rapid development of service-oriented systems Fig. 6 C ONCLUSION  In this paper, we use the method for core asset development in the service-oriented software product line to develop the service set provided by SaaS providers in cloud computing. We proposed an OOI feature model that separates the business object and operation, introduced the meta-model and the formal expression of the OOI feature model. We chose RESTful web service as the service type for the core asset, since it is simpler to implement and use Then we proposed an identification method of RESTful web services from the OOI feature model. Finally, we verified the OOI feature model and the identification method by using an example of general cargo transport system domain The next step of work to do is to manage the RESTful web services identified for improving reusability and maintainability, and provide computer automation support for the identification of RESTful web services A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No.71171132 61373030 R EFERENCES  1 
 Feature model Support to service identificatio n The method target system call for services Maintainabi lity 
Wadl of the RESTful Web Service Advanceorder TABLE II C ONTRAST B ETWEEN S ERVICE ORIENTED P RODUCT L INE USING OOI FEATURE MODEL AND T RADITIONAL SERVICE ORIENTED P RODUCT L INE  In addition to the elements traditional feature model has, there are new elements object feature operation feature operated-by relationship Only the basic elements needed to represent the features in a specific domain Can support identification of RESTful web services efficiently Can identify services, but cannot unify the architecture styles of services Can use a unified method to call for services Need to use different methods to call for different types of services  Easy, when need to modify operation ,only modify operation feature and if need to modify business object, just modify the object feature and this change do not affect operation feature Hard, especially need to modify business object then all operation related to the object will need to re-implement VI Dikaiakos M D, Katsaros D, Mehra P, et al. Cloud computing Distributed Internet computing for IT and scientific research[J  Internet Computing, IEEE, 2009, 13\(5\: 10-13 2 Ghaddar A, Tamzalit D, Assaf A, et al. Variability as a service outsourcing variability management in multi-tenant saas applications[C A dv an ce d I n f o r m atio n S y s t e m s Eng i ne e r ing   Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2012: 175-189 3 Ying G, Xiao-yan Z, Jun W, et al. Domain service acquisition and domain modeling based on feature model  Co m p ut at io n a l S c ie n c e  and Engineering \(CSE\, 2011 IEEE 14th International Conference on IEEE, 2011: 26-33 4 Kang D,Baik D K.Bridging software product lines and serviceoriented architectures for service identification using bpm and fm[C  Co mp u t e r an d I n f o r m atio n S cie nce  I C I S 201 0 I EEE/A C I S  9th International Conference on.IEEE,2010: 755-759 5 Istoan P,Nain G,Perrouin G,et al.Dynamic software product lines for service-based systems[C  C o mp u t e r a n d I n fo rmat i o n  Technology,2009.CIT'09.Ninth IEEE International Conference on.IEEE,2009,2:193-198 6 Jiang W, Lee D, Hu S. Large-Scale Longitudinal Analysis of SOAPBased and RESTful Web Services[C W e b S e r v ice s I C W S  20 12  IEEE 19th International Conference on. IEEE, 2012: 218-225 7 Belqasmi F, Singh J, Bani Melhem S Y, et al. SOAP-Based vs RESTful Web Services: A Case Study for Multimedia Conferencing[J I n te r n e t Co mp u ti n g   I EEE, 2 0 1 2   16 4  5 4 6 3  8 Kang K C, Lee J, Donohoe P. Feature-oriented product line engineering[J  So f t w a r e  I EEE, 20 0 2  1 9  4   5 8 6 5   9 Lee J, Muthig D, Naab M. An approach for developing service oriented product lines[C   S o f t w a r e  P r o duc t L i ne  Co nf e r e n ce 20 0 8   SPLC'08. 12th International. IEEE, 2008: 275-284  Lee J, Kotonya G. Combining service-orientation with product line engineering[J  So f t w a r e  I EEE, 20 1 0  2 7  3   3 5 4 1    Galster M, Eberlein A. Identifying Potential Core Assets in ServiceBased Systems to Support the Transition to Service-Oriented Product Lines[C  E n gin eeri n g of C om p ut er B a s e d Sy s t em s E CB S  20 11 18th IEEE International Conference and Workshops on. IEEE, 2011 179-186  Kang D S, Song C, Baik D K. A method of service identification for product line  Co nv e r g e nce and H y br id I n f o r m atio n T e chno l o gy  2008. ICCIT'08. Third International Conference on. IEEE, 2008, 2 1040-1045  
 
492 
492 


Figure 9  A map of the area with 002elds of view and localization points Figure 10  A frame and the image points from Camera 1 for the vessel without AIS By applying the same procedure to one of the previously estimated position for both passenger ships as shown in Figure 13 b and c we obtain a much more stretched estimated covariance Clearly localization accuracy in range is much smaller than in azimuth and it is a function of target distance from the sensors All the results are superimposed as green points in Figure 13 d observing that the crosses keep their shape near the coast and collapse with increasing distance 8 C ONCLUSIONS This paper has proposed an innovative calibration technique for cameras displaced on harbour coastline in which the calibration points are obtained from AIS data from ships sailing in the cameras 002elds of views Our experimental results have showed that the procedure localizes well vessels appearing in the two camera 002elds of view Future work will focus on the deployment of larger arrays of cameras A con\002guration with N cameras implies a longer calibration phase but any increase in view diversity would contribute to an increase in localization precision The procedure must be inherently adaptive also because a generic vessel could be seen only by a subset of the sensor array at any given time Therefore localization of a vessel requires a combination of solutions of different systems 13 for best use of available information Figure 11  A frame and the image points from Camera 2 for the vessel without AIS Figure 12  Pixel cross-variation for Camera 1 a and Camera 2 b to evaluate localization accuracy Figure 13  Error position covariance for vessel without AIS a Abundo b and Nomentana c 7 


Another important issue is the positioning of cameras in the harbour It is well-known that the localization accuracy is strongly dependent on the distance from the vessels range but an intelligent displacement of cameras with their 002elds of view properly intersected to cover almost the same portion of the sea plane could increase the strength of the whole process A CKNOWLEDGMENTS We would like to thank Prof Carlo Regazzoni from Universit 264 a di Genova for very stimulating discussions on data fusion and for letting us use his precious class notes R EFERENCES  R Tsai 223A versatile camera calibration technique for high-accuracy 3d machine vision metrology using offthe-shelf tv cameras and lenses,\224 IEEE Journal of Robotics and Automation vol 3 no 4 pp 323-344  August 1987  Z Zhang 223A 003exible new technique for camera calibration,\224 IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence vol 22 no 11 pp 1330-1334  November 2000  Technical characteristics for an automatic identi\002cation system using time-division multiple access in the VHF maritime mobile band  Recommendation ITU-R M.1371-4 April 2011  IALA Guideline No 1082 On an Overview of AIS  International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and Lighthouse June 2011  International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea SOLAS  IMO May 2011  R Hartley and A Zisserman Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision 2ed  Cambridge 2003  E Trucco and A Verri Introductory Techniques for 3-D Computer Vision  Prentice Hall 1998  G Medioni and S B Kang Emerging Topics in Computer Vision  Prentice Hall 2004  223Marine traf\002c,\224 http://www.marinetraf\002c.com/ais 2012 B IOGRAPHY  Francesco A.N Palmieri received his Laurea in Ingegneria Elettronica from Universita degli Studi di Napoli Federico II Italy in 1980 In 1981 he served as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Italian Army in full\002llment of draft duties In 1982 and 1983 he was with the ITT 002rms FACE SUD Selettronica in Salerno currently Alcatel Italy and Bell Telephone Manufacturing Company in Antwerpen Belgium as a designer of digital telephone systems In 1983 he was awarded a Fulbright scholarship to conduct graduate studies at the University of Delaware USA where he received a Master's degree in Applied Sciences and a PhD in Electrical Engineering in 1985 and 1987 respectively He was appointed Assistant professor in Electrical and Systems Engineering at the University of Connecticut Storrs USA in 1987 where he was awarded tenure and promotion to Associate Professor in 1993 In the same year he was awarded the position of Professore Associato at the Dipartimento di Ingegneria Elettronica e delle Telecomunicazioni at Universit 264 a degli Studi di Napoli Federico II Italy where he has been until October 2000 when he became Professore Ordinario di Telecomunicazioni and moved to the Dipartimento di Ingegneria dellInformazione  Seconda Universit 264 a di Napoli Aversa Italy His research interests are in the areas of signal processing data fusion communications information theory and neural networks Francesco Castaldo received his Laurea in 2009 and his Laurea Magistrale in 2012 both in Ingegneria Informatica from Seconda Universita degli Studi di Napoli SUN He has cooperated during his thesis work with the PRISMA lab at Universit 264 a degli Studi di Napoli Federico II with prof B Siciliano and prof V Lippiello He is currently a postgraduate fellow with the Dipartimento di Ingegneria Industriale e dell'Informazione at SUN His research interests are in image processing computer vision and data fusion applied to robotics and home automation Guglielmo Marino received his Laurea in Ingegneria Elettronica at Seconda Univerit 264 a degli Studi di Napoli SUN in December 2012 His 002nal thesis project has been on data fusion of digital images with AIS data in harbor management 8 


boards of several journals including IEEE Transactions on Service Computing and the Journal of Performance Evaluation   Zhen has given keynotes and distinguished lectures in various conferences and universities. He was an adjunct professor at University of Science and Technology of China and Beijing University of Post and Telecommunications While he was in France Zhen was  also an adjunct professor of the University of Paris VI \(University of Pierre & Marie Curie\and the University of Nice  Sophia Antipolis, France   His areas of expertise include mobile computing, mobile services, cloud computing, stream processing re al time analytics performance modeling stochastic optimization service oriented architecture and semantic Web      
lxxxi 


en-US Keynote VI I I  en-US GreenCom iThings CPSCom 2013   Towards Carrier Cloud   Dr. Tarik Taleb  Senior Researcher and 3GPP Standards Expert  NEC Europe Ltd, Heidelberg, Germany  Email tarik.taleb@nw.neclab.eu    Abstract   Mobile operators are in need of means to cope with the ever increasing mobile data traffic, introducing minimal additional capital expenditures on existing infrastructures, principally due to the modest Average Revenues per User ARPU Network virtualizat ion and cloud computing techniques along with the principles of the latter in terms of service elasticity on demand and pay per use could be important enablers for various mobile network enhancements and cost reduction This talk discusses the recent tr ends the mobile telecommunications market is experiencing showcasing some of the emerging consumer products and services that are facilitating such trends. The talk also discusses the challenges these trends are representing to mobile network operators. T he talk also demonstrates the possibility of extending cloud computing beyond data centers towards the mobile end user providing end to end mobile connectivity as a cloud service. The talk introduces a set of technologies and methods for the on demand pro vision of a decentralized and elastic mobile network as a cloud service over a distributed network of cloud computing data centers; federated cloud. The concept of Follow Me Cloud whereby not only data but also mobile services are intelligently following t heir respective users is also introduced. The novel business opportunities behind the envisioned carrier cloud architecture and service are also discussed, considering various multi stakeholder scenarios   Bio   Tarik Taleb is currently working as Senior Researcher and 3GPP Standards Expert at NEC Europe Ltd Heidelberg, Germany. Prior to his current position and till Mar. 2009, he worked as assistant professor at the Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University, Japan, in a lab fully funded by KDDI, the second largest network operator in Japan From Oct 2005 till Mar 2006 he was working as research fellow with the Intelligent Cosmos Research Institute Se ndai Japan He received his B E   degree in Information Engineering with distinction M.Sc and Ph.D degrees in Information Sciences from GSIS Tohoku Univ., in 2001, 2003, and 2005, respectively   Dr Taleb  s research interests lie in the field of architectural enhancements to mobile core networks particularly 3GPP  s mobile cloud net working mobile multimedia streaming congestion control protocols handoff and mobility management inter vehicular communications and social media networking Dr Taleb has been also directly engaged in the development and standardization of the Evolved  Packet System as a member of 3GPP  s System Architecture working group. Dr. Taleb is a board member of the  IEEE Communications Society Standardization Program Development Board  As an attempt to bridge the gap between academia and industry Dr Taleb has f ounded and has been the     Dr Taleb  is/was on the editorial board of the IEEE Wireless Communications Magazine IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, and a number of Wiley journals. He is serving as vice chair of the Wireless Communications Tech nical Committee, the largest in IEEE ComSoC He also served as Secretary and then as Vice Chair of the Satellite and Space Communications Technical Committee of IEEE ComSoc 2006  2010 He has been on the technical   
lxxxii 


program committee  of different IEEE c onferences including Globecom, ICC and WCNC and chaired some of their symposia   Dr Taleb is the recipient of the 2009 IEEE ComSoc Asia Pacific Best Young Researcher award Jun 2009 the 2008 TELECOM System Technology Award from the Telecommunicati ons Advancement Foundation Mar 2008 the 2007 Funai Foundation Science Promotion Award Apr 2007 the 2006 IEEE Computer Society Japan Chapter Young Author Award Dec 2006 the NiwaYasujirou Memorial Award Feb 2005 and the Young Researcher's Enc ouragement Award from the Japan chapter of the IEEE Vehicular Technology Society \(VTS\\(Oct. 2003\ Some of Dr. Taleb  s research work has been also awarded best paper awards at prestigious conferences. Dr. Taleb is a senior IEEE member      
lxxxiii 


en-US Keynote I X  en-US GreenCom iThings CPSCom 2013   How Densely Should the Data Base Stations  B e Deployed in Hyper Cellular Networks   Professor Zhisheng Niu  Tsinghua National Lab for Information Science and Technology  Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China  E mail niuzhs@tsinghua.edu.cn    Abstract   One of the key approaches to make the mobile communication networks more GREEN Globally Resource optimized and Energy Efficient Networks\is to have the cellular architecture and radio resource allocation more adaptive to the environment and traffic varia tions including making some lightly loaded base stations \(BSs\go to sleep. This is the concept of so called TANGO \(Traffic Aware Network planning and Green Operation and CHORUS Collaborative and Harmonized Open Radio Ubiquitous Systems published by th e author earlier. To realize this, a new cellular framework, named hyper cellular networks HCN has been proposed in which the coverage of control signals is decoupled from the coverage of data signals so that the data coverage can be more elastic in ac cordance with the dynamics of traffic characteristics and QoS requirements. Specifically, the data base stations \(DBSs\in HCN can be densely deployed during peak traffic time in order to satisfy the capacity requirement, while a portion of DBSs can be swi tched off or go to sleep mode if the traffic load is lower than a threshold in order to save energy. A fundamental question then arises how densely should the DBSs be deployed in order to balance the QoS requirements and the energy consumption in hyper ce llular networks     In this talk, we characterize the optimal DBS density for both homogeneous and heterogeneous hyper cellular networks to minimize network cost with stochastic geometry theory For homogeneous cases both upper and lower bounds of the optimal DBS density are derived For heterogeneous cases our analysis reveals the best type of DBSs to be deployed for capacity extension or to be switched off for energy saving. Specifically, if the ratio between the micro DBS cost and the macro DBS cost  is lower than a threshold which is a function of path loss and their transmit power then the optimal strategy is to deploy micro DBSs for capacity extension or to switch off macro DBSs \(if possible\for energy saving with higher priority Otherwise the  optimal strategy is the opposite Based on the parameters from EARTH numerical results show that in the dense urban scenario compared to the traditional macro only homogeneous cellular network with no DBS sleeping deploying micro DBSs can reduce about 40 of the total energy cost, and further reduce about 20% with DBS sleeping capability   Bio   Zhisheng Niu graduated from Northern Jiaotong University currently Beijing Jiaotong University Beijing China in 1985 and got his M.E and D.E degrees fr om Toyohashi University of Technology Toyohashi, Japan, in 1989 and 1992, respectively. After spending two years at Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd Kawasaki, Japan, he joined with Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 1994, where he is now a professor at the  Department of Electronic Engineering and the deputy dean of the School of Information Science and Technology. His major research interests include queueing theory, traffic engineering, mobile Internet radio resource management of wireless networks, and g reen communication and networks   Dr Niu has been an active volunteer for various academic societies including council member of Chinese Institute of Electronics 2006 10 vice chair of the Information and Communication Network Committee of Chinese In stitute of Communications 2008 12 Councilor of IEICE Japan 2009 11 and membership development coordinator of IEEE Region 10 \(2009 10\ In particular, in IEEE Communication 
lxxxiv 


Society, he has been serving as an editor of IEEE Wireless Communication Magaz ine \(2009 12\ director of Asia Pacific Region \(2008 09\ director for Conference Publications \(2010 11\ chair of Beijing Chapter 2001 08 and members of Award Committee 2011 13 Emerging Technologies Committee 2010 12 On line Content Committee 20 10 12 and Strategy Planning Committee He has also been serving as general co   co    chairs o f    Prof. Niu is a co recipient of the Best Paper Awards from the 13th and 15th Asia Pacific Conference on Communication APCC in 2007 and 2009 respectively and received Outstanding Young Researcher Award from Natural Science Foundati on of China in 2009 He is now the Chief Scientist of the National  Energy and Resource Optimized Hyper Cellular Mobile Communication System 2012 2016 which is the first national project green communications in China He is the fellow of IEEE and IEICE and a distinguished lecturer of IEEE Communication Society \(2012 2013  
lxxxv 


