Towards a mission planning toolbox for the Airborne Network Optimizing ground coverage under connectivity constraints Abhishek Tiwari Anurag Ganguli Ashwin Sampath UtopiaCompression Corporation 1150 West Olympic Boulevard Suite 1020 Los Angeles CA 90064 Abstract The Airborne Network AN is a constellation of networked aircrafts flying in periodic orbits AN is an enabling technology for Network Centric Warfare for the military autonomous air traffic control for commercial aviation and for providing internet access over a broad urban area AN is a highly dynamic environment and presents challenges that have not been addressed in traditional wire-line or wireless MANET research Wireless 
links in AN are quasi-persistent and break due to platform banking and antenna shadowing In this paper the objective is to deploy airborne nodes so that they provide ground nodes with high data upload capacity while making sure that a minimal topology within the backbone airborne network is always maintained For the sake of simplicity of presentation we make a few assumptions on the trajectories of the airborne nodes We verify our assumptions against a well studied airborne network deployment scenario Using tools from convex optimization we determine optimal locations of airborne nodes for three different scenarios We present 
our results graphically and illustrate them using examples TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 INTRODUCTION  PRELIMINARIES  MISSION PLANNING  CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  REFERENCES  3 8 9 1 INTRODUCTION The United States Air Force envisions deployment of the Airborne Network AN by the year 2020 This will enable the Department of Defense DoD Global Information Grid GIG information exchanges via airborne platforms There is also a great deal of interest within the DoD to achieve interoperability between various DoD networks The AN 
with its potential to provide wide area ground coverage and comparatively lower latency than satellite communication SATCOM seems to be the ideal platform to achieve this interThis work was sponsored by the Department of 
Air Force under Contract  FA8750-07-C-0158 Opinions interpretations conclusions and reconmendations are those of the authors and are not necessarily endorsed by the United States Government Email addresses of authors abhishek anurag ashwin utoplacompresslon 
com 1-42441488 1/08/$25 00 2008 IEEE operability In the commercial sector the AN can potentially be used by wide area 
urban internet service providers Internetworked planes can enable sophisticated distributed conflict resolution for autonomous air traffic control applications For the airborne network to be used for the above application mission planning tools that take into consideration ground coverage and connectivity need to be developed To the best of our knowledge few researchers have addressed the problem of AN planning and deployment We discuss the relevant articles in the following paragraph In 1 the authors talk about communication planning for future deployment of the airborne network but there is no mention of how to plan the network if connectivity to 
ground nodes is also an issue In 2 a few alternative architectures for link management are presented In 3 the authors identify network parameters throughput latency etc availability of network airborne node collision safety and network security as fundamental issues in the design of the AN for commercial aviation In 4 the authors present a few deployment scenarios where heterogenous airborne nodes are placed at different elevations They also evaluate the performance of commercial off the shelf routing protocols in the airborne network scenario In 5 the authors look at the problem of 
deploying UAVs to provide connectivity to ground nodes However the inter-aircraft connectivity maintenance is not considered As against AN planning and deployment there has been a lot of research lately on applying and comparing existing Mobile Ad hoc Networks MANET routing protocols for different Airborne Network scenarios 6 7 and 8 In 6 the authors compare the performance of four MANET protocols AODV TORA OLSR OSPFv3-MANET The comparison is done on modified OPNET source code that reflects aircraft banking and antenna occlusion The metrics used for comparison are protocol overhead packet 
delivery ratio and packet delay For the scenario discussed in 6 it has been found that the proactive protocols OLSR and OSPFv3-MANET provided the best performance results with high packet delivery ratio and consistent low end-to-end delays In 7 Border Gateway Protocol BGP which is the defacto standard in use today to provide terrestrial inter-networking routing has been tried in airborne network domain Airborne network nodes predominantly employ line of sight LOS radio links which can range up to 200 nautical miles However LOS is unavailable when the aircrafts are turning due to shadowing caused I 


by platform banking Link outages caused as a result of antenna shadowing can last up to 30 minutes 9 Deploying thousands of nodes in the airborne backbone is prohibitive due to the cost reasons which implies that the number of backbone nodes will of the order of tens Long periods of link unavailability in such sparse backbone may result in a disconnected topology if the deployment of the airborne network is not done carefully Researchers in the area of routing for airborne network have cited the sparseness of the airborne network as a major hurdle 6 7 In order to overcome the topology sparseness problem there is an absolute necessity for a systematic formulation of planning and optimization for airborne network deployment under topology constraints To the best of our knowledge even though researchers have attempted to lay out the metrics for the airborne network deployment problem a rigorous analysis of optimizing the metrics is still missing In this paper we lay out a mathematical foundation to optimize airborne network deployment for three specific scenarios In each of the three scenarios the objective is to maximize the coverage provided to nodes on the ground which serve as sources and sinks of information A minimal set of communication links within the AN is used as a constraint so as to ensure a minimal level of connectivity The work presented here forms part of airborne network mission planning toolbox under development at UtopiaCompression Corporation Our team is also developing routing solutions for the airborne network but that work is beyond the scope of this paper In Section 2 we introduce the notation that we use in the paper along with some preliminary concepts In Section 3 we first introduce metrics to evaluate the quality of air-ground and air-air communication links respectively We then analyze three different airborne network deployment scenarios and optimize ground coverage under topology constraints using tools from convex optimization Finally we sum up our conclusions and present future research directions in Section 4 2 PRELIMINARIES In this section we introduce some preliminary notation and concepts that will be used throughout the course of the paper We begin with the notation Let R denote the set of real numbers We look at ground nodes i.e locations on the surface of the earth which serve as sources and sinks of information Let 1 QM G denote the locations of M ground nodes where 9i C R 2 for all i We look at a group of aircraft which act as nodes to relay the information between the ground nodes This group of relay nodes form the airborne network We make the following assumptions that are specific to the airborne network Al There are no multi-path effects Two nodes airborneairborne or airborne-ground can communicate with each other if there exists a direct line of sight between them and the Euclidean distance between them is less or equal to the radio range rradio This assumption makes sense for the airborne network scenario due to its operation in free space A2 As a first step mission planning for airborne network deployment is assumed to be done off-line at the Tactical Operations Center TOC The flight plans for the entire mission are then available to the routing equipment on each airborne node Under normal practice the pilots of the airborne nodes are given air tasking orders ATO before the mission that they are bound to follow as closely as possible A3 All airborne nodes fly in circular trajectories of same radius r at the same elevation z and there is zero tilt in their orbits with respect to the horizontal earth surface The airborne nodes fly at a constant speed s in their respective orbits Figure 1 from 1 illustrates a typical airborne network deployment scenario One can notice that the trajectories of different airborne nodes are circular and elongated elliptical In this paper for ease of presentation of concepts we have made the above stated assumptions Optimizing over a larger class of trajectories is an avenue of future research  M M P B N&de 1S  _ Node Node 16 17  Figure 1 scenario Illustration of an airborne network deployment A4 We assume the curvature of earth to be zero over the region of deployment of the airborne network As in 1 this assumption has been made to simplify the analysis but the tools presented are applicable in the most general case A5 For the purpose of optimization in this paper we assume that the banking of the aircraft while turning does not occlude the transmitter or the receiver located on the aircraft Taking banking into account while optimizing is another avenue of future research We let fA1 AN  be the locations of the N points in R 3 signifying the centers of the circular trajectories of the airborne nodes Since the airborne nodes are assumed to move at constant altitude the coordinates of the Ai's representing the altitude are the same for all i Now given a trajectory center A  Xa Ya z and a ground node 9 xg x  yg 0 let dA-g denote the distance between the projection of the center of the airborne node trajectory and the ground node 2 


Now the derivative of 0 with respect to dA g is given by dA  Xag Ya Yg 1 3 Similarly let dA,_ j denote the Euclidean distance between the trajectory centers of two airborne nodes i and j We assume that information can be transmitted over a communication link at B bits per second Assuming an airborne node flies at a fixed elevation z at any time instant it can communicate with any ground node located within a disc of radius Rgnd  zrradio-Z2 centered at the point on the ground vertically below the airborne node We refer to this disc as the ground footprint of an airborne node Please refer to Figure 2 for an illustration of the above notation 3 MISSION PLANNING In this section we discuss various scenarios involving the problem of optimal deployment of the airborne network to provide coverage to a set of given ground nodes In order to do this we first analyze how the average quality of a communication link varies with the distance between two nodes Communication link quality Air-ground communication link In this section we quantify the quality of an air-ground upload link using the maximum data upload capacity metric Let us consider a ground node Figure 2 Instantaneous coverage footprint of an airborne node flying in a circular trajectory at a constant elevation The effective capacity offered to node A is instantaneous wireless channel capacity averaged over one time period of the airborne node g and an airborne node moving along a circular trajectory centered at A as shown in Figure 2 It follows from the figure that the amount of time the ground node can communicate with the airborne node is 2r0/s where r is the radius of the loitering trajectory s is the speed of the airborne node and 0 is given by d2_  r2 Rg2 A~~gnd 0  arccos 2rdA-g 2 d A_9  Rgnd r2 Ar _ 5 2rdA-9 The above expression is non-positive for all values of dA g if Rgnd  r Under this condition the amount of time the air-ground link is active decreases with increasing values of dA g Also if the distance dA g is less than or equal to Rgnd r then there exists a air-ground link for all time On the contrary if dA g  Rgnd  r then the air-ground link never exists Let us now compute the average capacity of an air-ground communication link We assume that the ground node 9 in Figure 2 generates bits at a constant rate C bits per second and that it has a finite buffer The ground node can upload bits to the airborne node only when the air-ground link is active Therefore to prevent the finite ground node buffer from overflowing the number of bits generated by the ground nodes in one time period should be less than the number uploaded when the air-ground link is active This implies 2w7r 20Or C  B 4 s s Therefore the maximum data upload capacity of a ground node Cmax is given by B  From Equation 3 for Rgnd  r 0 is a decreasing function of dA g This in turn implies that Cmax is a decreasing function of dA g Thus the closer a trajectory center is to a ground node the higher is the maximum data upload capacity For the rest of this paper we assume that the condition Rgnd  r always holds Air-air communication link In this section we introduce a metric to quantify the quality of an air-air communication link which we term as the link activity percentage Let Ai Aj be the centers of the circular trajectories of two airborne nodes Let us assume that the two trajectories have the same radius r and the two aircraft have identical ground footprint Rgnd and speed s Let wij be the product of their angular velocities and let Oij be the relative phase The activity percentage of the link i j denoted by actij sgn\(wij Oij is defined as the fraction of the time period 2w7r/s during which the distance between the two aircraft is less than rradio Using the above definition we can also characterize the airair link quality that is dependent only on the distance between the centers of the loiter orbits of the aircrafts rsep and not on their angular velocities and relative phases This is the worstcase link activity percentage and is given by min actij sgn\(wij Oij 5 sgn\(wij Oijc[0,27 3 i.e 


Figure 3 Illustration of circular trajectories of two airborne nodes centered at Ai Aj The distance between two fixed points p and P2 increases with increase in dA Aj compare and dp,1P2 and dA A in the top and bottom figures The relation between the worst-case link activity percentage and rsep is characterized by the following lemma Lemma 3 1 min actij sgn\(ij  Oij  sgn wij c{f 1 1 Oijc O 2w Ground coverage optimization We now discuss various scenarios related to optimization of airborne trajectories for maximizing the ground coverage Scenario 1 Unspecified ground node locations Consider the situation where an airborne network comprising of N airborne nodes has to be deployed to provide coverage to ground nodes that are distributed uniformly over a region D C R2 Let T  V 8 be a connected topology where V is the set of airborne nodes and S represent communication links between airborne nodes For a given deployment scenario S is the minimal set of airborne links that must have a desired worst-case link activity percentage for the entire duration of the deployment of the airborne network Since there is no explicit information on the locations of the ground nodes in this scenario we wish to spread out the airborne nodes over the region D One approach to achieve this is to maximize the variance of the inter-aircraft distances The corresponding following optimization problem is as follows maximize{f1,A 2Z Al2  Al I E dAi Aj ij 6 subject to Ai rASep Vij C S Ai c D A=D 7 8 9 is a decreasing function of d4_ J Proof From Equation 5 the lemma is true if actij sgn\(ij  Oij is a decreasing function of dAi j for any given sgn\(wij and ij This follows directly from the observation that if we fix the location of two points P1 P2 on the two trajectories then the distance between them increases strictly as dA j increases see Figure 3 U The above lemma implies that by choosing a certain value of rsep one can guarantee a certain link quality irrespective of the choice of the relative phases It has been observed in earlier research 6 that the relative phases of the airborne nodes have a significant effect on air-air link quality and thus on routing protocol performance In what follows we will use constraints of the form dA Aj _ rsep to guarantee air-air link quality Notice that the worst-case link activity percentage is also representative of the maximum delay that an incoming packet may experience at any node Intuitively speaking the amount of time that a packet may have to wait before being transmitted depends on the time for which the link is inactive We believe that this measure can be useful in designing networks for delay-tolerant applications Also for a given network quantities such as the buffer size required at any node can be computed using the same measure where Ai's are the locations of the centers of trajectories of airborne nodes A is the centroid of the trajectory centers and D is the centroid of the region D Note eqn 7 constrains the centers of trajectories of airborne nodes so that the air-air communication link has a worst-case link activity percentage corresponding to rsep Remrark 3.2 If the airborne nodes fly in phase and rsep  rradio then eqn 7 guarantees persistent communication link between airborne nodes at all times Under the constraint that topology IT is connected the objective function in Equation 6 is always bounded Also note that the objective function and the constraints are convex but since this is a maximization problem the solution will lie on the boundary of constraint set There are no guaranteed methods to maximize a convex function under convex constraints A problem similar to 6 has been solved in 10 using semidefinite programming for maximum variance unfolding We adopt a similar approach as described in the following We change the optimization variables to the elements of Gram matrix 11 associated with the vectors A1,A2  AN The corresponding Gram matrix is given by AC A A where A A1lA2  AN 10 4 


so that Cij  A[TAj Therefore we can write dA Cii  jj-2/ij 11 Without loss of generality we can assume that the centroid of the domain D is at the origin Under this assumption constraint 9 becomes N 1 Ai  0 where 0 is the column vector of zeros In terms of the Gram matrix the constraint becomes Ei j Zij  0 as shown in 10 Also the objective function Eij dAiAj turns out to be the sum of eigenvalues of the Gram matrix IC which is defined to be the trace of the matrix denoted by Tr\(IC Problem 6 can now be posed as a semi-definite program SDP 11 as follows maximize Tr\(IC 12 subject to Cii  Cjj2/Cij rSep Vij C S  C  0 i,j 13 14 15 where the optimization variables are the elements of IC Constraint 15 implies that IC is a positive semi-definite matrix as it is an inner-product matrix We have used YALMIP 12 to solve the above semi-definite program Note that the transformation from points in Euclidean space to elements of Gram matrix preserves the inter-node distances and angles but dimensionality information is lost In other words the information that Ai eR 2is not preserved Now we describe a technique to convert the optimal Gram matrix solution to N vectors in R2 If the optimal solution lies in a higher dimension this technique will only give the projections of the optimal vectors on R2 Let Co,pt denote the optimal solution to 12 know that Copt is a real Hermitian matrix therefore by the spectral theorem for Hermitian matrices 13 we know that there exists a real orthogonal matrix F and a real diagonal matrix A such that opt  FAFT 16 The diagonal entries of A are the eigenvalues of kCopt Now since opt is positive semi-definite one can compute A Also let A be such that the eigenvalues are arranged in ascending order with A\(N N being the largest We now rewrite equation 16 as The operation of choosing the last two entries of every column of B is essentially taking the projection of the solution obtained by solving the SDP onto R 2 There is a certain class T of the topology graphs 7 for which the first N 2 entries of all the columns of B turn out to be zero This means that the N solution point gotten by solving the SDP in equation 12 lie on the same plane A simple cycle and a tree are trivial members of the class T but from the example below it is evident that the class T of topology graphs includes more kinds of graphs Example 1 Imagine we have to spread out 5 airborne nodes over R 2 Let the topology T be given by the following topology adjacency matrix 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 O 1 0 1 0 O 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 0i 13 18 With rsep  200 nautical miles we first solve the SDP in equation 12 and then compute vectors in R 5 columns of B It turns out that for the given topology all these lie on the same plane The solution in shown in Figure 4\(a Note that the links in the given topology 18 are stretched to the value rSep Also if the input is a ring topology the optimal locations are again in R 2 with the locations as shown in Figure 4\(b Complete characterization of the class T is an avenue of future work 200 150 ___---2 3 200 200 50 200 S2pO 100 2 150 t 20 3 4 a topology in example I 150 100 50 0 50 100 150 X loction b ring topology Figure 4 Spreading out airborne nodes under different topology constraints Circles represent the optimal locations of the airborne trajectory centers The line segments between trajectory centers represent the links corresponding to the input topology 7 The numeric values alongside the line segments represent the distances between the corresponding aircraft centers opt  BBT 17 where the columns of B  FA are N vectors in RN whose Gram matrix is opt In order to get N vectors in R 2 we choose the last two entries of each column vector Scenario 2 Fair coverage of multiple ground nodes using one airborne node Let Q1 92   gM be the locations of the ground nodes Let us now solve the problem of placing a single airborne node A to provide fair coverage to all ground nodes In other words we would like to solve the following 5 3 150 100 100 200 50 Q00o c 50 P 0I 200 2 50 200 100 I/A 150 


optimization problem maximizeA min~a 9 iC{1,2...M max 19 where Cmax is the maximum data upload capacity offered to the ith ground node Now consider a different optimization problem minimizeA max dAsg 20 ief 1,2 MI Note that 20 is a convex optimization problem We will now prove that the optimal airborne node location for 20 is the optimal one for 19 Lemmna 3.3 Let A be the optimal airborne node location for problem 20 then it is also the optimal airborne node location for problem 19 Proof Let Cmax f d g Since f  is a monotonically decreasing function therefore we have iem 1,2 Ml CMax\(A 21 for all values of A Also from optimality of A for problem 20 max dA_ g max dA4_gs iC{1,2 in the optimization problem Incorporating the relative phase in the optimization is another avenue of future research 6 f max d,4-g ic 1,2  MI M iC{1,2 M Example 2 Consider 4 ground nodes located at g1  160,375 92  260,360 93  560,525 and 94  580 280 The values are in nautical miles The first three ground nodes are locations of nodes 16 17 and 18 in the generic airborne network scenario discussed in 1 and shown in figure 1 We have added a forth dummy ground node to illustrate the concept Node 92 lies inside the triangle formed by nodes 9i 93 and 94 therefore upon solving problem 20 the optimal airborne node location turns out to be the circumcenter of the triangle formed by the nodes gj 93 and 94 If we change the dummy node to 94  360 500 then the optimal airborne location turns out to be the midpoint of the line between g and 93 Thus the optimal solution of problem 20 is the center of the minimum circle that inscribes all ground nodes In the following section we look at the scenario where we have multiple airborne nodes Scenario 3 Fair coverage of multiple ground nodes using multiple airborne nodes In this section we solve the problem of providing fair coverage to multiple ground nodes using multiple airborne nodes Formally the optimization problem can be stated as follows maximize{f1,...,Ai minm C max 26 subject to 22 dA,-Aj K rsep for all i j C S 27 Again from monotonicity of f  f max dM}d Ag5  fi,max d>*-gi 23 Substituting eqn 21 in the equation above we get min Cax A minM Cax  24 ief{1,2  MI a ief{1,2 m axA This implies that the airborne node location A attain the optimal in problem 19 v As already mentioned problem 20 is a convex optimization problem Note that if maxdgsigj  2\(Rgnd r i,j As before here S is the minimal set of communication links that we desire in the airborne network and Cmax is the maximum upload capacity at node i due to one or more airborne nodes It is understood that if at any given time instant a ground node is covered by more than one airborne node then the instantaneous maximum upload capacity is the same as that offered by any one airborne node The term Cmax depends not only on the points  Al  AN but also on the relative phases between the aircrafts One way to remove the dependence on the relative phase is to pose the following relaxed problem maximize{1 AN  minM max Cmax 28 subject to 25 dA j K rsep for all i j C S 29 then the solution to problem 19 is always zero for all values of the airborne node location This is because the farthest an airborne node can provide a non-zero Cmax is Rgnd  r thus one of the ground nodes is bound to be left out If the maximum is less than 2\(Rgnd  r then the solution A turns out to be the center of the minimum radius circle that encloses all the ground nodes This is illustrated in Example 2 Here CtJax is the maximum upload capacity at node i due to airborne node j The maximization problem in Equation 28 is analogous to the maximization problem in Equation 19 where maxje{1 N Cmiax and  Al   AN in the former problem correspond to Ci ax and A in the latter respectively 1Throughout this paper we assume that the relative phases between the aircrafts is not a design variable 


1  Ml Vj Therefore from Lemma 3.3 we know that the previous problem is equivalent to the following minimize{f A,...,AI max min dA3 gM 30 iC{f1,...,M jef{1,...,N subject to dAi Aj _ rsep for all i,j S E 31 This problem is equivalent to the continuous p-center problem 14 but with the connectivity constraints between the centers We make following observation regarding the complexity of the problem Notice that the problem in Equation 32 is the continuous pcenter problem which is NP hard We therefore look at the following two cases separately 1 Number of airborne nodes greater than or equal to the number of ground nodes In this case the solution to the first problem is obtained trivially by assigning M airborne nodes to the M ground node locations The locations of the remaining N M airborne nodes are unconstrained Next we solve the following convex problem minimize{1,,...,iA max d4 g  35 Proposition 3.4 The optimization problem described in Equations 30 and 31 is NP hard Proof Let M  N Let AiPt be the optimal location of the center of the ith trajectory for the unconstrained problem Also let Si be the set of ground nodes that have A Pt as the nearest trajectory center where i C  1 N Then Ai\260Pt must lie at the circumcenter of the points in Si But the cicumcenter of the points in Si belongs to the convex hull of Si Also since Si C  1 gM the convex hull of Si is a subset of the convex hull of 1 GM Thus A4opt A o pt is a subset of the convex hull of Q  Q g The NP hardness of the constrained problem therefore follows from the observation that with rsep  diameter{f 1 QM  the problem reduces to the unconstrained problem which in turn is the standard continuous pcenter problem which is known to be NP hard 14 U Since the problem is NP hard we now present a heuristic to solve the above problem The heuristic consists of two stages In the first stage we solve the following unconstrained optimization problem minimize{f1,A A max min dA3 gM 32 ATiC 1,...,M jC{f1,...,N Let A  A be the optimal locations of the airborne nodes obtained after solving the above problem In the second stage we solve the following problem minimize A  max dA O Vi Ei,j kij  1 43 Equation 38 describes the constraints in Equation 36 Equation 39 specifies the distances between all pairs of ground nodes Since the ground node locations are known so are the distances Note that for i C 1  M the left hand side of Equation 40 is dA ig,i Intuitively speaking by minimizing the variable t we are minimizing the upper bound on dA g which is equal to maxiC M dA-g A rigorous of the above reformulation can be found in 11 For a discussion on the remaining solution procedure please refer to Scenario 1 earlier in the section Figure 6 shows another scenario but now with five airborne nodes In this one 7  N  M Kii  K:jj-2K:ij  t Vi E  N  A 33 subject to dAi i_  rsep for all i,j S 8 34 Lemma 3.5 Convexity of the optimization problem The constrained optimization problem described in Equations 33 and 34 is a convex optimization problem Note that the constraints dA AjK rsep for all i j describe a convex set The fact that maxiC{1,...,N dAiA is a convex function of Al AN can be easily shown using the triangle inequality for metric spaces subject to dA,-Aj K rsep for all i j C ES 36 Two example scenarios are discussed as follows In the first scenario we have four ground and four airborne nodes The locations of the ground nodes are as depicted by the asterisks in Figure 5 The airborne network topology is a ring The constant rsep is 200 nautical miles The blue solid lines in Figure 5 denote communication links between the airborne nodes The dashed lines represent the communication links between the airborne and ground nodes The numeric values represent distances for the corresponding links To obtain the optimal locations of the airborne trajectory centers we first relax the problem and pose it as a semi-definite program Notice that this problem is a convex optimization problem and can be solved even if the objective function is not differentiable using sub-gradient methods However our heuristic involving SDP has also been observed to give optimal solutions The semi-definite program is as follows First let us define the augmented vector X  Al  4ANQ1    GM and let C  XTX The optimization problem in Equations 35 and 36 can be written as min t 37 subject to K:ii  K:jj-21 ij  rp Vi j E K:ii  K:jj-2Kij  dgi gj Vi j E N  1 j IC O 38 39 40 41 42 E N  MI   


of the nodes is not assigned to any ground node as described earlier The topology for airborne network is again a ring Notice that the communication links between airborne and ground nodes are shorter now signifying greater upload capacity This is due to the fact that the extra airborne node allows for the network to spread out more and hence get closer to the ground nodes 4 Ground nodes 4 Airborne nodes Ix 32 3464 250 P 200 f68 3215 150 49~2218 100 501541 98 99 74 52 0632 1 Choose uniformly and randomly N cluster centers 2 Assign each ground node to the cluster center that is nearest to it Let Qcl  c be the ground nodes assigned to the cth cluster 3 For each cluster say c compute the new cluster center as k  Argmin max dA-gm i A i{fci  I 44 4 Repeat the above steps till the locations of the cluster centers do not change beyond a certain threshold Let A AN be the cluster centers kl  kN obtained as the output of the algorithm Next the convex optimization problem in Equations 33 and 34 is solved to obtain the desired airborne trajectory centers   760~53 52 0632 200 150 100 50 0 50 100 150 x Figure 5 Coverage using multiple airborne nodes when locations of ground nodes are known Here we have 4 ground nodes denoted by s and 4 airborne nodes denoted by circles The axes represent x,y lLocations on a 2 D plane The optimal placement results in each airborne node providing coverage to a unique ground node while maintaining a connected topology between themselves 1-76-77-72142265 150 100 50 0 x 39 5904 50 100 Figure 6 In thLs case there is an extra airborne node The op timal placement in this case results in higher maximum data upload capacity to each ground node Note that one airborne node approximately at 60,130 acts purely as a relay 2 Number of ground nodes greater than the number of airborne nodes In this case the problem in general is NP hard An efficient and popular method of solving this problem is a heuristic similar to the k-means clustering algorithm described as follows 4 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK Conclusions In this paper we have studied the placement planning problem of the airborne network We first define two metrics maximum data upload capacity for air-ground links and worst case link activity percentage for air-air links We have shown that the maximum data upload capacity is a measure of the coverage provided to a single ground node and the worst case link activity percentage for a single air-air link is a decreasing function of the distance between the centers of the loiter orbits of the airborne nodes We have also discussed how this measure is useful in the design of networks for delay-tolerant applications This paper considers three practically interesting scenarios for the deployment of the airborne network backbone where the purpose of the airborne network is to provide coverage to the ground nodes while maintaining a certain degree of reliability and connectivity in the inter-airborne node topol8 250 200 7.3458 46.9364 Figure 7 A snapshot of the optimal coverage of 4 ground nodes using 5 airborne nodes The rings at the top indicate the loiter orbits of the airborne nodes the shaded circles on the ground indicate their respective instantaneous coverage disk and the fixed ground node positions are indicated by s 150  100 _ 50 24.9954 200 4 Ground nodes 5 Airborne nodes 15.8688 


ogy Results of this paper can be directly useful to the Objective Gateway program of the Air Force where several Battlefield Airborne Communication Nodes BACNs and their ground counterparts the Rapid Attack Information Dissemination Execution Relay RAIDERs The goal of the Objective Gateway program is to provide networking technology to the forward edge of the battlefield and create a high-capacity airborne communication backbone Future Work This paper is the first step towards developing a mission planning toolbox for the airborne network deployment problem A few further research directions could be accounting for link disruptions due to airborne platform banking expanding the optimization search space to include non-circular or tilted loiter orbits accounting for terrain effects providing coverage to mobile airborne nodes that are involved in a mission tactical edge networks planning so as to optimally use satellite communication when certain airborne links are inactive developing multiple tiers of airborne backbones located at different elevations and incorporating topology control such that the airborne nodes can change power levels thus radio range during periods where airborne topology is sparse ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors would like to thank Maneesh Varshney and Prof Mario Gerla for insightful discussions on the subject matter of this paper This work was supported under Air Force phase I SBIR grant number FA8750-07-C-0158 7 K Schroth and D Kiwior Interdomain Routing for Mobile Nodes Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2007 to appear 8 E G I D Kiwior and S V Pizzi Quality of Service QoS Sensitivity for the OSPF Protocol in the Airborne Networking Environment Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 9 L V J Cooley 0 Huang and S McGarry Mobile Airborne Networking Experience with Paul Revere Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 10 K Q Weinberger and L K Saul Unsupervised Learning of Image Manifolds by Semidefinite Programming International Journal of Computer Vision vol 70 no 1 pp 77-90 2006 11 S Boyd and L Vandenberghe Convex Optimization Cambridge University Press 2006 12 J Lfberg Yalmip A toolbox for modeling and optimization in MATLAB in Proceedings of the CACSD Conference Taipei Taiwan 2004 Online Available http://control.ee.ethz.ch joloef/yalmip.php 13 R A Horn and C R Johnson Matrix Analysis Cambridge University Press 1985 14 N Megiddo and A Tamir New results on the complexity of p-center problems SIAM Journal on Computing vol 12 no 4 pp 751-758 November 1983 REFERENCES 1 T A Kostas and T G Macdonald A Methodology for Evaluating and Planning Future Airborne Networks Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2004 2 R Ramirez Link Management in the Air Force Airborne Network Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 3 Y Wang and Y J Zhao Fundamental Issues in Systematic Design of Airborne Networks for Aviation Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference 2006 4 B Epstein and V Mehta Free Space Optical Communications Routing Performance in Highly Dynamic Airspace Environment Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference 2004 5 M Dehkordi K Chandrashekhar and J S Baras A placement algorithm for enhanced connectivity and reliability in wireless ad-hoc networks in Conference on Future Networking Technologies CoNEXT Toulouse France October 2005 6 D Kiwior and L Lam Routing Protocol Performance over Intermittent Links Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2007 to appear 9 


 10 D e L one  W  H  a n d Mc L e a n E.R   T he D e L one a nd McLean Model of Information Systems Success: A Ten-Year Update Journal of Management Information Systems Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 9-30, 2003 11 D e nz i n N  K  a nd L i nc o l n, Y  S Handbook of Qualitative Research Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA 1994 1 Di n een  B  L i n g  J  A s h  S  an d Del V ecch i o  D   Aesthetic properties and message customisation Navigating the dark side of web recruitment  Journal of Applied Psychology Vol. 92, No. 2, pp. 356-372 2007 13 Fe l d m a n, D  a nd K l a a s B Inte rne t j o b h unti n g  A  field study of applicant experiences with online recruitment Human Resource Management Vol. 41 No. 2, pp. 175-201, 2002 14 G a la nk i, E The decision to recruit online: A descriptive study  Career Development International  Vol. 7, No. 4, 2002 1 G u eu t a l  H G  an d S t on e D  L    The Brave New World of eHR: Human resources management in the digital age Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, 2005 16 H a da y a  P  a nd Et hie r J  Online purchasing of simple goods: the impact of e-service quality as provided by electronic commerce functionalities  Proceedings of the 41 st Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2008 1 G r  n r oo s C   Service Management and Marketing Customer Management in Service Competition 3rd Edition, Wiley & Sons, Chichester, 2007 18 Ho llow a y  B.B. a nd Be a tty S.E Satisfiers and Dissatisfiers in the Online Environment: A Critical Incident Assessment  Journal of Service Research  Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 347-364, 2008 1 Kl ei n H K and M y ers M  D  A S e t o f P r i n ci p l es for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems MIS Quarterly Vol 23, No. 1, pp. 67-93, 1999 20 Kri ppe nd orf f  K Reliability in content analysis some common misconceptions and recommendations  Human Communication Research Vol. 30, pp. 411433, 2004 21 L e e  I The evolution of e-recruiting: A content analysis of Fortune 100 career web sites  Journal of Electronic Commerce in Organizations Vol. 3, No. 3 pp. 57-68, 2005 22 Le e  T W   Using qualitative methods in organizational research Sage, Thousand Oaks, 1999 2 Ngw e n g a m a O K and A  S  L ee  Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning  MIS Quarterly  Vol. 21, pp. 145 167, 1997 2 L i even s F  an d Harris  M   Research o n I n tern et  recruiting and testing: current status and future directions, In: Cooper, C., Robertson, I. \(Eds International Review of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Vol. 18, pp. 131-165, 2003 25 L i n, C S. a nd W u  S Ex pl oring t h e im pa c t of on line  service quality on portal site usage Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2002 26 Mc Cu ne J  C Good help is hard to find  Management Review Vol. 86, No. 6, pp. 30-31, 1997 27  Mile s   M.B. a nd H ube rm an, A  M Qualitative data analysis: An expanded sourcebook Thousand Oaks CA, Sage, 1994 28  P a rasu ram a n  A Zeith am l, V  A  an d Mal h o t ra A ES-Qual: A Multiple-Item Scale for Assessing Electronic Service Quality Journal of Service Research Vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 213-233, 2005 29 P a rry  E Drivers of the adoption of online recruitment an analysis using diffurion of innovation theory In Bondarouk, T.V., Ruël, H.J.M. \(Eds\E-HRM in theory and practice. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2008 30 a tto n  M.Q  Qualitative research and evaluation methods Thousand Oaks, CA, Sage, 2002 31 R odg e r s  W N e g a s h S. a n d Suk  K  The moderating effect of online experience on the antecedents and consequences of online satisfaction  Psychology Marketing Vol. 22, No. 4, pp. 313-331, 2005 32 R o w l e y J An Analysis of the E-Service Literature Towards a Research Agenda  Internet Research Vol 16, No. 13, pp. 339-359, 2006 3 Ru st  R T  an d Kann an   P  K   E-Service: A New Paradigm for Business in the Electronic Environment  Communications of the ACM Vol. 46, No. 5, pp. 3742. 2003 34  Sa c h a f P  a n d Oltm a nn, S M Equality and e-service quality  Proceedings of the 40 st Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2007 35 Sa n t os, J E-service quality A model of virtual service quality dimensions  Managing Service Quality Vol.13, No. 3, pp. 233-246, 2003 3  S m i t h  A  D an d Rup p W  T    Managerial challenges of e-recruiting  Online Information Review Vol. 28 No. 1, pp. 61-74, 2004 37 St one D  L Sto n e Rom e r o, E. F  a nd L u k a s z e w s k i  K Factors affecting the acceptance and effectiveness of electronic human resource systems  Human Resource Management Review Vol. 16, No. 2, pp 229-244, 2006 38 T ong J D u f f y  V Cros s  G  T s ung F. a nd Y e n, B Evaluating the industrial ergonomics of service quality for online recruitment websites  International  Journal of Industrial Ergonomics Vol. 35, pp. 697711, 2005 39  Va n Ma a n e n J  A n End of I nnoc e n c e T h e Ethnography of Ethnography," In: Representation in Ethnography, J. Van Maanen \(ed.\ge, Thousand Oaks, CA, pp. 1-35, 1995 40 W o lf inba rg e r M. a nd G ill y  M.C eTailQ Dimensionalizing, measuring and predicting etail quality  Journal of Retailing Vol. 79, No. 3, pp. 183198, 2003 41 W o lte rs M The Effectiveness of job board Internet Recruitment Proceedings of the First European Academic Workshop on e-HRM, The Netherlands 2006 4 Z u sm an  R an d L a n d i s R   Applicant preferences for web-based versus traditional job posting  Computers in Human Behaviour Vol. 18, pp. 285-296, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Alan Little is the MEDLI Project Manager at NASA's Langley Research Center He previously served on a variety of earth remote sensing missions and recently served as the NASA-CNES interface manager and the payload assembly integration and test manager on the joint NASAICNES CALIPSO Mission that was launched in April 2006 He has a MS in Optics from the University of Rochester Neil Cheatwood earned B.S MS and Ph.D degrees in aerospace engineering from NC State University He has played key roles in a number of NASA's planetary atmospheric flight programs and is a nationally recognized expert in aerosciences and flight mechanics for planetary entry systems He is currently serving as the Hypersonics Project Scientist for the Fundamental Aeronautics Program with NASA's ARMD Dr Cheatwood is also the Principle Investigator for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project In recent years he led NASA LaRC efforts to develop inflatable aeroshell technologies He served as CoInvestigator to Claude Graves of NASA JSC on the NASA ESMD ESR&T Inflatable Aeroshell and TPS Development IA TD Project He served as the Principle Investigator for NASA LaRCs Inflatable Reentry Vehicle Experiment IRVE as well as the follow-on Program to Advance Inflatable Decelerators for Atmospheric Entry PAI-DAE Dr Cheatwood was responsible for aerodynamic databases of Stardust Mars Microprobe Genesis and Mars Exploration Rovers He has also contributed to the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Sample Return flight projects Dr Cheatwood is an AIAA Associate Fellow and the principle author or co-author of 60 technical publications in the fields of fluid dynamics atmospheric entry and systems engineering Jeff Herath serves as the Lead Systems Engineer and Chief Engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI He also serves as the Assistant Head of the Atmospheric Flight and Entry Systems Branch AFESB to plan direct and coordinate Branch activities in the areas offlight and entry systems research and development Mr Herath previously was the Acting Assistant Branch Head for Electronic Systems and served as the branch leadfor new business activities proposals and their development He was also the Principal Investigator PI for the Radiation Tolerant Intelligent Memory Stack RTIMS Project which successfully developed and demonstrated an in-flight reconfigurable radiation tolerant stacked memory array He co-founded Vianix LC a company developing and licensing voice compression technology and served as its Chief Technology Officer He developed the company's voice compression technology and was responsible for all research  development engineering personnel and production efforts He has 6 patents As Manager of Hardware Development at Arc Second Inc he designed and built a unique laser based three-dimensional positioning system which opened new markets for the company At E-Systems he successfully completed several military avionics programs and payload that were classified and consisted of system box and board level designs Michelle Munk has been a NASA employee for nearly 20 years first at the Johnson Space Center then at the Langley Research Center She has been involved in Mars advanced mission studies for many years both robotic and human contributing interplanetary trajectory analysis and entry and descent analysis She has managed the delivery of International Space Station hardware and was on the Mars Odyssey aerobraking operations team In 2002 Ms Munk accepted a detail assignment to become the Lead Engineer for Aerocapture Technology Development under In-Space Propulsion at Marshall Space Flight Center She managed the technical work of ISP Aerocapture for nearly 5 years before becoming the Project Area Manager and returning to Langley in 2007 Ms Munk is also a subsystem leadfor the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project and contributes to other NASA projects developing entry system technologies She has a BSAE from Virginia Tech and completed graduate coursework at the University of Houston Frank Novak is an Assistant Branch Head for Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA He serves as the MEDLI Subsystem Manager for the Sensor Support Electronics SSE system Mr Novak has over 20 years of experience in the design development and test of spaceflight electronics He served as the lead development manager for the EVA IR Camera Project lead engineer for the visible imager for the GIFTS project lead electronics engineer for the pointing spectrometer for the Mars ARES project lead integration and test engineer for the SAGE III project and lead engineer for the interface adaptor module for SAGE III He earned a BS in Physics from Christopher Newport University in 1999 11 


Ed Martinez is a Project Manager/Lead Scientist/Project Engineer with 20 years experience in the aerospace and electromechanical field He is responsible for leading the Thermal Protection System TPS instrumentation programs for the NASA Ames Research Center As Project Manager he simultaneously managed multiple teams of scientists engineers and engineering technicians responsible for TPS projects including test analysis and technology advancement As Lead Scientist he was engaged in the characterization and operations of the world's largest shock tube This facility produced simultaneous overpressure and thermal environments at shock speeds up to Mach 5 As a Project Engineer his experience included project initiation coordination and providing design and instrument criteria for operating multi-100 million dollar DoD facilities Mr Martinez also managed data handling performed analysis reporting of test results and maintained technical proficiency in shockwave phenomenology 12 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


