by Distributed Learning Automata Engineering Department Industrial Computing Dept. Faculty of Information Science and Technology Islamic Azad University, Hamedan Branch National University of Malaysia Hamedan, Iran 43600 Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia Riza Sulaiman Industrial Computing Dept., Faculty of Information Science and Technology National University of Malaysia 43600 Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia Abstract - Predict the customer behavior in the shopping is important from two aspects: one is from the perspective of goods suppliers and the other from shop owners. Both groups want to know that their customers interest in which goods and buy which sequence of the goods. In the this paper we provide a way in finding sequences of the customers shopping, which in comparison with the previous methods, it works better and we demonstrate that it could obtain sequences of the customers shopping in shorter time than the previous methods. Finding of the sequences is very essential for suppliers of goods and shop owners and will lead to an increase in annual profit. In this article, we provide a method of finding two-member and higher sequences by distributed learning automata; its costs is lower than the other methods. We examined it on online basket data of costumer shopping and it is clear that the results are much better Keywords: Customer, Predict, Learning Automata, Shopping Sequence Pattern I.    INTRODUCTION Prediction of customers behavior in shopping is one of the important problems for suppliers of goods and shop owners The latter group will change manner of arrangements of goods in their shops, manner of goods order, manner of warehousing and marketing by these information. Suppliers of goods and shop owners, by the usage of the information about the fact that customers have bought which products in sequence, could gain a lot of profits by providing and arranging of them in the shelves When a customer refer to a shop, he may found some of the necessary categories very hard, or he could not found that, or he may forgot what is the most necessary, but if behavior and manner of the customers shopping have been studied, it will lead suppliers of goods and shop owners to arrange their 


orders in accordance with requests of the customers and the most important fact that they could arrange goods in a way that the customers could follow goods in sequence. This will cause the customers not to be confused in finding their considered products, they will be able to find them fast and/or in some cases they could buy some goods, which are in the sequence of shopping and profited more the owners. So, study and obtain sequences of goods shopping - which could be in two-member sequences or higher- is an essential matter and one of the important parameters in profitability of a firm or shop owners. For example, buying a computer, then its desk and game CDs is a sequence in database of a store. This is relates to sequence pattern mining, which some works were done previously on them. We will consider the previous works in this field, as follows; and then examine the suggested method, and finally we will examine the suggested method and previous methods on an online database of Mushroom and basket data of customers shopping and demonstrate that the suggested method is working better than the previous ones and could find a sequence of iterations of data set in shorter time II. Efficient and Scaleable Methods of sequence pattern mining and Literature Review Concept of sequence pattern mining was considered in transaction databases for investigating the information for the first time [1]. Suppose that I = {i1, i2, , im} was set of all of the items in a transaction database, such as D. item set with k-item  that includes k items of I set, will be alternative, only if number of available transactions in D consists of  was not lower than |D|. In this definition  is a threshold limit that is determined by the user, which is called minimum support and D| is the number of current transactions in D is a number between 0 and 1, which demonstrates a percentage of D transactions that consists of ; Including means that a transaction has all of the available items in Agrawal, 1994, observes an interesting property, named Apriori, in alternative items set for the first time [2 According to this property, a set of k-items is alternative only when all of its items subsets were alternative. Progress of using alternative items of k-items will continues in producing candidates of \(k+1 alternation test of them with a complete scanning on 


transaction database, up to derivation of all of alternative items available in transaction database. This method is constitution of Apriori [2] algorithm and its substitution [3 which is provided by Mannila After introducing of Apriori, lots of studies and efforts were done for improving its efficiency and generalization Park -1995 tries to use hashing technique for improving its efficiency [5]. In the same year, Savasere uses blocking method in improving the algorithm. In this method, the transaction base is categorized to non-overlapping sections by Predict the customer behavior in the shopping ma.esmaeilpour@gmail.com va.naderifar@gmail.com rs@ftsm.ukm.my Mansour Esmaeilpour Vahideh Naderifar 978-1-4244-6716-7/10/$26.00  2010 IEEE 1668 distinguishing some of the big alternative item sets with two scanning of transaction database in accordance with investigated great item sets, and the results of separate scanning of sections are integrated. Toivonen, 1996 uses sampling for improving efficiency of Apriori [6]. In 1997, a method for dynamic counting of item sets \(DIC by Brin [7]. In this method, it is tried not to consider a separate scanning for testing alternation or non-alternation of k-items candidates, but tries to distinguish alternation of more candidates \(with whatever length transaction database, thus leads to decrease of number of scanning of the transaction database in Apriori algorithm By overlapping in counting of number of different sizes patterns, DIC algorithm may cause decreasing in number of scanning of the transaction database. Increasing exploration is another improving in Apriori, which is done in 1996, by Cheung [8]. Algorithms, which were available before providing this method, assumed the transaction database without changing and used alternative item sets as well as investigated association rules without any change Other efforts that are done for improving of Apriori, are based on parallelization of investigation algorithms. These methods are as follows: provided Method by Park in 1995 [9 Agrawal Method in 1996 [10], Cheung Method in 1996 [11 and Zaki Method in 1997 [12]. Similarity of these methods is removing of Apriori Algorithm from the scope of serial investigation and directing it towards parallel or distributed 


investigation Han introduced a method in 2000, called FP-Growth [15 which investigates a complete set of all of the alternative item sets without producing of candidates. This method was based on divide and conquers Frequency methods were introduced as a substitution or improving of FP-Growth; including primary production-depth of the alternative item sets, which is provided by Agrawal in 2001 [17]. Another method is H-Mine algorithm that is introduced by Pei in 2002 [16]. This method uses investigation of a superstructure in sequence pattern mining. Liu, in 2002-3 considers two methods of making substitution trees [18], and up-bottom and bottom-up measurement of similar trees, which were produced in FP-Growth [19]. Finally, Grahne and Zhu in 2003, provide a usage on the basis of an array of structure of a prefix tree, and apply it for efficient measurement in Pattern Growth method [20 In 2004, Yang introduces analysis of maximum alternative patterns measurement time complexity \(in the worst mode 21]. This analysis demonstrates that this complexity is NP-hard. And finally Ramesh distinguishes linear distribution of set of the alternative item sets and maximum alternative item sets in 2003 [22 The suggested work was done on the basis of learning automata. Then, we will introduce learning automata and its species, and in the nexst part, the suggested approach will be examined III. LEARNING AUTOMATA A learning automata is composed of two parts I- A stochastic automata with number of limited actions II- A stochastic environment. Each action selected by potential environment is assessed and answer is given to a learning automata. Learning automata uses this answer and selects its action for the next stage. Figure 1 shows relationship between learning automata and environment [4 Figure 1. Environment and learning automata and relationship between them A.     Environment Environment can be shown with E= { , , c} which 1, , m} is set of inputs, ={ 1, , m}is set of outputs and c= {c1, c2, , cr} is set of penalty probabilities When has two elements, environment is called P-Model 


1=1 as penalty and 1=0 as reward. In environment of Q-Model, \(n between [0,1] and in S-Model, \(n variable in the range [0,1]. Ci is set of probability of undesirable answer [13]. In a stationary environment, values ci remain unchanged while in non stationary environment, these values change during time learning automata are classified into two groups with variable structure or fixed structure Then we describe variable learning automata structure B.    Variable Learning Automata Variable learning automata is shown with { , , P, T which m,...,1 is set of automata actions m,...,1 is set of automata inputs, PmPP ,...,1 is probability sequence for selection of each one of the actions and   a1 nPnBnTnP  is learning algorithm[13 In this kind of automata, if action ai is selected in stage and receives desirable answer, probability of Pi\(n other probabilities decrease. For undesirable answer probabilities of Pi\(n Any way, changes are made in such a way that sum of Pi\(n remains equal to one. In the bellow we can see an example of learning algorithm in variable learning automata in P-Model 14 The following algorithm is an example of linear learning algorithms in variable automata Desirable answer Pi\(n+1 n n 1 Pj\(n+1 1-a n Undesirable answer Pi\(n+1 1-b n 2 Pj\(n+1 b/r-1 n 1669 Where a is reward parameter and b is penalty parameter and r is number of actions. With regard to values of a and b when a = b, is said, LRP\(Linear Reward Penalty very low than a, is said, LR&P\(Linear Reward Epsilon Penalty and when b equals to zero, is said, LRI\(Linear Reward Inaction  C.   Distributed Learning Automata Distributed Learning Automata is a network of the learning automata which cooperates with each other for problem solution, in this network; colleague learning 


automata, at any time, only one automata is active. Number of the actions which can be done by one automata in DLA equals to number of automata which have connected to his automata Selection of an action by learning automata in this network leads to activation of learning automata connected to learning automata isomorphic with this action [14 On the other hand, selection of an action by learning automata in this network is isomorphic with activation of another learning automaton in this network The model which we consider for DLA network is a graph of which each vertex is a learning automaton. Presence of edge \(LAi, LAj i j action by LAi leads to activation of LAj. Number of actions selected by LAk is shown as k r kkk PPPP ,...,, 21 In this set, value kmP indicates probability of action k ma selection of kma action by LAk leads to activation of LAm-k indicates number of actions which can be performed by LAk automata Figure 2. Distributed Learning Automata with three Learning automata IV. THE PROPOSED METHOD In this part, we will consider the alternative sequence pattern mining in a data set, in which we could extract two-member, three member, ., n-member sequences because it is possible to use from these sequences in the manner of arrangements of goods in stores. Here, obtaining the biggest sequence is not considered, but obtaining each sequence with whatever frequency is important in order that the sequences could be used in the abovementioned categories In this method, the distributed learning automata, p model and LRI learning algorithm with variant actions and reward of 0.5 are used. A learning automata is attributed to each node Each learning automata has a task to do, which is in fact the sequence of the shopping. The task starts with single-items and finishes with n-items. It is done as follows 1 


automata actions \( Threshold is Minimum acceptable amount for each sequence that dependent to support amount 2 shopping set and importing them in random graph 3 4 customers shopping, when import in the random graph will rewards in accordance with relation 1, and amount of the reward will be 0.5; and probabilities of path application or pi will be up dated. All of the sequences imported in the graph and pi will be up dated towards them 5 that its probability of application or pi was less than Threshold = Threshold + a [1 - Threshold] will be deleted deleted edges do not considered as active edges in learning automata. So, these edges won t be used in the next stages and no up dating will be done in their probability of actions and they will be valued by -1 in order that despite of up dating, it will be considered with no effect or -1 6 value of pi \(these edges could be a path, are sequence of a shopping that obtains in each stage of the algorithm, then sequence of 1-member to n-member will obtain 7 purchase set, return to stage 4 After each stage, the obtained graph- which is created according to input sets- will be scanned and those paths that probability of their actions is not less than Threshold = Threshold + a [1 - Threshold], will be sent to output as a k-member set with the most iteration This algorithm will continue for finding the most iteration of shopping list by the customers up to when there were no shopping subsets available. In each iteration, some of the edges of the graph- that starts at first as a graph with onelength paths, and finally after removing of some of the nodes and paths, it finishes with n-length paths- were removed, and in fact the graph is pruning and leads to decrease of the costs and finding shopping sequence than other methods. Thus, the random graph encounters with removal of some of the paths and its domain decreases, and high complexity in obtaining final answer of each stage decreases. By implementation of 


each stage of the algorithm, we could obtain the most iteration in two-member, three-member, , n-member sequences. This algorithm, together with other algorithms was examined in database Mushroom and customers shopping basket data Results of evaluation of the suggested method, associated with other methods, are presented as follows 1670 ALGORITHM DLA_SPM Input: I transaction data set, Threshold, G \(V,E Output: Subset of I each subset that contain of more frequent pattern Begin Construct the DLA from G Init Support; Threshold=1/r r is number of actions For all subset of one members of I do subsets of I is started from one members While \(p>= Threshold p is amount of probability of each actions RewardPath \(Path in G End While End for For i =1 to support do Threshold = Threshold + a [1- Threshold initializing the threshold a is amount of Reward End for For all subset of I do subsets of I is started from two members to n members While \(p>= Threshold p is amount of probability of each actions RewardPath \(Path in G End While Print the each path that p >= Threshold in each iteration we can find the each subset of I that contain of more frequent pattern End for End DLA_SPM Figure 3. Shows the algorithm for sequence pattern mining in random graph via DLA V. EVALUATION of PROPOSED METHOD In the proposed method, distributed learning automata are 


used. A learning automata is attributed to each nodes. In each stage, some of the items were imported to the random graph By importing of each item to the graph, the learning automata will be active and up date its probability of application as a=0.5 in accordance with relation 1; it will continue up to when all of the subsets of the customers shopping set were examined Finally, this method was examined on online database of Mushroom and customers shopping basket data. Mushroom database has 22 fields and 8123 records that states properties of mushroom in different modes and was obtain from the UCI machine learning database  data has 30 fields and 88159 records that contain of 16450 items. This file contains transactions from a Belgian retail store [24]. The present method was implemented for investigation of alternative patterns of a set with n members For implementing of simulation program, programming language of C++ Standard Template Library with 2GB RAM CPU core2Dua 2.00 GHz and windows XP SP/2 operating system. Its results are presented in figures 4, 5 in comparison with other methods. This work was done by different supports and demonstrates better results and efficiency of the suggested method Figure 4. Shows comparison the other method with the proposed method in Mushroom data set Figure 5. Shows comparison the other method with the proposed method in Mushroom data set VI.   CONCLUSION In the present study, distributed learning automata method was examined for sequence pattern mining in a set of sequence data. This method could assist in a great extent to suppliers of goods or shop owners in finding sequence of the customers shopping. We demonstrated that by this method we are able to extract in two-member, three-member n-member that have had the most iteration and provide them to the shop owners for decision making and accurate arrangements of goods in the shelves. It was compared with other methods and its results show higher efficiency of the proposed method than the other ones. Finding of the categories leads to increase of satisfaction of the customers in shopping, increase of the stores profits and decrease of the customers  confusion in finding their necessary products 


REFERENCES 1] Agrawal R, Imielinski T, Swami A \(1993 between sets of items in large databases . In: Proceedings of the 1993ACM-SIGMODinternational conference on management of data SIGMOD 93 2] Agrawal R. and Srikant R. \(1994 rules. In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB 94 pages 487 499, Santiago, Chile 3] Mannila H., Toivonen H., Verkamo AI \(1994 discovering association rules . \(KDD'94 4] Narendra K. S., Thathachar M. A. L., \(1989 introduction", in: Proceedings of the Prentice Hall 5] Park Js, Chen MS, Yu PS \(1995 mining association rules . \(SIGMOD'95 1 10 100 1000 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 Support T im e S ec o n d s FP-Grow th Eclet DLA 1 10 100 1000 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Suppor t T im e S 


ec o n d e FP-Grow th Ec lat DLA 1671 6] Toivonen H \(1996 Proceeding of the 1996 international conference on very large data bases VLDB 96 7] Brin S, Motwani R, Ullman JD, Tsur S \(1997 counting and implication rules for market basket analysis . In Proceeding of the 1997 ACMSIGMOD international conference on management of data \(SIGMOD 97 8] Cheung DW, Han J, Ng V, Wong CY \(1996 association rules in large an incremental updating technique . In Proceeding of the 1996 international conference on data engineering ICDE 96 9] Park JS, Chen MS, Yu PS \(1995 association rules . In: Proceeding of the 4th international conference on information and knowledge management, Baltimore, MD, pp 31-36 10] Agrawal R, Shafer JC \(1996 design, implementation, and experience . IEEE Trans Knowl Data Eng 8:962 969 11] Cheung DW, Han J, Ng V, Fu A, Fu Y \(1996 algorithm for mining association rules . In: Proceeding of the 1996 international conference on parallel and distributed information systems Miami Beach, FL, pp 31 44 12] Zaki MJ, Parthasarathy S, Ogihara M, Li W \(1997 for discovery of association rules .data mining knowl discov,1:343 374 13] Najim K., Poznyak A. S. \(1994 application", in: Proceedings of the Tarrytown, New York: Elsevier Science Publishing Ltd 14] Alipour, M., Meybodi, M.R. \(2005 Problem Using Distributed Learning Automata Proceeding of 10th Annual CSI Computer Conference, Computer Engineering Dep. Iran Telecommunication Research Center. Tehran, Iran. Pp 271-280 15] Han J, Pei J, Yin Y \(2000 generation . In: Proceeding of the 2000 ACM-SIGMOD international conference on management of data \(SIGMOD 00 


16] Pei J., \(2002 PhD Thesis 17] Agarwal R, Aggarwal CC, Prasad VVV \(2001 algorithm for generation of frequent itemsets . Parallel Distribut Comput 61:350 371 18] Liu J, Pan Y, Wang K, Han J \(2002 opportunistic projection . In: Proceeding of the 2002 ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery in databases KDD 02 19] Liu G, Lu H, Lou W, Yu JX \(2003 querying frequent patterns . In: Proceeding of the 2003 ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining KDD 03 20] Grahne G, Zhu J \(2003 frequent itemsets . In: Proceeding of the ICDM 03 international workshop on frequent itemset mining implementations \(FIMI 03 Melbourne, FL, pp 123 132 21] Yang G \(2004 and maximal frequent patterns . In: Proceeding of the 2004 ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery in databases KDD 04 22] Ramesh G, Maniatty WA, Zaki MJ \(2003 distributions in data mining: theory and application . In: Proceeding of the 2003 ACM symposium on principles of database systems PODS 03 23] http://www.ics.uci.edu/~mlearn/MLRepository.html 24] http://www.fimi.cs.helsinki.fi/data/retail.dat 1672 


Judging by common sense, the High threshold is defined as follows: for sections with one lane , if there exist 2 or more cars in 10 meters, then it is a High volume situation. On the other hand, the middle threshold is defined as follows: for sections with one lane, if there exist more than 1, and less than 2 cars in 10 meters, it is a Middle volume situation. The remains will be discretized to Low traffic volume situation The cars are randomly generated based on the values of the pre-defined OD\(OringinJDestination for every OD pair is changing during the execution as shown in Fig.6 lY l Jl .? 15 co ? 10 Xl 5 Q O .r:: 0 o 50 100  150 T:in e 4n ilutes Fig. 6. Change of OriginiDestination values in simulations B. Simulation Result The parameter setting of the proposed data mining during the evolution is shown in Table IV. The total number of rules stored in the rule pool is shown in Fig.7. Each round has the same number of generations of 50 and the chosen set size for AAM is 100[14 TABLE IV PARAMETER SETTING FOR EVOLUTION Items Values Number of judgment nodes 100 Number of processing nodes 10 N umber of attributes 500 Number of consequents 1500 Number of time points 120 Minimum confidence value 0.9 Minimum chi-squared value 6.63 Minimum support value 0.05 40000 Ul 35000 !Il " 30000 '" .... "0 25000 20000 ? '" 15000 j9 10000 0 5000 E 


r r  r r l o 100 200 300 400 500 ROlU1ds Fig. 7. Total number of rules extracted In order to check the effectiveness of the extracted rules we tested the classification accuracy of the proposed method using the classifier with competition The average prediction accuracy is shown in Table V. The accuracy is defined in the following: if the traffic prediction result of the section at time t is "Low" and the real traffic of this section at time t is exactly "Low", then the accuracy is 100%. The low/middle/high accuracy means the accuracy when the real traffic is low/middle/high, respectively Table V shows that the method with Accuracy Validation can improve the overall accuracy than the method without Accuracy Validation. The Middle volume of the traffic network can not be predicted accurately because the middle situations do not appear frequently enough to generate an enough number of association rules TABLE V AVERAGE PREDICTION ACCURACY FOR TESTING DATABASE Method Prediction Accuracy Overall Low Middle High With Accuracy Validation 84.82 85.84 57.71 89.71 Without Accuracy Validation 82.64 83.57 56.57 87.13 Longer step prediction is explored by studying the 2-step, 3step and 4-step prediction, where n-step means the prediction of the traffic volume at n time points later. It's results are shown in Fig. 8. It is shown from Fig.8 that the prediction accuracy decreases as the number of prediction step increases but the increase of the number of steps does not affect the overall accuracy so much, so the proposed method can do relative stable prediction even if the number of prediction steps Increases The ratio of the usable rules to the total number of rules in each prediction step is shown in Fig.9, which describes that 


how the number of the usable rules for prediction decreases by the increase of the prediction steps, considering the condition that the time delay between the antecedent part and consequent part should be bigger or equal to the prediction step. In another word, as the prediction step increases, the number of the usable rules decreases 86 if G 84 82 80 f-------?-""":__---------1 0:: 78 r-------------">.-======---1 :? 76 -------------------j 74 72 4 n-6tep I?w ihAcCUlacyValiiarnn -w ihoutAcCUlacyValiiarnn I Fig. 8. Overall accuracy for 2-step, 3-step and 4-step prediction The proposed method cannot extract all the rules meeting the given definition of importance since it uses the fixed 2254 120 II 100 80 "'<Ie o 60 ?? ? 0: 40 20 0 N Step Fig. 9. Average percentage of usable rules for each prediction step number of rules for each class of the consequent attributes but the result shows that the ability to extract important rules is sufficient enough for the purposes. The mechanism of Accuracy Validation shows more stable performances as shown in Fig. 8 V. CONCLUSION In this paper, an association rule mining method using GNP with Accuracy Validation mechanism has been proposed. It is clarified from simulations that the proposed method can extract important time-related association rules for each class of the consequent attributes efficiently. What's more important is that these rules can be used to decide to which class the time related data belong accurately. From simulations, we have also 


found that the proposed method can be used in traffic volume prediction problems. Further improvements of the proposed method is studied in terms of applying the proposed method to real world navigation systems REFERENCES I Vehicle Routing and Congestion Predictions for Real-time Driver Guid ance, Transportation Research Records, 1408, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C., pp. 66-74, 1993 2 October 17, 1989 3 network predictions, In Proc. of the Conference of Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, Sherbrooke, Quebec, June, pp. 331-339, 1997 4 dynamic traffic networks with joint route and departure time choice. In Proc. of the 84th Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board Washington, DC., 2005 5 Springer, 2002 6 Related Sequential Association Rule Mining and Traffic Prediction", In Proc. of the IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation 2009, 2009/5 7 gorithm: Genetic Network Programming\(GNP Reinforcement Learning", Evolutionary Computation, MIT press, Vol. IS No.3, pp.369-398, 2007 8 Multiagent Models Based on Symbiosis", IEEE Trans. on Syst., Man and Cybernetics - Part B -, Vol.36, No.1, pp.179-193, 2006 9 Deck Elevator Group Supervisory Control System Using Genetic Network Programming, IEEE Trans. on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, Part C, Vol 38, No. 4, pp. 535-550, 200817 10 University of Michigan Press, 1975 11] D. E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithm in search, optimization and machine learning, Addison -Wesley, 1989 12 means of natural selection, Cambridge, Mass., MIT Press, 1992 13 Programs, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1994 


14 Association Rules Mining with Attribute Accumulation Mechanism and its Application to Traffic Prediction", Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics, Vol. 12, No. 5, pp. 467-478 200817 15 Information and Communication System", Vehicle Navigation and Infor mation Systems Conference, 1993 2255 


intend to expand this work to involve some interesting features in each stage prediction and evaluate it on many datasets   REFERENCES  1] F. Ricardo, N. Ana, M. Paula, B. Gleidson, R. Fabiano ODE: Ontology-based software Development Environment, Proceedings of the IX Argentine Congress on Computer Science, pp. 1124-1135, 2003 2] E. Mendes, B. A. Kitchenham. Further comparison of cross-company and within-company effort estimation models for Web applications. In: Proc. 10th IEEE International Software Metrics Symposium, Chicago USA, pp.348-357, 2004 3] B. Boehm, R. Valerdi. Achievements and Challenges in Software Resource Estimation, Proceedings of ICSE 06 Shanghai, China, pp. 74-83,  2006 4] K. Molokken, M. Jorgensen. A review of software surveys on software effort estimation, Proceedings of International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering \(ISESE 2003 5] M. Jorgensen, K. Molokken-Ostvold. How large are software cost overruns? A review of the 1994 CHAOS report, Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48 issue 4. PP. 297-301, 2006 6] X. Huanga, D. Hob, J. Rena, L. F. Capretz. Improving the COCOMO model using a neuro-Fuzzy approach Applied Soft Computing, Vol.7, issue 1, pp. 29-40, 2007 7] L. Briand, T. Langley, I. Wieczorek. A replicated assessment and comparison of common software cost modeling techniques, Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on Software Engineering, 2000 8] S.-J Huang, N. H. Chiu. Optimization of analogy weights by genetic algorithm for software effort estimation Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48, issue 11 pp. 1034-1045, 2006 9] Z. Xu, T. M. Khoshgoftaar. Identification of Fuzzy models of software cost estimation, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Vol. 145, issue 1, pp. 141-163, 2004 10] R. Pressman. Software Engineering: practitioner 


approaches, McGraw Hill, London, 2004 11] M. Boraso, C. Montangero, H. Sedhi. Software cost estimation: an experimental study of model performance Universita di Pisa, Italy, 1996 12] Y. Wang, Q. Song, J. Shen., 2007. Grey Learning Based Software Stage-Effort Estimation. International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pp 1470-1475, 2007 13] S. G. MacDonell, M. J. Shepperd. Using prior-phase effort records for re-estimation during software projects Ninth International, Software Metrics Symposium, pp 73- 86, 2003 14] M .C Ohlsson, C. Wohlin. An Empirical Study of Effort Estimation during Project Execution, Sixth International Software Metrics Symposium \(METRICS'99 1999 15] N. H. Chiu,,S. J. Huang.  The adjusted analogy-based software effort estimation based on similarity distances Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 80, issue 4, pp 628-640, 2007 16] P. Sentas, L. Angelis, I. Stamelos, G.  Bleris. Software productivity and effort prediction with ordinal regression Information and Software Technology, Vol. 47, issue 1 pp. 17-29, 2005 17] E. Mendes, N. Mosley. Comparing effort prediction models for Web design and authoring using boxplots Australian Computer Science Communications,  Vol. 23 Issue 1, pp. 125-133, 2001 18] E. Mendes, N. Mosley, I. Watson. A comparison of casebased reasoning approaches, Proceedings of the 11th international conference on World Wide Web, pp. 272280, 2002 19] Q. Zhao, S. S. Bhowmick. Association Rule Mining: A Survey  http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/734613.html, 2003 20] S. Morisak, A. Monden, H. Tamada. An Extension of association rule mining for software engineering data repositories, Information Science Technical Report NAIST, 2006 21] Q. Song, M. Shepperd.  M. Cartwright, C. Mair. Software defect association mining and defect correction effort prediction, IEEE transaction on software engineering Vol. 32, No.2, pp. 69-82, 2006 


22] R. Agrawal, T. Amielinski, A. Swami. Mining association rule between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207-216, 1993 23] M-J. Huang, Y-L. Tsou, S-C. Lee.  Integrating Fuzzy data mining and Fuzzy artificial neural networks for discovering implicit knowledge, J. Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol.19 \(6 24] ISBSG International Software Benchmarking standards Group, Data repository release 10, Site http://www.isbsg.org, 2007 25] L. Zadeh. Toward a theory of Fuzzy information granulation and its centrality in human reasoning and Fuzzy logic. J. Fuzzy sets and Systems 90, pp. 111-127 1997 26] I. H. Witten, E. Frank. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques, 2nd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2005   256 


encountering a related term, i.e. IC\(c e intuition behind the use of the negative likelihood is that the more probable a term to appear, the less information it conveys. All these features show that Jiangs measure tends to be more general and more appropriate for evaluating nontaxonomically related terms. Indeed, a high score of the relatedness measures suggests a strong relationship between terms Nevertheless, all relatedness measures have limitations because they assume that all the semantic content of a particular term is modeled by semantic links in WordNet Consequently, in many situations, truly related terms obtain a low scores even though their belongings to a certain category of tags, e.g., jargon tags Additionally, when measuring the quality of an automatically knowledge acquisition results, the typical measures used in Information Retrieval are Recall, Precision and F-Measure. However, computing Recall and F-Measure requires the availability of a Gold Standard. Hence, we will only compute the Precision which speci?es to which extent the non-taxonomic relationships is extracted correctly. In this case, the ratio between the correctly extracted relations i.e., their relatedness measures is greater than or equal to a minimum threshold, and the whole number of extracted ones is computed. Thus, we have Precision Total correctly selected entities Total selected entities 12 http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-Similarity 13 A term refers to a tag subject or a tag object C. Evaluation of non-taxonomic relationships Only a percentage of the full set of non-taxonomic relationships \(89 is caused by the presence of non standard terms which are not contained in WordNet and, in consequence, cannot be evaluated using WordNet-based relatedness measures. Fig. 5 depicts the evaluation results of the extracted non-taxonomic relationships against their relatedness measures High relatedness score \(88 17% of the extracted relationships, as most of terms are strongly related with respect WordNet Null Scores were obtained for 5% of the extracted 


relationships. Analyzing this case in more detail, we have observed that the poor score is caused in many situations by the way in which Jiangs distance metric works. This latter completely depends on the distance between two terms based on the number of edges found on the path between them in WordNet. In consequence this measure returns a value that does not fully represent reality. For example, on the one hand, Jiangs distance metric returns a null value for the relationship between insurance and car, even though the ?rst is a commonly related to the second, i.e., car involved insurance Finally with a minimal Jiangs distance metric threshold, set to 46%, the computed precision of correctly extracted relationships candidates is equal to 68.8 An example of extracted non-taxonomic relationships is depicted in Table V where each relation describes the subject tag, e.g., tool, the predicate, e.g is being developed within, and the object tag, e.g mesh. Fig. 4 represent a fragment output of the extracted ontological structure where each concept de?nes a set of similar and synonym tags and labels, i.e., mentions has been, revealed, caused and is created with describe the predicates of the non-taxonomic relationships between terms Due to the limitations observed by the automatic evaluation procedure and the lack of gold standards containing non-taxonomic relationships, we have examined the extracted non-taxonomic relationships from a linguistic point 377 Top space      distance     quad great     groovy nifty caused address      addresses extension      quotation   reference  references extensions        referenz     source      refrence sources    rfrences    quotations research    search     searching searchs open-source     open_source 


opensource linux aim     design     designer      designers patern    project     patterns     projekte projects web+design    web_design webdesign internet       internetbs net          web network      networking networks      web discussion     news       password word      words community      communities is_created_with mentions revealed has_been Figure 4. A fragment output of the extracted ontological structure of view. This qualitative evaluation can bring some interesting insights about the kind of results one can expect Invalid relations are extracted: Even though a relation such as music cities skill is considered as correct one since tag subject, tag object and predicate are correctly extracted. From a semantic point of view, this relation has no meaning. Hence, a higher precision is expected Figure 5. Summary of non-taxonomic evaluation measure Table V EXAMPLES OF EXTRACTED NON TAXONOMIC RELATIONSHIPS Subject Predicate Object search has been reference reference mentions search tool is being developed within mesh security added encoding search revealed reference java provides library by performing the sense analysis on complete relations An ambiguity in the extracted predicates between terms is observed: Hence, same relations are redundant since they use a synonym predicates between terms, e.g java provides library and java yields library. Thus we expect that the redundancy removal within extracted relations will be of bene?t for the improvement of the 


obtained results VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK The extraction of non-taxonomic relationships from folksonomies is to the best of our knowledge is the least tackled task within ontology building from folksonomy. This is why there is a need of novel and general purpose approaches covering the full process of learning relationships. In this paper, we introduced a new approach called NONTAXFOLKS that starts by pre-processing tags aiming at getting a set of frequent tagsets corresponding to an agreed representation Then, they are used to retrieve related tags using external resources such as WordNet. Thanks to the particular structure of triadic concepts, it allows grouping semantically related tags by considering the semantic relatedness embodied in the different frequencies of co-occurences among users, resources and tags in the folksonomy. Thereafter we introduced an algorithm called NTREXTRACTION for extracting non-taxonomic relationships between pair of tags picked from the triadic concepts. In summary, our approach uses several well known techniques \(such as formal concept analysis or association rule discovering the social bookmaring environnement in order to propose a new way of extracting labeled non-taxonomic relationships between tags. Currently, we are investigating the following topic concerning the discovered predicates between two terms. Indeed, in order to avoid relationships redundancy and thus a redundancy in the builded ontology. One can try to classify them into prede?ned semantic classes, detect synonyms, inverses, etc. A standard classi?cation of verbs could be used for this purpose, adding additional information about the semantic content, e.g., senses, verb types, thematic roles, etc., of predicates relationships 378 REFERENCES 1] J. Pan, S. Taylor, and E. Thomas, Reducing ambiguity in tagging systems with folksonomy search expansion, in Proceedings of the 6th Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC2009 2] V. S. M. Kavalec, A. Maedche, Discovery of lexical entries for non-taxonomic relations in ontology learning, in Proceedings of the SOFSEM 2004, LNCS, vol. 2932, 2004, pp 249256 


3] L. Specia and E. Motta, Integrating folksonomies with the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 4th European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC 2007 Innsbruck, Austria, vol. 4519, June 2007, pp. 624639 4] P. Mika, Ontologies are us: A uni?ed model of social networks and semantics, in Proceedings of the 4th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC2005 3729, Galway, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 522536 5] P. Schmitz, Inducing ontology from ?ickr tags, in Proceedings of the Workshop on Collaborative Tagging \(WWW 2006 Edinburgh, Scotland, May 2006 6] M. Zhou, S. Bao, X. Wu, and Y. Yu, An unsupervised model for exploring hierarchical semantics from social annotations, in Proceedings of the 6th International Semantic Web Conference and 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference ISWC/ASWC2007 Korea, vol. 4825, November 2006, pp. 673686 7] C. Schmitz, A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, and G. Stumme, Mining association rules in folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 10th IFCS Conference \(IFCS 2006 2006, pp. 261270 8] A. Hotho, A. Maedche, S. Staab, and V. Zacharias, On knowledgeable unsupervised text mining, in Proceedings of Text Mining Workshop, Physica-Verlag, 2003, pp. 131152 9] A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme, Information retrieval in folksonomies: Search and ranking, in The Semantic Web: Research and Applications, vol. 4011 Springer, 2006, pp. 411426 10] F. Lehmann and R. Wille, A triadic approach to formal concept analysis, in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Conceptual Structures: Applications, Implementation and Theory. Springer-Verlag, 1995, pp. 3243 11] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G.Stumme Discovering shared conceptualizations in folksonomies Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, vol. 6, pp. 3853, 2008 12] A. Mathes, Folksonomies - cooperative classi?cation and communication through shared metadata, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Tech. Rep. LIS590CMC, December 2004 13] H. Lin, J. Davis, and Y. Zhou, An integrated approach 


to extracting ontological structures from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 6th European Semantic Web Conference ESWC 2009 vol. 5554, 2009, pp. 654668 14] M. Szomszor, H. Alani, K. OHara, and N. Shadbolt, Semantic modelling of user interests based on cross-folksonomy, in Proceedings of the 7th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC 2008 15] G.Begelman, P. Keller, and F.Smadja, Automated tag clustering: Improving search and exploration in the tag space, in Proceedings of the the Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop WWW 2006 16] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G. Stumme TRIAS - an algorithm for mining iceberg tri-lattices, in Procedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, \(ICDM 2006 2006, pp. 907911 17] C. Borgelt, Ef?cient implementation of APRIORI and ECLAT, in FIMI, COEUR Workshop Proceedings, COEURWS.org, vol. 126, 2003 18] J. Tang, H. Leung, Q. Luo, D. Chen, and J. Gong, Towards ontology learning from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 21st international jont conference on Arti?cal intelligence IJCAI 2009 20892094 19] L. Ding, T. Finin, A. Joshi, R. Pan, R. Cost, Y. Peng P. Reddivari, V. Doshi, and J. Sachs, Swoogle: A search and metadata engine for the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 652659 20] A. Hliaoutakis, G. Varelas, E. Voutsakis, E. Petrakis, and E. E Milios, Information retrieval by semantic similarity, International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems IJSWIS 21] G. Pirro, M. Ruffolo, and D. Talia, Secco: On building semantic links in peer to peer networks, Journal on Data Semantics XII, LNCS 5480, pp. 136, 2009 22] C. Meilicke, H. Stuckenschmidt, and A. Tamilin, Repairing ontology mappings, in Proceedings of the International Conference AAAI 2007, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 2007, pp. 14081413 23] S. Ravi and M. Rada, Unsupervised graph-based word sense 


disambiguation using measures of word semantic similarity in Proceedings of the International Conference ICSC 2007 Irvine, California, USA, 2007 24] H. G. A. Budanitsky, Semantic distance in wordnet: an experimental application oriented evaluation of ?ve measures in Proceedings of the International Conference NACCL 2001 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, 2007, pp. 2934 25] J. Jiang and D. Conrath, Semantic similarity based on corpus statistics and lexical taxonomy, in Proceedings of the International Conference ROCLING X, 1997 379 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


