Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 RESEARCH OF DYNAMIC RULE ENGINE IN FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE BING XU, SHI-YI XIE College of Information Technology, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang 524088, China E-MAIL: mypaper2008@126.com, arbeng@sina.com Abstract It applies a rule engine design scheme with dynamic programming algorithm and optimal policy in financial management system The scheme adopts backward reasoning method when the facts and rules change in a small way, the results of constant parts are kept by the algorithm, and it just needs to calculate the changin g parts. Thus, the massive repeated calculating workload can be reduced which enhances system performance greatly When the facts and rules have big changing, the algorithm still retains a high efficiency. The testing result shows that the average response time to system is far lower than both of forward reasoning and ordinary backward reasoning meth od in same circumstances Keywords Rule Engine; Backward Reasoning; Dynamic Programming; Optimal Policy 1. Introduction With the development of the information technology both of the market and the demands of customers are changing inevitably. In order to meet the changes in a longer period, itês essential for the financial management software to face the fundamental issue that the business rules are changing [1  The rise of rule e n gine technology has provided rule-based programming with a better way to achieve integration and realizati on. By separating the instable business logic from financial management system and processing it as the structure objects, the complex business logic can be dec omposed into every simple business rule. Then the complicated logical relationship between the businesses rules will be given to the engine for reasoning, enabling the system accommodates business   RETE algorithm is the most common rule engine algorithm, but itês not practical in the situation that application business rules change in a big way 3 ere are still some urgent issues need to be solved immediately like how to solve reasoning problems and improve the efficiency of rule reasoning mechanisms and rule match, as well as reduce the response time when there are mass rules   2 Structure analysis of financial software 2.1. Traditional structure The traditional financial software is generally based on the C/S structure, the server accepts request from the client implements business logic operatio n, operates the database to complete the correspond ing process ,finally the results will be returned to the client to get the display; the client needs to install a specific program called ç fat clienté. The development of Internet technol ogy gives rise to the emergence of financial system based on B/S hierarchical structure [5]. Fo r example, E-Bank, stock exchange system etc.In the new structure, we form a specialized mid-layer application server by separating the numerous business logic and financial computing from the client, and setting them as mid-layer. The client has to access the mid-layer application server via the web browser When the financial business logic changes, we ju st have to modify the corresponding mid-layer components which are used as reusable components for financial applications Consequently, the adaptability and expansibility of the system can be enforced, as shown in Figure 1  DataBase Persistent Layer  DataBase   Client Browser  Application Server Mid-Layer   Component 1  Component N   Figure 1. Financial system based on the C/S structure This multi-layered structure is more flexible compared with the previous C/S structure,however,as the financial 978-1-4244-2096-4/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE 1389 


Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 business process become more and more complicate, the structure shows in Figure1 presents some limitations mainly as follow 1\he mid-layer component s express the financial business logic more explicitly, but the business model and business logic remains mixed, the business logic and code logic havenít been separated thoroughly. To a certain extent there is still a drawback th at the logical layers are not explicit [6 2\hough these mid-lay er components are reusable yet we have to go through a series of steps to accommodate business logic changes, such as coding, compiling release,ect which makes it become less flexible and adaptable ,and makes it more complicate for system upgrade and maintenance 2.2 Structure based on rule engine The structure of financial software based on business rule engine, as shown in Figure 2. A rule server has been add to the mid-layer in th is structure which including two models: business model and business rule. The business rule model can be configured dynamicly.Also, there is an application server at the midlayer which including some reusable components A system based on business rule usually consists of four parts: rule engine, rule warehouse rule languages and rule management tools Rule engine is the software components of business rules implementation, and itís the core module of system. Rule warehouse is used for storing rules and rules metadata, as well as rules attributes. Rule languages are used to define business rules. Rule management tools are graphical tools used for managing creating, modifying, and deploying business rules Figure 2. Financial syst em based on rule engine 3 Dynamic programming technology 3.1. Definition Decomposing the entire process into a series of similar structure subproblems, the number of variables for each subproblem can be reduced greatly, and the constraint set become much simpler, which makes it easier to obtain global optimal solution As to optimal problems which canít be solved by the analysis form, such as constraint set conditions shift, and target fun ction, ect.we can solve every subprocess by means of enumeration The more the constraint conditions are, the smaller decision-making searching domain will be, thus, making it easier to get the solution [7 3.2. Basic principle For the initial state policy is the base condition of the optimal policy, to any  value 1 there has 1 xX  1  n n  1  11   n PUU  kK  11 11 1  111 11111         kk nn k k ppx V x p opt V x p        kn kn k kn k kn ppx opt V x p  3.3 Optimal policy Suppose the optimal policy is  can take any value 1 the sub-policies   are also optimal policy towards the later subprocess initiated with  11  nn PPx  k Kn   kn P  k x which is defined by and Whatever the initial conditions and decision variables over some initial period, the remaining decisions mu st is optimal policy, with the state resulting from the early decisions [8 1 x  11 k P  According to the basic principle conclusion we can obtain the dynamic programming equation 11  11 1             kkk kk kkk k k k uux kkk xn n fx opt vxu f x x x un fx x    1         1 2  With the terminal condition of decision-making 11 1   xn n f xx     here  is a known function, the terminal co ndition is called fixed terminal when take a fixed state, and itís called free terminal when is able to vary in the terminal set The final optimal target function must obey the  1 n x  1 n x  1 n X  1390 


Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 equation  11 11   n xX opt V opt f x   4 Backward reasoning based on dynamic programming 4.1. Terms Some terms in the paper defined as follows 1\r A memory buffer is built in the memory for storing the facts 2\r A memory buffer is built in the memory for storing the rules 3\rivation Tree According to the conclusion we are going to make firstly search for the relevant rules, then for the facts that conform to the rule, finally build a derivation tree that originates from conclusions to rules then to facts. As shown in Figure 3 4\Region A memory region which stores Derivation Tree, so as to search, add delete, and modify the rele vant reasoning conclusion 5\onclusion node The Mid-conclusion node is used to store the fact index that conform to relevant rules and the rules that generate the node As described in Figure 3 mi   conclusion conclusion conclusion rule 1 rule 2 rule 3 facts 1 facts 3 midcon 1 rule221 rule222 rule 223 facts 2 root Figure 3. Model of derivation tree 4.2. Algorithm design In this paper we defines a priority for each rule, the engine will implement the rule instances one by one according to sequence of the rule implementation queue The rule implementation is probable to change the data object in the work area, some rule implementation instance will fail owing to the conditions change which must be removed from the queqe.The rules that donêt initially conform to the condition will possibly be activated, and generate new rules, enter the queue by implementing instance. Consequently, a kind of çdynamicé rule implementation chain has emerged, forming the reasoning mechanism of rules. The çchainé responses of rules are all   The performance of the engine is determined by the efficiency of rule conditions matching the engine requires testing data objects from work area, to find out the rules that conform to co nditions from the lo ading rule set, finally generate the rule implementation instance. In this paper we build an index for facts and rules according to the semantics   4.3. Reasoning algorithm description Step I If \(the reasoning information exists return result Step II else { //the reasoning information doesnêt exist if \(single rule according to the rule condition, initiate with rule conclusion, go to  else {// there is the rule co mbination to which several rules must obey simultaneously Initiate with the highest-priority rule, search whether there is reasoning information of this rule in such condition If the reasoning information of this rule in such condition doesnêt exist search for the rule conditions among all facts find out the relevant facts, and then generate a midcon build a branch L which connects root node to midcon load the relevant facts into facts buffer, load the relevant rules into rules buffer load the relevant fact index into midcon initiate with the second highest-priority rule search for facts according to rules, the fact can be found in the index facts among the midcon just generated, the rest can be deduced by analogy If we can find the fact in the last rule, that means the reasoning is successful, and we should build an intact branch submit the result information to the user or else, submit non-result information to the user  4.4. Derivation tree maintenance algorithm description Step I if \(rule delete\en {delete the relevant branch; delete 1391 


Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 the branch that is not connected with the root node Step II if \(fact delete delete index relevant to the fact among the midcons; delete index relevant to the fact among the fact nodes if \(midcon m1 is null\1 if \(fact node f1 is null if \(branch L1 is not connected Step III While \(add fact/rule\ {reason the derivation tree and the relevant conclusion again according to the rules or facts semantics Step IV While \(modify fact/rule 4.5 Characteristic of the algorithm 1 The backward reasoning algorithm is different from the forward one, it in itiates with conclusion, so as to search for conditions with conclusion whose quantity is generally far less than that of conditions For instance, consider we are searching for those who have used the credit card more than 3 years given that the index is built based on binary tree sequence Suppose is the total of people is the total of resident city. select individual from thus th e ordering time of forward reasoning is order by nam e query time is However do the backward reasoning that firstly order by city, then by name, thus the ordering time of backward reasoning is the query time is Obviously, the backward reasoning cost less than the forward reasoning We can conclude that backward reasoning is much more efficient, because it initiates with the conclusion whose quantity is generally far less than that of conditions m h km 2  Om lg  Ok m 22 2       Oh m Om h Ok  lg  Ohk  2 The algorithm keeps the mid-conclusion so that the later reasoning can build on the ex isting conclusion. As to the done reasoning, take the conclusion directly rather than reason again When the facts and rules change in a small way, as the results of constant part are kept by the algorithm, it just need to calculate the changing parts, thus the massive repeated calculating workload can be reduced which enhance system performance greatly 5.  Experiment In this paper we make a test on the PC which has a Pentium 2.8G CPU and a 2.0G memory. One hundred thousand records related to credit card information have been put at Oracle database, as the fact information of rule engine Moreover, we have put 10000 rules at the database as the foundation of reasoning, then process the test. From Figure 4, we can find that, the time cost of forward reasoning is about 15 milli second however, while 1.8 millisecond of backward reasoning.Obviously the backward reasoning has great efficiency  5 10 15 20 cost 1 5 9 13 test sequence forward reasoning ms/per backward reasoning ms/per  Figure 4. Cost compare of reasoning As shown in Figure 5, the reasoning response time change with the exist of dynamic programming. The average response time of backward reasoning non-dynamic programming\ is 3.8951 millisecond When the rules and facts change in a small way, the response time of backward reasoning based on dynamic programming is about 0.8233 millisecond.So the backward reasoning algorithm based on dynamic programming can improve the performance of the system obviously 2 4 cost dynamic backward reasoning normal backward reasoning test sequence 1 5 9 13 Figure 5.Response time of dynamic and normal backward reasoning 6. Conclusions There are so many flexible business rules in modern financial management system, which makes it much more 1392 


Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 difficult to develop such system successfully. In this paper it applies the dynamic programmi ng algorithm to backward reasoning of rule engine,Everytime the reasoning is implemented, it firstly to fi nd whether this reasoning has been done before, if it has, took the conclusion directly.otherwise,implement the reasoning and retain the mid-conclusion, so that the later reasoning can build on the existing conclusion In this way, it can reduce the times of reasoning and shorten the respon se time. The testing result shows that the average response time is less than 4ms which is far lower than both of forward reasoning and ordinary backward reasoning method in same circumstances. Thus the algorithm can improve the performance of financial management software obviously and we can provide a high-performance scheme for large financial system based on business rules flow Acknowledgements This paper is supported by the Research Fund of Guangdong Ocean University, and the Science and Technology Planning of Guangdong Province References 1 S h iyi Xie Sh en g Gao  Study o f Op tim u m Sch ed u ling Algorithm about Buses in City Intelligent Transport Systemé, Proceeding of ICMLC2004 Conference Shanghai, pp.2795-2799, August 2004  Gaolei Fu, çThe Mu lti-object Fuzzy Optimization Dynamic Statw Model about Resource Allocation Journal of Liaoning Technical University \(Natural Science Edition Vol 20 No.5, pp 679-681 Jun.2001  Xiao Liu ,Cheng Wa ng Dynamic Programming Algorithm for Econo mic Lot-sizing Problem with Bounded Inventory and Out-sourcingé, Journal of Harbin Institute of Technology ,Vol 12, No.4 pp.450-455, Jul.2005  Xue xian C h eng W eis u Zhu, çResea rch a n d Implementation of Processing Courses Algorithm Based on dynamic programmingé ,Journal of WuHan University of Technology Transportation Science Engineering\ar.2006  Weizheng Pan, Ru iqi Jin, çImplement ation Method for a Rule Engineé, Journal of Harbin Engineering University, Vol 26, No.3, pp. 385-387, Jun.2005  Xiaom ing G u  Pre dicting F irm sê Financ ial Failure Using Financial Ratios an Empirical Studies of Chinese Firms Journal of Donghua University Vol 21, No.5, pp. 136-143, Jul.2006 7  Qion g W ang  Two lev el fuzzy eval uation for classification of creditsé, Journal of Zhejiang University Science, Vol 3, No.3, pp.311-314 Mar.2002  Jirong Jiang A Hy brid Dynamic Programming Method for Concave Resource Allocation Problems Journal of Shanghai Un iversity \(English Edition Vol 9, No.2, pp. 95-98, Feb.2005  Z hihang Li n, çProduc t Modelling and Functional Reasoning in Conceptua l Design Journal of Shanghai University \(English Edition Vol 8 No.A02 pp.137-141, Feb.2004 10 Y a n c hu n Liang Y a nfeng Sun An im p r o v ed m e th od of support vector machine and its applications to financial time series forecastingé, Progress in Natural Science, Vol 13, No.9, pp. 696-700, Nov.2003  Billy D, Davidson D, Sc haeffer J.éThe challenge of poker Artificial&Intelligence, Vol134, No.2 pp.201-204, Feb.2002 1393 


  6 Data Interface\227 The SC Integrated Avionics Unit \(IAU functions as the main data and command interface between the PLs. All PL command, data collection, and data storage is via the PL Interface Board \(P IB\which resides within the IAU. The PIB provides each PL one data port which consists of a 62 pin high density d-sub \(HDD\or on the PL module. All PL commands and collection of high rate data, real-time data, analogs and discretes is through the single 62 pin Data Port. All PL data \(high rate and realtime\is polled and ingested in a \223round robin\224 scheme ensuring that no PL can monopolize the bus. Both the PL high rate and real-time data are time-stamped at the time of receipt Figure 7 shows the PIB system block diagram. The PIB ingests PL high rate mission data, encapsulates this data in a Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems \(CCSDS compliant Channel Assess Data Unit \(CADU\format and stores the formatted CADU for subsequent transmission to the ground. All high rate data is transferred via either an asynchronous UART EIA-422 link or  a synchronous EIA compliant RS-422 link. The choice of synchronous or asynchronous data transfer met hod is selectable for each PL and is fixed prior to launch. The total high data rate available is 2 Mbps shared among all the PLs The PIB provides for collection of PL real-time data. One EIA-422 UART is provided on each PL data port. PL realtime data is collected and interleaved into the real-time SC downlink and is also stored on the PIB for retransmit. Each PL\222s real-time data is limited to 240 bytes/sec The PIB provides to each PL data port; 8 analog inputs, 8 discrete inputs, and 8 discrete outputs. The term \223input\224 or 223output\224 used throughout this section is referenced from the SC point of view \(i.e. input refers to data from a PL into the SC\e PIB samples the analog and discrete telemetry channels once a second. Analog data is converted to a Figure 7 PIB System Block Diagram Illu strates Standard Data Interface 


  7 digital format using a 12 bit A-to-D converter. The PIB interleaves the discrete and an alog data into the SC realtime telemetry. The PL real-time serial data is formatted with a CCSDS Path Protocol Data Unit \(CP_PDU\header and then transferred to solid state memory for storage and subsequent transmission to the ground. SC data \(high rate real-time, analog, discrete\entified using an application id \(APid\rtual channel id \(VCid\ real-time data is assigned it\222s own APid and VCid for each data port, while analog and discrete data is included into the SC state of health data and uniquely identified by APid for each data port The PIB also functions as th e gateway for commands issued to the PLs and delivering SC status message \(time, SC ephemeris, SC attitude and PL interface temperature information to the PLs. Each PL data port is provided one EIA-422 UART command link Each PL data port is provided a 1 PPS signal, slaved to the SC master clock. The 1 PPS signal is an EIA-422 compliant differential pulse providing accu racy better than 1 ms. Once a second, SC time \(seconds since epoch\s delivered to each PL via the EIA-422 command gateway. Thus the PLs may synchronize to the SC master clock with a high degree of precision The PIB provides total mass memory storage of 8 Gbit of EDAC validated memory space. The memory is shared amongst all 4 PLs for high rate, real-time and stored state of health data. The PIB design allows for four software partitioned buffers corresponding to storage of each PL\222s high rate data. Memory partition size is allocated by flight software \(FSW\zed to fit individual PL\222s storage needs. Mass memory allocations are assigned to each PL by Ball Aerospace and may be resized during flight. PL realtime data is also archived and managed by FSW. Archived data is available for retransmission via ground command PL memory storage is physica lly arrayed as a circular buffer, for which PLs are responsible for not exceeding their data storage allocation and overwriting previous data Memory partitions are in place to ensure that even in error conditions such as a PL exceeding their data storage allotment, each PL\222s data will remain inviolate Design Environments The STP-SIV User\222s Guide defines the environments the PLs will be exposed to during system level test, launch and on-orbit. These environments include vibration, acoustics shock, acceleration, radiation, and electromagnetic Space Vehicle to Launch Vehicle Interface STP-SIV is designed to launch a variety of LVs, including Pegasus, Minotaur I and IV, and the ESPA on either Atlas V or Delta IV. This flexibility maximizes launch manifest opportunities as a secondary PL or as a rideshare partner Compatibility with multiple LVs requires the SV be designed to bounding launch envir onments that envelope all candidate LVs. Although volume and mass are easily bounded, other factors such as a realistic LV shock and electromagnetic Interference EMI\ent require thorough analysis  A minimal set of electrical inte rfaces have been identified to provide safety monitoring and battery charging of the SC The SC and PLs will be powered off when mated to the LV until SC separation, keeping the required number of umbilical interfaces at a minimum Spacecraft to Ground System Interface The interface between the STP-SIV and ground operations is also controlled by two doc uments; an Interface Control Document \(ICD\and the Standardized Interface Specification for the Air Force Satellite Control Network AFSCN\SIS-000502C. SIS-000502 defines the types of service provided by the AFSCN and the design requirements for the SV radio frequency \(RF\stem. The ICD describes the specific char acteristics employed by the space vehicle RF system to show compliance with these requirements. This includes defining the exact operating frequency, subcarrier frequencie s, modulation scheme, etc Space Ground Link Subsystem \(SGLS of a command/ranging receiver with embedded decryptor and power converter and a telemetry/ranging transmitter with embedded encryptor and power converter. The STPSIV RF system is based on a single string L-3 Communications CXS-810C transponder. The transponder provides command reception, telemetry transmission encryption/decryption, and ranging data turn-around consistent with the Standard Interface Specification between AFSCN Common User Element Comm/Range Segment and Space as described in SIS-000502E Figure 8 provides an overview of the ground system architecture Commands and Schedules Commands are stored on board the SC in one of two schedules. The real-time schedule is an absolute time execution sequence. The script schedule is a relative time execution sequence. The realtime schedule and the script schedule have the same data format and structure. Each is a linked list ordered by scheduled time and priority. Each item in each schedule include s the command header, the data, and the cyclic redundancy check \(CRC maximum total length a command on any schedule is 256 bytes Real-time Command Processing When the schedule target fiel d indicates that the command is destined for the real-tim e schedule, the scheduled time field is compared with the current SC time. If the field\222s value is less than or equals to the SC time, the command is 


  8 immediately executed. If the sc heduled time is greater than the SC time, the command is placed on the schedule and executed when its scheduled time becomes equal or less than the SC time Every second, the real-time schedule is checked for commands that are to be execu ted. The scheduled time field of the first command on the sche dule is compared with the SC time. The command is executed if its scheduled time field is either current or in the past. The scheduled time of the next command on the schedule is then checked and executed if appropriate. This is continued until the command being checked has a sche duled time that is in the future Script Command Processing Script schedules have many of the same features as the realtime schedules; they can be manipulated in the same fashion as the real-time schedule. By command, script schedules can be loaded onto the real time schedule. The script schedule persists after being loaded onto the real-time schedule so that it can be subsequently manipulated reloaded, etc Script schedules have the same structure as the real-time schedule; they are linked lists ordered by scheduled time and priority. When schedule target field indicates the command is destined for one of the script schedules, it is placed on the script schedule by inserting it into the linked list When the script schedule is to be executed, a command is sent which loads the script schedule onto the real-time schedule. As the script schedule is being loaded, a time offset \(either a command parameter or the current SC time is added to the scheduled time field of the command. Thus the script schedule is a \223relative time\224 schedule that can be used at many different times. Since each command retains the value of the target schedul e field when it is loaded onto the real-time schedule, any in advertently loaded script schedule can be deleted from the real-time schedule Interface Control Documentation Although the STP-SIV PLUG describes the superset of interface capabilities, Ball Aero space and the PL developer must agree to the specifics of how each PL will use the interfaces. This non-ambiguous agreement is documented as an ICD and is the single sour ce for interface requirements The ICD specifies not only the requirement but also the method of requireme nt verification and provides traceability to supporting verification documentation Since PL developers and SDS will partner to successful fly DOD experiments, SDS will sugge st PL design changes that both increase the PL probability of mission success and decrease the risk of detrimenta l effect to the SC or other PLs. It is a balance between PL and SC requirements. PL developers must be vigilant of elusive effects to such things as outgassing and EMI and apply design guidance supplied in the STP-SIV PLUG Figure 8 STP-SIV Ground System Interfaces Defined 


  9 3  ORS  ISET  S TANDARDS P ROGRAM  The need for effective spacecr aft bus standards has been broadly identified as a necessary condition for a successful ORS system. The Office of Force Transformation \(OFT and SMC undertook a four phase initiative to develop and test bus standards and subsequently transition them to acquisition. This effort involves multiple government laboratories, industry partners, and academic institutions The ORS ISET bus standards described in this paper were developed as Phase III of this effort The ORS ISET Standards program has as its foundation the results of two focused studies performed in Phase I of the 4phase initiative to analyze the technical and business aspects of a standard bus within th e ORS System concept. The thrust of the business case effort, led by the MITRE Corporation, was to consider the broader user community of bus standards and the potential for overall acquisition from industry of a standard bus from the classes under consideration for ORS The second study was led by MIT/Lincoln Laboratory MIT/LL\oping a technical framework for classes of ORS standard busses to assess utility within the identified mission context. The research sought to determine whether meaningful military utility could be realized from relatively sm all spacecraft. This phase provided an analytical departure point to determine at least one proper class of ORS spacecraf t needed to be militarily relevant. This utility analysis drew on experienced users and system developers to generate measures of utility mapping system characteristics \(e.g geolocation accuracy, imaging resolution, dwell time, etc.\ mission capability across a broad set of identified ORS mission areas. Missions considered included RF collection, visible imaging, spectral imaging, navigation, communications, et  The MIT/LL study identified over fifteen performance metrics such as resolution, target location error, sensitivity frequency range, etc. within ten mission areas. Mission area examples include RF collecti on, visible imaging, spectral imaging, navigation, and communications. The utility of each performance metric and th e weighted value of that metric were determined and entered into a systems-ofsystems model. The parametric tool used spacecraft design models to determine spacecraft bus performance characteristics such as size, weight, power communications, etc. for approximately 120,000 varying bus designs and then evaluated the overall military utility for each design as well as the re lative cost in order to plot the trend of utility versus cost. Based on the results of the utility analysis, the report had several findings First, a tactical spacecraft bus standardized across variety of National Security Space \(NSS\issions, can meet many but not all needs of a tactical commander. Second, small sized tactical satellites can achieve large increases in mission utility if used in constellations to improve persistence. Lastly, there exist standard performance specifications for a small tactical satellite bus that satisfy a wide range of NSS missions The initial studies inform the bus standards effort which developed and matured bus standards in an open environment with broad government, industry, and academia participation. This was accomplished by forming a national system engineering working group with the US small satellite industry to establish and maintain ORS bus standards to include both technical and business factors One primary product of the bus standards effort is a Payload User\222s Guide which allows payload designers to design to the ORS standard bus. The second product is a bus \223design specification\224 that contains the developed standards interfaces, and overall performance level \(slew rate, power mass, etc.\of the spacecraft bus, including data protocols and launch vehicle interface details. While this collection of items could be considered the bus \223standard,\224 it is important to realize that this is not a spacecraft point-design, nor does it represent a design that is imposed on industry; but instead a system-level performance a nd interface specification that will enable multiple developers and integrators to support future acquisitions To validate and refine the bus standards, a prototype bus for flight experimentation was produced. The prototype bus developed under this effort will be integrated with a COMM-X payload in Fall 2008 for the Tactical Microsatellite \(TacSat\ mission Integrated System Engineering Team \(ISET Recognizing that significant buy in from industry was necessary to construct a set of standards that govern the design, manufacturing, assembly, test and integration of a high utility bus, ISET was established in 2005. The team\222s charter is to develop a set of specific standards that allow industry to produce spacecraft bus es for the government at moderate volume for low cost that provide, on average, the 22380% utility\224 solution across a number of mission types The ISET adopted the following specific charter Generate a set of spacecraft bus standards, in sufficient detail to allow a space vehicle manufacturer to design build, integrate, test and deliver a low cost spacecraft bus satisfying an enveloping set of mission requirements launch vehicle, target orbit, payload, etc.\n support of a tactical operational responsive space mission The government formed the team from credible domestic small satellite integrators. The team members supply senior systems engineering support to both high-level architecting activities, as well as detailed subsystem evaluation Representatives have demonstrated hands on experience in the design, development, manufacturing, integration, and 


  10 test of satellites, preferably small satellites, and/or volume production of satellites. The companies that make-up the ISET Team include ATK, AeroAstro, Design-Net Microcosm, Space Systems/Loral, General DynamicsSpectrum Astro, Microsat Sy stems Incorporated, Boeing Raytheon, and the Space Dynamics Lab \(SDL Spacecraft Capabilities The SC standards take into account the potential commonality and/or differen ces in spacecraft bus design between LEO and HEO missions. LEO missions launched from the Western and Eastern test ranges were investigated with altitudes from 350 to 705 km. A number of HEO orbits with working apogee altitude s above 7800 km were also investigated. These mission types were studied on the basis of differences in both the environmental impacts on bus design and required spacecraft bus subsystem performance Since the ORS spacecraft must comply with established satellite disposal procedures, the propulsive capability requirements for LEO and HEO missions were investigated A drag analysis that reflected ballistic coefficients for ORSclass missions determined that for LEO missions with altitudes greater than 600 km propulsion is required to deorbit the satellite within the required 25 years. Similarly, for HEO orbits, the directive states that the perigee of a LEO and medium Earth orbit \(MEO\t must be raised to above 2000 km. Since this requires a significant Delta V capability, the ORS standard was established to carry enough propulsion to lower the pe rigee. In addition, the drag environment for LEO missions below 550 km required sufficient makeup propulsion to maintain altitude through a nominal year mission life From a radiation perspective, HEO orbits define the worstcase charged particle environments. Below 705 km, LEO orbits have benign conditions. Since SC in HEO orbits spend more time near the orb it apogee, they accumulate a greater dose. At the lower apogees \(<3000 km\the environment is dominated by trapped protons and, at the higher apogees, electrons domin ate the environment. These results have implication on the radiation tolerance of the SC bus, therefore the standards el ected to state the expected environments, as both dose depth curves and particle fluence levels and leave the design mitigation for both Total Ionizing Dose \(TID\ngle Event Effects \(SEE\to the design team based on performance at the design vehicle life Finally, from a subsystem performance perspective, the relative orbital environments are similar enough to expect that bus performance could be maintained constant between the two mission types, with the exception of communications performance, which would need to be reduced or power aperture increased for the higher propagation distances Table  3 highlights bus capabilities   ISET Products \226 Bus Standards Figure 9 shows the ORS bus standards document structure A bus built to the standards must be compliant to these documents. PL developers will be most interested in the PDG summarized in the following sections Payload Developers Guide \(PDG The PDG document presents the envelope of capabilities and the requirements for support of the selected range of potential missions. It identifies the necessary performance requirements, interface defi nitions, and general ORS philosophies needed by mission designers and payload developers to be compatible with the ORS SC bus and launch capability. The PDG is intended as a standalone document from the PL provider\222s perspective  Table 3 ORS Bus Capabilities Parameter  Threshold Requirement  Orbit Altitude LEO: 350-705 km. HEO: 520 km perigee, 7825 km apogee Orbit Inclination LEO: 0 deg to 98.7 deg HEO: 63.4 deg Launch Mass 425 kg SV Volume Diameter=137.2 cm, Height=88 cm LV Compatibility Taurus, Minotaur I and IV, SpaceX Falcon 1 and Falcon 5, Delta II and IV, Atlas V, DARPA Falcons SV Lifetime 1 year Reliability at 7 months 0.85 Stabilization Method 3-axis Pointing Modes Nadir, safe Attitude Knowledge 60 arcsec 3  Attitude Control 0.05 deg 3  Bus Voltage 20 to 36 V \(Critical Power Service 24 to 33 V \(High Current Power Service Communication Frequency S-Band: SC T&C, LDR PL data L-Band: GPS X-Band: HDR HEO PL data Ku-Band: HDR LEO PL data Command Rate LEO: 200 kbps, HEO:2 kbps Telemetry Rate LEO: 250 Mbps, HEO:10-40 Mbps 


  11 The support accommodation for the PL contained within this document was derived from an enveloping process conducted by the ISET In order to develop effective standards, it was necessary fo r the ISET to research the mission needs and PL support requirements across a wide range of potential missions that were representative of a typical mission for the ORS program Table 4 shows the capabilities available to a potential payload. The volume available to the Payload is shown in Figure 10   Figure 10.  PL Stowed Envelope  The PDG is not a complete design standard for the PL itself it only covers the interfaces and support accommodations with the spacecraft bus and launch support service. Many aspects of the PL design are dependent on the actual mission  Table 4 ORS Standard Bus Provides Significant PL Accommodation  PL Support Item Selected Capability Comments Mass [kg 200 Captures 87% of maximums Volume [m 3  Figure 10 LV fairing constraints to be used Orbit Average Power W  200 Captures 94% of maximums Peak Power [W  700 Captures 81% of maximums Orbit Position Knowledge-3 002   1 arc-min at I/F Captures 75% of maximums Attitude Control-3 002 m  90 Captures 81% of maximums Attitude Knowledge3 002    0.05 Captures 81% of maximums Slew Rate [deg./sec 2.0 Captures 87% of maximums S/C SB Ops Data Rate [M  5 Captures 100% of maximums Tactical D/L Data Rate [M  274 As state-of-the-art permits PL Data Storage   0 SC will store only state-of-health data Thermal Dissipation to SB [W 60 PL brings any extra radiator  Figure 9 ORS Bus Standards Document Structure 


  12 the PL is intended to fulfill, thus many requirements and specifications that would be found in a PL design specification would need to be provided by the specific PL procurement agency. The ORS Phase III standards can be downloaded from http://projects.nrl.navy.mil/busstandards  Communications Interfaces  A key external interface for th e space segment \(bus and PL is RF communications to the ground. This topic investigated standardization for SC command and control \(C&C communications link and the tactical communication link Figure 11 presents a basic high-level view of the RF communications pathways envisioned in the standards Other issues investigated related to both current and future approaches the military is planning for RF communications including, data flow, frequency band definitions modulation techniques, data rates, communication security COMSEC\and basic defi nition of ground interface locations. Given the current maturity of the general military SC C&C network, the presen t SGLS architecture and the expected Unified S-Band \(USB\architecture were established as the standard. Fo r the tactical links, standard UHF was established for LDR application, and the Common Data Link \(CDL\ocol was established as the HDR standard Ground Support Checkout Interface In support of the rapid call-up scenario, standards for interfacing spacecraft bus and the payload, and processing the integrated space vehicle though launch, is one of the unique activities under the IS ET derived ORS system design. The need to develop an approach for this effort in sufficient detail in order to derive requirements that would influence the spacecraft bus design is critical. The approaches developed have design and manufacturing ramification on the bus, such as the ability to install batteries late in the flow, rapid \223built-in-test\224 capabilities periodic checks, and access a nd safety implications Data Interfaces: Bus to Payload and Ground This document defines the data exchange protocols, data transport formats, packet definitions and field definitions for the bus/PL interface. Underlying electrical interface for the bus/PL interface is the HDLC and SpaceWire. The bus/PL interface is defined such that the HDLC interface SpaceWire interface, or both can be used. The bus design will provide support for both interfaces. The PL may choose to implement either one or both. The bus/PL interface is defined to dynamically suppor t either or both interfaces without needing bus reconfiguration \(i.e., FSW changes This document also defines the data exchange protocols data transport and packet template for the space/ground interface. The space to ground interface definition assumes the use of a flight side SGLS transponder integrated with COMSEC slices. The SGLS forward link assumes a flightside Cardholder COMSEC slice. The SGLS return link  Figure 11 Radio Frequency Communications Architecture  


  13 assumes that the SGLS transponder supports both the narrow-band and wide-band inte rfaces. While a return link COMSEC is required, this document assumes that the return link COMSEC does not levy any blocking or packaging constraints for the return link This interface standard was developed as part of the ORS Phase 3 Bus effort. This interface standard was adopted by the ORS Phase 3 Bus and COMMx payload elements. As a result, the TACSAT-4 spacecraft implemented the encl osed interface standards for its bus to payload and space to ground interfaces This document is limited to and currently defines the interfaces between the spacecraf t bus and the payload, and between the spacecraft bus and the ground. Subsequent releases will define the add itional internal interfaces. The depth of detail required for in terface standardization and the need for coverage of additional interfaces is an ongoing assessment effort by ORS s upported standards definition efforts. The intent is to levy interface standards where these standards will lead to efficien t system integration, robust operational capabilities, and improved system flexibility while reducing overall system cost 4  C ONCLUSION  Both the STP-SIV and the ORS ISET efforts have developed standards that provide options for cost-effective capable, flexible spaceflight. Pathfinder SC buses are currently in development for both efforts and will have flight heritage within approximately one year Through the efforts of ISET and the associate prototype teams, the ORS program ha s successfully produced an extensive and well-documented set of ORS bus standards consistent with the ORS concept of operations \(CONOPS and classes of missions. The process used to produce these standards has resulted in technically sound standards which are understood, with buy in from industry. Business factors were also strongly considered to improve the transition of these standards into successful acquisition under a subsequent operational phase While ORS must provide the business foundation, these technical standards are intended to be more broadly useful in order to further volume production, standards acceptance, and the industry business cases. The ORS standards are readily available to Government organizations and payload developers SDTW employs lessons learned from decades of space flight to standardization of STP-SIV design. Flexibility is planned from the beginning and missions are adapted within the range of the SC\222s capability. Development of SC standards requires upfront investment in order to achieve a return on investment once multiple missions have been built and flown. The more PL provi ders who are willing to adopt the STP-SIV interfaces and deve lop experiments applicable to the capabilities of the SC the more successful this program will become R EFERENCES   National Research Council The Role of Small Satellites in NASA and NOAA Earth Observation Programs National Academy Press, Washington D.C., 2000  G F Squibb, \223Meeting the Needs of the Space Technology Industry,\224 ISO Focus, Oct 2005   T. P. Nosek, \223The EOS Aqua A ura Experi ence  Lessons Learned on Design, Integration, and Test of EarthObserving Satellites,\224 AIAA 2004-6060, Space 2004 Conference, Sept. 2004  Mark Barrera, Aerospace Co rp., \223Briefing: Experience from Past Spacecraft Standard ization Efforts,\224 STP-SIV Kickoff Meeting, Ball Aerospace, 27 April 2006 5 D. Bren izer, S. An d r ews, G. Ho g a n   223A Stan d a rd  Satellite Bus for National Security Space Missions,\224 MIT Lincoln Laboratory, March 2005   C Garner, M Hurl ey G. Sandhoo, E. Fi nnegan, P Stadter, B. Kantsiper, \223ORS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS4-2006-3005, AIAA 4 th Responsive Space Conference 2006, Los Ange les, California, April 24-27, 2006   G. Sandhoo, M Johnson, W R a y nor, M  Hurl ey  P Stadter, C. Schein, C. Garner, "ORS/JWS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS5-2007-3002, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007   P St adt e r, G. Sandhoo, M Hurl ey S. Vernon, P Schwartz, B. Williams, "Responsive Spacecraft Bus Implementation for Unique HEO missions Based on Standard Interfaces." AIAA-RS5-2007-4004, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007  Responsiv e Space Mission Requirements and Concept of Operations \(CONOPS\SBS-001 Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-DSB001  Res ponsive Space Launch Vehicle Interface Standards \(LVIS SBS-004, Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB002  Responsiv e Space Payload Developers Guide \(PDG Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB001  Responsiv e Space General Bus Standard GBS\er for Space Technologies Report NCST-S-SB00 


  14 B IOGRAPHY  Capt. Chris Badgett is a System Engineer for the STP-SIV at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. He previously served as developmental engineer at Air Force Research Laboratory Munitions Directorate working on a weapon data link and F-16 small munitions dispenser. He has a B.S.E.E. from University of Tennessee and an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STP-SIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology Mike Hurley is the Spacecraft Development Section Head at NRL in Washington DC. Mr. Hurley has helped shape and implement ORS and TacSat experimentation since 2002. Beginning April 2003, he was Program Manager for the Secretary of Defense\222s \(OSD\ ORS initiative, as well as the Principle Investigator for Office of Naval Research\222s \(ONR\ TacSat Innovative Naval Prototype \(INP program. In 2005 he received the DOD Civilian Meritorious Medal for his work in ORS and TacSat experimentation. He is an engineering graduate of Virginia Tech and holds an M.B.A. from George Mason University  Paul Jaffe is an electrical engineer and the Integration and Testing Section Head at the Naval Center for Space Technology at NRL. He has worked on NASA and DOD space missions, including Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory STEREO\ and TacSat-1. Recently he developed standards and led spacecraft computer hardware development for TacSat-4 as part of the DOD ORS effort He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University Hallie Walden is an Advanced Systems Manager at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. She worked as the STP-SIV Capture Manager and as the Deputy Program Manager from program inception through the Preliminary Design Review. Prior efforts include thermal, fluids, and thermodynamic analyses and design for Ball Aerospace, Lockheed Martin, and AlliedSignal \(now Honeywell\. She holds B.S.M.E and M.S.M.E. degrees from Stanford University  Alan Lopez is currently a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. in Boulder CO since 2005. He received his undergraduate degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois and began working at TRW in Redondo Beach, CA in 1985. After completing his M.S.E.E. degree at the University of Southern California in 1990, he began working at Hughes Space and Communications in El Segundo, CA  Mike Pierce is a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. He is the Chief System Engineer for the STP-SIV program and wrote the STP-SIV PLUG. Prior efforts include system modeling and simulation, mission operations, and mission design working for Spectrum Astro \(now General Dynamics\ and the USAF At Spectrum Astro, he was a key member of Discover II Space Based Infrared System\( SBIRS\ Low and Near Field Infrared Experiment \(NFIRE\ programs. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder  David Kaufmann is Program Manager for STP-SIV at Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp He also served as Program Manager for DARPA Orbital Express NextSat Commodity Spacecraft program. He previously served as a Thermal Engineer at Hughes Space and Communications Co. in El Segundo, CA. He holds a B.S. from Stanford University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in Mechanical Engineering 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


