MIRG: A Multimedia Information Retrieval GRID System  Tae-Beom Lim a Sang Boem Lim b,1 Kyoungro Yoon c James Lee a Seok-Pil Lee a  a Digital Media Research Center, Kore a Electronics Institute of Technology 68 Yatap-Dong, Bundang-Gu, Se ongnam, Kyongki-Do, Korea tblim, leejs, lspbio}@keti.re.kr  b Dept of Advanced Technology Fusion, Konkuk University 1 Hwayang-Dong, Kwangjin-Gu, Seoul, Korea sblim@konkuk.ac.kr  c School of Computer Science and Engineering, Konkuk University 1 Hwayang-Dong, Kwangjin-Gu, Seoul, Korea yoonk@konkuk.ac.kr      1  Corresponding Author  Abstract  Advanced in IT technologies change everyday people's life and also bring big change in the way of doing businesses and manufacture. Nowadays people faced with full of data that cannot be traced and managed by one person. Especially, digital multimedia contents are created and distributed by virtually everybody in the internet environments. And the information that the user want usually scattered around the multiple service providers and other user’s personal devices. We believe GRID is one of the good ways to find and acquire the digital contents easily accurately and quickly among different storage resources. This paper proposes a new GRID \(MIRG Multimedia Information Retrieval GRID\ system which provide fast and reliable multimedia in formation retrieval service based on the ETSI 102 822 standard in Web-Service environment  1. Introduction  Grid computing  i s a f r a m e w ork t o s h are  existing heterogeneous resources from different locations to resolve problems like digital contents search, retrieval, and analysis. Traditional digital contents area used to use a system and software stack developed by own projects. Weak point of this approach is comparability issues with existing systems It is very difficult to use such system with other existing systems. By using grid system, we can resolve this problem easily and also we will have better reliability and performance. When there are multiple service providers to each of which a user can send a request for information regarding the multimedia content of desire, the response time and the reliability of the response are critical measures of the system usability In the broadcast environments, base technology of processing, storing, and transmitting contents is changed from analog to digital, and the digitalization of contents can support users with various opportunities such as viewing high resolution contents storing digital contents without losses, accessing contents easily, getting more information concerned with contents, etc. As the broadcast environments and the internet environments are being converged, many broadcast service providers can provide viewers with various, exciting and distinct services from the previous broadcast services. To provide various service capabilities resulted from the convergence of broadcast and internet to the industry, service providers consumer equipment manufacturers, research institutes and academy have worked on the development of related standard technologies. One of the results of such efforts is the ETSI 102 822 standard developed by the TV-Anytime Forum. The TV-Anytime Forum is an association of organizations which seeks to develop specifications to enable audio-visual and other services based on mass-market high volume digital storage in consumer platforms - simply referred to as local storag  
International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid Information Technology 2008 978-0-7695-3328-5/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICHIT.20 433 
International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid Information Technology 2008 978-0-7695-3328-5/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICHIT.2008.173 433 


The one of major functionalities supported by the TV-Anytime Forum is the mechanism of searching the digital contents that a user wants to get. The searching mechanism in TV-Anytime Forum defines an operation to express the content of desire, an operation to get the information of the matched contents as a response, SOAP-binding t h e operat i o n s a n d t h e  operational framework including the flow and the interface of resolving the contents location and selecting the contents in the uni- and bi-directional networks. But, the standard does not provide detailed guideline of implementation As the number of contents, various types of service providers, and the TV-Anytime supporting PDRs Personal Digital Recorders\ increase, the response time of the searching and retrieval of the content and the related information could also dramatically increase This paper proposes a new GRID \(MIRG Multimedia Information Retrieval GRID\ystem which provide fast and reliable multimedia information retrieval service based on the ETSI 102 822 standard in Web-Service environment  2. Background  2.1. ETSITS 102 822 Standard  The European Telecommunications Standards Institute \(ETSI\ is an organization for producing telecommunications standards in Europe. Currently ETSI is organized by 655 members from 59 countries including manufactures, network operators administrations, service providers, research bodies and users Specially, ETSI has adopted a set of specifications established by the TV-Anytime Forum for the functionalities that enable the search, selection acquisition and rightful use of content on local and/or remote personal storage systems from both broadcast and online services. The set of ETSI TS 102 822 specifications was published in two steps, which are the phase 1 specifications and the phase 2 specifications. The phase 1 specifications were published in October 2003 to provide basic search and retrieval of contents with personalized service based on the personal digital recorder, and the phase 2 specifications were published in January 2006 to provide more advanced serv ices including targeting sharing and transfer of contents with new type of multimedia contents support TS 102 822 standard is organized in 9 parts Benchmark Features\(TS 102 822 S y s t e m  Description\(TS 102 822-2[4  h e s p eci f i cat i o n s  f o r  Metadata \(TS 102 822-3 sub-parts 2 6  3 7   and 4 [8 o n t en t R e f e re n c ing T S  102 82 24 [9   Rights Management \(TS 102 822-5 sub-parts 1 [1  and 2 [11 B i d irectio n a l M e tad a ta Deliv er y T S 1 0 2  822-6 sub-parts  an d 3 [14 Pr ot ect i o n  TS 102 822-7 [1 In terch a n g e Data F o r m a t T S  102  822-8 [1 R e m o t e Prog ra mm i n g T S 102 82 29    TS 102 822-1 and TS 102 822-2 specify the context and system architecture in which the standards for Metadata, Content referencing, Bi-directional metadata and Metadata protection interoperate. TS 102 822 3 consists of 4 sub-parts.\( “Phase 1-metadata schema”, “System aspects in a uni-directional environment”, “Phase 2-Extended Metadata schema and “Phase-2 Interstitial metadata”\ecially, TS 102 822-3 sub-part3\(Phase 2-Extended Metadata schema TS 102 822-3 sub-part4\(Phase-2 Interstitial metadata TS 102 822-6 sub-part 3\(Phase 2 - Exchange of Personal Profile\S 102 822-8\(Interchange Data Format\d TS 102 822-9\(Remote Programming\ are developed for phase 2 in TV-Anytime environments and TS 102 822-1\(Benchmark Features\S 102 822-2 System Description\, and TS 102 822-6 sub-part 1\(Service and transport\ modified and to satisfy objectives of phase 2 and to improve the previous functionalities. Because the purpose of this paper is to propose a new GRID \(MIRG: Multimedia Information Retrieval GRID\ystem on TV-Anytime environments, this paper just refers standards and technologies related to the search and retrieval of multimedia information  2.2. Digital Contents and GRID  One of the notable grid projects on the digital contents search area is DILIGENT \(A Digital Library Infrastructure on Grid Enabled Technology\ect 21 t h a t p r o v i d e s a ne xt ge ne r a t i o n e Sc i e nc e  knowledge infrastructure for researchers to collaborate by exploiting shared knowledge and physical resources DILIGENT uses Grid and Digital Library \(DL technologies as project’s core technology. Based on those technologies, DILIGENT provides four major services: typical DL functions service, third-party application and source access service, shared content and application handling service, and creation and operation of on-demand, transient digital library service. To provide those services, architecture of DILIGENT contains three layers: collective layer digital library layer, and Digital Library Layer 
434 
434 


The Collective Layer contains services that controls and manage interactions among distributed resources on the grid. Services of the Collective Layer will support the Digital Library Layer to perform complex interactions between services. The Digital Library Layer is working as typical Grid middleware that provides job submission service, indexing and discovery of digital contents service, management and processing service of these contents. Application specific services like migration of third party data and/or provide functionalities to the DLIGENT framework is provided by the Application Specific Layer  3. Message Formats for MIRG System  3.1. New Requirements  As the applications of multimedia information retrieval and the needs of users diverge, two new requirements of the multimedia information retrieval system are proposed [2  Two new requirements are MIRG System shall allow users to specify the time limit within which the server should respond with the query result and MIRG System shall allow users to signal the server/service provider whether to use Synchronous or Asynchronous mode   For the first requirement, aggregation service may issue the request from the client/user to multiple servers/service providers. The aggregation service may wait for the responses for a certain period of time to avoid excessive delay. In such a case, the delay is not controlled by the user, but by the ASP. However, the clients/users should be able to set the time limit during which they are willing to wait, e.g. three seconds within which the aggregation service gathers the responses from the service providers and send back the gathered responses to the clients And synchronous and asynchronous issues are described in second requirement. In synchronous mode client is expected to wait to receive the query result within given time limit, if any. In asynchronous mode client is expected to recei ve the acknowledgement of the query from the server immediately with the response identifier. After in time, the client may come back with the response identifier for the result of the query  3.2. The extension to the get_Data  operation of ETSI 102 822 To satisfy the new requirements proposed in of the section 3.2.1, three attributes of “immediateResponse timeout,” and “queryID,” are added to the get_Data operation defined in ETSI 102 822-6-1. The following schema describes the extended syntax of get_Data operation in XML-schema \(Figure 1 The “immediateResponse” attribute is used to select the mode of operation. The default value of this optional attribute is “true.” When either the value is true” or the attribute is not present, the client expects to receive the response immediately, i.e. to operate insynchronous mode. If the value of this attribute is complexType name="get_DataType sequence element name="ResourceID" type="tns:ResourceIDType" minOccurs="0 element name="QueryConstraints complexType choice element name="PredicateBag" type="tns:PredicateBagType element name="BinaryPredicate" type="tns:BinaryPredicateType element name="UnaryPredicate" type="tns:UnaryPredicateType choice complexType element element name="PersonalInformation" type="tva2:ExtendedUserDescriptionType minOccurs="0 element name="RequestedTables" type="tns:RequestedTablesType sequence attribute name="maxPrograms" type="unsignedInt attribute name="personalInfoUse" type="boolean" default="true attribute name="immediateResponse" type="boolean" use="optional" default="true attribute name="timeOut" type="mpeg7:durationType" use="optional attribute name="queryID" type="anyURI complexType Figure 1 The extended syntax of get_Data operation in XML-schema   
435 
435 


false,” the client is expected to receive only an response identifier for response, i.e. to operate in asynchronous mode At synchronous mode of operation, “timeout attribute represents the time limit in MPEG-7 durationType type to express the maximum expected time of delay. At asynchronous mode of operation, this attribute specifies the time duration during which the searching can be performed. The server expects the client to get the result soon after the duration specified by this attribute expires The “queryID” attribute specifies an identifier that uniquely identifies the request  3.3. The extension to the get_Data_Result  operation of ETSI 102 822  To satisfy the second requirement of 3.2.1, an identifier of a response tightly coupled with “queryID given by the get_Data operation is required \(Figure 2 so that the client can come back with the given response identifier to get the response after the timeout duration expires in asynchronous mode of operation This attribute specifies an identifier to uniquely identify each response tightly coupled with query Especially, at the asynchronous mode of operation, the server expects the client to send the query message with previous received responseID again to get the result soon after the timeOut duration expires. The responseID shall be a copy of queryID or be a newly generated ID from the server   4. Design of the MIRG System  As the related technologies and networks advances large amounts of multimedia contents are produced and distributed. The explosive proliferations of multimedia contents make users seek for technology helping to find and acquire the multimedia contents of their desire easily, accurately and quickly. But, the searching time may increase, because the information on the multimedia contents supported by a single service provider may also increase as well as the request given by the may become more complex. Also the information of user’s desire may be scattered around the multiple service providers and other user’s personal devices \(NDRs\. This paper proposes a GRID based framework to provide fast retrieval of multimedia information for TV-Anytime like service over distributed service providers and NDRs The figure 3 shows the architecture of the Multimedia Information Retrieval GRID \(MIRG system framework. The MIRG framework is divided into four layers, which are application layer, service layer, middleware layer and resource layer In the application layer there are application user portal and the content service provider portal. Through the application user portal or the client application users request the information of their need to the MIRG framework and receive the requested information from the MIRG framework. Through the content service provider portal, each service provider can register their service capability and additional information based on which each of them can be registered as a node of appropriate GRID system In the service layer, there are three types of services available, which are TV-Anytime Searching and Navigation Service \(TVASNS\iability and Similarity Resolving Service \(RSRS\d Location Resolution Service \(LRS\hese services can be provided by one or more of service resource pools. For example, TVASNS is a service provided by the TVA service resource pool, RSRS is a service provided by RSR service resource pool, and LRS can be another service provided by LR service resource pool, with aggregation service provider \(ASP\g as a broker managing these services by three independent service resource pools The middleware layer and the resource layer are sub layers of each GRID system to provide their service  complexType name="get_Data_ResultType sequence element name="TableSortingInformation type="tns:RequestedTablesType" minOccurs="0 element ref="tva:TVAMain" minOccurs="0 element ref="cr:ContentReferencingTable" minOccurs="0 element name="InvalidFragments type="tns:InvalidFragmentsType" minOccurs="0 sequence attribute name="serviceVersion" type="unsignedInt" use="required attribute name="truncated" type="boolean" use="optional  attribute name="responseID" type="anyURI use="optional   complexType Figure 2   The extension to the get_Data_Result operation of ETSI 102 822   
436 
436 


Resource Layer Resource Layer Middleware Layer Middleware Layer Application Layer Application Layer Application User Portal/Client Application Application User Portal/Client Application Scheduling Job / File Mgmt Information Service Security Contents Service Provider Portal Contents Service Provider Portal Service Layer Service Layer Contents Registry Service Contents Registry Service R & S Resolving service TVA Searching Navigation Service Location Resolution Service Metadata DB Aggregation Service Provider TVA Service Resource Pool RSR Service Resource Pool TVA Service Contents Server TVA Service Server NDR NDR LR Service Resource Pool  Figure 3 The Architecture of MIRG System Framework  where middleware layer provides functionalities of security of the transaction, job/file management scheduling of the requests and jobs, and the additional information service The resource layer is designed for resource pools to manage the actual resources required for the service And also each resource pools can be viewed as another grid system. For example, TVA Service Resource Pool contains TVASNS GRID that is including TVA metadata servers, TVA content servers and various Networked Digital Recorders \(NDRs\rough which actual search process can be performed. RSR Service Resource Pool contains the RSRS GRID through which RSRS GRID can compare and rank results based on the reliability and the similarity returned with the search results from various nodes of TVASNS GRID  5 The flow of messages in MIRG System   The figure 4 illustrates the flow of messages among a client \(PDR\Aggregation Service Provider \(ASP the Contents Service Providers, TVASNS GRID RSRS GRID, and LRS GRID First step is the content service provider creates contents and edits metadata related of contents, and store contents and metadata to each DB, and then the contents service provider publishes metadata to Aggregation Service Provider \(ASP\hrough Registry Service \(1\d the user \(PDR\ends a query message describing the information that he or her wants \(2 After the search and navigation module receives the query message from the user, it estimates whether the query can be processed by itself or not. If this module can process the request by itself, it processes the  request and returns the result to the client \(3\ it cannot process the request by itself, it sends out the request to the TVASNS GRID TVASNS GRID utilizes its nodes including the metadata service nodes of \(3 and gathers information and returns them to the search and navigation module of the ASP  006 Client Search Navigation Module Metadata DB Location Resolution Module  TVA Searching and Navigation Service GRID  Reliability and Similarity Resolving Service GRID Contents Service Provider Contents DB Aggregation service Provider 1 2 3 3 4 5 6\ CRID Selection 7 9 10\ Location Selection Metadata DB 3  Location Resolution Service GRID 8  Figure 4 Behavioral Flow of MIRG System  ASP passes the reliability and the similarity information received from various nodes of TVASNS GRID with node identifiers for each result to the RSRS GRID. RSRS GRID ranks the results from the various nodes in reliability and similarity order using its own resources as the similarity and the reliability from different nodes cannot be simply resolved. \(4\fter ASP gathers the information from the TVASNS GRID and RSRS GRID, it generates the list of CRIDs Contents Reference ID\with requested information and sends the list to the client \(5\ased on the list returned, user selects a record with CRID from the 
437 
437 


provided list of information \(6\d the client sends the selected CRID to ASP to get the content \(7 The ASP either resolves the CRID to acquire the actual location of the selected content or sends the received CRID to the Location Resolution Service GRID to get the list of actual location of the content 8\d location Resolution Module of the ASP returns the list of Locators to the user again \(9 Finally, User selects a Locator from the list of Locators, and acquires the contents \(10  6. Conclusion and Future Work  To provide fast and reliable multimedia information retrieval services based on the ETSI 102 822 standard in Web-Service environment, this paper proposes a new GRID \(MIRG:Multimedia Information Retrieval GRID\ystem which integrate three sub GRID systems which are “TVA Search and Navigation Service GRID”, “Location Resolution Service GRID and “Reliability and Similarity Resolving Service GRID”. The proposed framework has four layers which are application layer, service layer, middleware layer, and resource layer. Finally, this paper also extends two operations of ETSI 102 822 to provide functionalities that allow users to specify the time limit within which the server should respond with the query result, and to select one of two query modes. One is the synchronous mode in which a user is expected to wait to receive the query result within given time limit, and the other is the asynchronous mode in which a user is expected to receive the acknowledgement of the query from the server immediately with the response identifier, and may come back for taking the result of the query after in time The proposed GRID framework for multimedia information retrieval provides new services such as the modes of operation with fast and reliable retrieval of multimedia information based on the ETSI 102 822 standard One of the future work can be studies on distributing the queries to members of “TVA Search and Navigation Service GRID” based on those histories of response accuracy that is computed by “Reliability and Similarity Resolving Service GRID” are necessary  7. References   T V A ny ti m e F o rum  h o m e pag e  www t v anytime.org  M PEG 7 Q u er y F o r m at R e qu i r e m ent s N 8780 ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11  T S I  T S 10 2 82 21  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, an d rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV-Anytime"\; Part 1: Benchmark Features  T S I  T S 10 2 82 22  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, an d rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV-Anytime"\; Part 2: System description  T S I  T S 10 2 82231  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, an d rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV-Anytime"\; Part 3: Metadata; Sub-part 1: Phase 1 – Metadata schemas  T S I  T S 10 2 82232  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, an d rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV Anytime"\ Part 3: Metadata; Sub-part 2: System aspects in a unidirectional environment  T S I  T S 10 2 82233  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, an d rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV-Anytime"\; Part 3: Metadata; Sub-part 3: Phase 2 – Extended Metadata Schema  T S I  T S 10 2 82234  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, an d rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV-Anytime"\; Part 3: Metadata; Sub-part 4: Phase 2 – Interstitial metadata  T S I T S 10 2 8224 Broadcas t an d O n  l i n e  Services: Search, select, an d rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV-Anytime"\; Part 4: Content referencing  T S I  T S 10 2 82 251  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TVAnytime"\; Part 5: Rights Management and Protection \(RMP\ub-part 1: Information for Broadcast Applications  T S I  T S 10 2 82 252  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TVAnytime"\; Part 5: Rights Management and Protection \(RMP\ub-part 2: RMPI binding  T S I  T S 10 2 82 261  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV Anytime"\ Part 6: Delivery of metadata over a bi-directional network; Sub-part 1: Service and transport  T S I  T S 10 2 82 262  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TVAnytime"\ Part 6: Delivery of metadata over a bi-directional network; Sub-part 2: Phase 1 Service discovery  T S I  T S 10 2 82 263  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of 
438 
438 


content on personal storage systems \("TVAnytime"\ Part 6: Delivery of metadata over a bi-directional network; Sub-part 3: Phase 2 Exchange of Personal Profile  T S I  T S 1 02 8 227  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TVAnytime Phase 1"\art 7: Bi-directional metadata delivery protection  T S I  T S 1 02 8 228  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TV Anytime"\art 8: Phase 2 - Interchange Data Format  T S I  T S 1 02 8 229  B roadcas t an d O n l i n e  Services: Search, select, and rightful use of content on personal storage systems \("TVAnytime"\art 9: Phase 2 - Remote Programming 18  B e rm a n F., Fo x  G. an d He y  T   T h e Grid p a st  present, future, Grid Computing - Making the Global Infrastructure a Reality, 2003, pp 9-47  t er, C  Kes s e l m an  eds T h e Grid: B l u e prin t  for a New Computing Infrastructure, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, Calif. \(1999  I L I G E N T pr o j ect h o m e pag e   http://www.diligentproject.org   O A P V e rs i on 1.2 Part 1  http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-soap12-paer120030624    
439 
439 


 Fig. 5 F-Measure of clustering using combination of vector space and Citonomy with W 3 W 5 W 6 1:15:1   It is clear that the more weight we assign to vector space measure, the closer the result is to that of using vector space measure only; the more weight we assign to the Citonomy measure, the closer the result is that of using the Citonomy measure only. Fig. 5 confirms this by plotting the average F-Measure of different W 1 W 2 ratios with W 3 W 5 W 6 1:15:1 To test the weights we get from the training data we generated another set of corpora with same categories shown in Table 3 but with different papers and sizes. Table 5 shows the result of clusterings on these corpora   Table 5. F-Measure \(%\f clusterings on test data of same categories  W 1 W 2  W 3 W 5 W 6  1:0 10:1 1:5:1 15:1 1:5:1 20:1 1:5:1 15:1 1:10:1 Corpus ID 1 82.6 91.7 91.7 95.8 93.9 2 90.9 100 100 100 100 3 44.7 81.4 82.5 82.4 82.4 4 93.1 91.7 91.7 90.4 91.7 5 83 84.5 91.8 92.3 91.8 6 59.2 61.1 61.7 61.7 61.9 7 66.5 68.5 69.5 64.9 67.8 8 73.7 74 73.5 73 73 9 58.3 72.6 72.5 72.1 72.5 10 67.5 66.7 65.2 58.3 63.5 Average 72.0 79.2 80.0 79.1 79.9 Standard deviation 15.6 12.7 13.3 15.1 13.9   Table 4 shows that the clusterings using Formula 3\prove by around 10% compared to using only VSM. Table 5 shows us the consistency of the behavior of this semantic clustering using Formula \(3 with the best weights. To test the robustness of the approach against, we generated a noisy set of corpora by mixing the last four categories in Table 2 with the first eight categories which were used in training data Table 6 shows these corpora   Table 6. Test corpora with noise  ID Document Categories involved Paper 1 AIDS Res Ther, BMC Cardiovasc Disord 51 2 AIDS Res Ther, BMC Oral Health 40 3 AIDS Res Ther, BMC Cancer, BMC Infect Dis 64 4 AIDS Res Ther, Behav Brain Funct BMC Biochem, BMC Cancer 84 5 AIDS Res Ther, BMC Cancer, BMC Cardiovasc Disord, BMC Oral Health Cough 103 6 Behav Brain Funct, BMC Biochem BMC Cancer, BMC Infect Dis, BMC Oral Health, Cough 130 7 Behav Brain Funct,  BMC Biochem BMC Blood Disord, BMC Cancer BMC Infect Dis, BMC Oral Health Cough 150 8 AIDS Res Ther, Behav Brain Funct BMC Blood Disord, BMC Cancer BMC Endocr Disord, BMC Oral Health, BMC Plant Biol, Cough 170 9 AIDS Res Ther, Behav Brain Funct BMC Blood Disord, BMC Cancer BMC Cardiovasc Disord, BMC Neurol, BMC Oral Health, BMC Plant Biol, Cough 204 10 Behav Brain Funct,  BMC Blood Disord, BMC Cancer, BMC Cardiovasc Disord, BMC Endocr Disord, BMC Infect Dis, BMC Neurol BMC Oral Health, BMC Plant Biol Cough 221   Table 7 shows the results of clusterings on these test data with different categories from training data The improvements \(compared with VSM baseline in the 1:0 column\ our trained model are still around 10% despite the addition of documents from additional categories to serve as noise    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


   Table 7. F-Measure \(%\f clusterings on test data with noise  W 1 W 2  W 3 W 5 W 6   1:0 10:1 1:5:1 15:1 1:5:1 20:1 1:5:1 15:1 1:10:1 Corpus ID 1 98 100 100 100 100 2 87.4 90 92.5 95 92.5 3 39.4 76 76 77.3 76 4 81.7 86.8 88 88 86.8 5 69.8 69.8 88.2 89.3 87.1 6 82.4 82.5 84.3 84.2 85.1 7 69.5 78.4 77.8 78.9 79.2 8 74.5 76.9 75.2 75.2 76.4 9 78.3 84.7 86.3 85.2 83.6 10 58.3 63.8 62.3 55.7 59.2 Average 73.9 80.9 83.1 82.9 82.6 Standard deviation 16.3 10.3 10.6 12.3 11.0  5. Conclusion and future work  We have presented a new approach to document clustering in this paper that utilizes citation semantics as a similarity measure. Using experimental analysis we have demonstrated that the accuracy of clustering on incorporation of citation semantics is improved by 5-10  compared to using only the vector space measure An important consideration in machine learning applications is the cost benef it ratio. Ideally, the gain in performance should be worth the complexity of the approach. The non-optimized Citonomy pipeline used in this paper took about twice the time that the use of VSM alone takes. Though the use of Citonomy entails the use of several additional steps, these operate on a small subset of the data space, can be fully automated and several of the steps can be executed in parallel Therefore, running time can be potentially improved especially with removal of the combinatorial steps that were included for comparative validation. Further since this is an independent modular addition to the process of clustering, and essentially a pre-processing step for generating a pair-wise distance measure for documents with citations, it can be combined with essentially any clustering approach. Given that the resulting improvement is substantial and the extra cost is a linear addition that can potentially be minimized we feel the cost benefit ratio is high enough for this approach to be useful in practice While the degree of improvement may depend on the choice of documents to be clustered,  we speculate that the present report represents a lower bound and the contribution of Citonomy is likely to be higher in differentiating between subsets of closely related documents, in contrast to the coarse problem of journal-wise classification evaluated here. This is because Citonomy may be seen as an attempt to include semantics that stem from a consideration of spatial locality of terms, and from explicit links specificied by the authors of documents. Both these factors should lend themselves to a higher degree of discernment, as they go beyond considering only the independent occurrence of terms in a pure VSM approach. Further, the approach may be used as a distance measure not just for research papers, but essentially any documents that embed citations to other documents Future work may include the use of this approach on diverse types of document sets to establish its robustness. It may also be refined by using underlying domain ontologies for systematic recognition of matching terms, rather than performing only string matching as in the present work. Running time can also be improved by automating connections between the various steps and by judicious use of the values for the parameters that yield the best performance for the training sets   6. References  1. Berkhin, P Survey of clustering data mining techniques 2002 2 G. Salton, A.W., C.S. Yang A vector space model for automatic indexing Communications of the ACM, 1975 3 C.J. van Rijsbergen, S.E.R.a.M.F.P New models in probabilistic information retrieval in British Library Research and Development Report 1980 British Library: London 4 A. McCallum, K.N., L. H. Ungar Efficient clustering of high-dimensional data sets with application to reference matching in the sixth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining 2000 5 F. Beil, M.E., X. Xu Frequent term-based text clustering in SIGKDD 02 2002. Edmonton Alberta, Canada 6. I. Yoo, X.H Biomedical ontology MeSH improves document clustering qualify on MEDLINE articles A comparison study in 19th IEEE Symposium on computer-based medical systems 2006 7 A. Hotho, A.M., and A. Staab Text clustering based on good aggregations Kunstliche Intelligenz KI\02 16 4\: p. 48-54 8 C. Lee Giles, K.D.B., S. Lawrence CiteSeer: An automatic citation indexing System in the third ACM conference on digital libraries 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 9. Geyer, C.J Practical Markov chain Monte Carlo  Statistical Science, 1992 7 4\: p. 473-511 10. Hansmann, U Parallel tempering algorithm for conformational studies of biological molecules  ArXiv:physics, 1997 1 29 11. S. Chib, E.G Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation methods in econometrics  Econometrics Theory, 1996 12 3\409-431 12 MeSH cited; Available from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?db=mesh  13 J. Bakus, M.F.H., and M. Kamel A SOM-based document clustering using phrases in the 9th international conference on neural information proceeding 2006 14. Garfield, E Where was this paper cited Current Contents, 1994 15. Cameron, R.D A universal citation database as a catalyst for reform in scholarly communication  First Monday, 1997 2 4 16. Garfield, E The concept of citation indexing: A unique and innovative tool for navigating the research literature Current Contents, 1994 17 M. Day, T.T., C. Sung, C. Lee, S. Wu, C. Ong, W Hsu A knowledge based approach to citation extraction in International conference on information reuse and integration, IEEE 2005 18. Takasu, A Bibliographic attribute extraction from erroneous references based on statistical model in the 2003 joint ACM/IEEE conference on Digital Libraries 2003 19 H. Han, L.G., H. Zha Two supervised  learning approaches for  name disambiguation in author citations in the 2004 joint ACM/IEEE conference on Digital Libraries 2004 20 H. Han, H.Z., L. Giles Name disambiguation in author citations using a K-way spectral clustering method in The 2005 joint ACM/IEEE conference on Digital Libraries 2005 21 S. Teufel, A.S., D. Tidhar Automatic classification of citation function in the 2006 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing 2006 22 P. Nakov, A.S., M. Hearst Citances: Citation sentences for semantic analysis of  bioscience text  in the SIGIR 04 workshop on Search and Discovery in Bioinformatics 2004 23 Kaufman, L. and P.J. Rousseeuw Finding Groups in Data in An Introduction to Cluster Analysis  1990, John Wiley & Sons: Brussels, Belgium 24 van Rijsbergen, C.J., S.E. Robertson, and M.F Porter New models in probabilistic information retrieval 1980, London: British Library 25 Markov Clustering Algoritm cited; Available from: http://micans.org/mcl 26. Levenshtein, V.I Binary codes capable of correcting deletions, insertions, and reversals  Soviet Physics Doklady 1966 10 p. 707 710 27 PubMed Central cited; Available from http://www.pubmedcentral.nih gov/about/ftp.html 28. Rijsbergen, C.J.v Information retrieval 2 ed 1979, London: University of Glasgow   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


