Software Stage-Effort Estimation Based on Association Rule Mining and Fuzzy Set Theory  Mohammad Azzeh Peter I. Cowling Daniel Neagu Department of Computing University of Bradford Bradford, BD7 1DP Department of Computing University of Bradford Bradford, BD7 1DP Department of Computing University of Bradford Bradford, BD7 1DP M.Y.A.Azzeh@bradford.ac.uk P.I.Cowling@bradford.ac.uk D.Neagu@bradford.ac.uk  Abstract-Relaying on early effort estimation to predict the required number of resources is not often sufficient, and could lead to under or over estimation. It is widely acknowledge that that software development process should be refined regularly and that software prediction made at early stage of software development is yet kind of guesses. Even good predictions are not sufficient with inherent uncertainty and risks. The stage-effort estimation allows project manager to re-allocate correct number of resources, re-schedule project and control project progress to finish on time and within budget. In this paper we propose an approach to utilize prior effort records to predict stage effort. The proposed model combines concepts of Fuzzy set theory and association rule mining. The results were good in terms of prediction accuracy and have potential to deliver good stage-effort estimation  Keywords: Stage Effort Estimation, Association Rule Mining Fuzzy Set Theory  I. INTRODUCTION  Software effort estimation has long been and still a complex task for software industries [6, 7, 8, 9]. Due to dramatic changes in software development tools methods, and methodologies, software applications 


become more complex, time to market is shortened and the need to produce software at reasonable cost with high quality is the target of most organizations [1 2]. Consequentially, a reliable and accurate early software effort estimation model is required in inception phase and particularly when bidding for a contract or making appropriate decisions Unfortunately, this is not enough. Several surveys and reports [3, 5] revealed that 16% of 8000 complete projects only were delivered within budget and time while 31% were cancelled before completion, and 53 were overrun in budget and schedule which resulted in project failure. Other authors [3, 4] showed that some 60% of large projects significantly overrun their estimates \(with an error percentage that can vary from 100% to 200 never completed due to the gross misestimating of development effort [4 It is widely recognized that software development is a process of gradual refinement [10, 11], and that software effort estimation performed at early stage is not sufficient to be relied on until end of the project 11]. Even good early estimates are only guesses, with inherent uncertainty and risks. In other words, the developers cannot depend on these estimates throughout software development without any sense of update to current project progress, because it eventually leads to expected overestimation or underestimation problems. This presses the need to dynamically predict the software effort during project progress in order to update the project schedule, thus to finish on time and within budget. In this context, we understand that software effort estimation is a dynamic process and it needs gradual refinement during software development process to keep the project schedule under control and reduce associated risks In this paper we investigate the significant impact of using effort records of prior stages to develop an evolving picture of the potential effort for next stage Stage is often a software life cycle phase such as requirements, design, coding, testing, and implementation [12]. Currently, most of the proposed 


approaches use statistical methods to map between prior stages and next stage [13]. These methods revealed that is difficult to predict next stage effort based on prior stages effort; in addition they usually require a large amount of data or data that have a certain statistical distribution [12 The objective of the present paper is to propose a model that can predict stage-effort based on prior stage efforts. We combine the concepts of Fuzzy set theory 25] and association rule mining [22] to build such a model. Using association rule mining enables us to explore the hidden knowledge between prior effort stages and next effort stage. The Fuzzy set theory [25 was used to deal with linguistic terms that derived after partitioning a dataset to a number of intervals. Each interval is represented by a corresponding Fuzzy set 978-0-7695-4108-2/10 $26.00  2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CIT.2010.76 249 2010 10th IEEE International Conference on Computer and Information Technology \(CIT 2010 which will be used for approximate reasoning to predict effort of target stage The rest of the paper is structured as follows: in section II we review the stage effort estimation approaches. Section III presents an overview of Fuzzy set theory. We then introduce an overview of association rule mining in section IV. The proposed approach is discussed in section V.  The results of the empirical validation are discussed in sections VI and VII, followed by conclusions of our study and recommendations for future work  II. RELATED WORKS  Although much researches have been carried out in the context of software effort estimation [15, 16, 17 18], very little research effort has been put into the area of software stage-effort estimation. The term stage has been used in different contexts where some of them considered it as phase of software development lifecycle [13, 14] and others considered as calendar month [12 


MacDonell & Shepperd [13] investigated the potential of using prior effort data records to develop stage effort estimation. The model was built over sixteen projects collected from a single organization The developed model revealed that there was no improvement on estimation accuracy when using only regression techniques. In contrast, they showed that prediction could be improved when combining regression technique with expert estimates.  Ohlsson et al. [14] used phase-based data \(proxy of requirements, flowcharts, number of test case, etc. to build a stage-effort prediction model using regression analysis. They injected each stage with several related proxies to improve prediction accuracy. The analysis based on 26 projects showed that no single proxy was found to be a good measure for stage effort prediction This result emphasizes the need to make appropriate decisions regarding proxy selection. The authors came to conclude that it is difficult to improve stage effort prediction during software development, at least if the early estimation was fairly good In the other direction, Wang and colleagues [12 built a gray learning method based on GM\(1,1 stage effort prediction, where the stage in their study was a calendar month. They claimed it is more frequently used by managers to plan and control the progress of a project. Thus, the manager needs to predict project schedule regularly. Results on 10 datasets demonstrated that the model has a considerable potential to deliver good stage estimation III. FUZZY SET THEORY  Fuzzy set theory as introduced by Zadeh [25 provides a representation scheme and mathematical operations for dealing with uncertain, imprecise and vague concepts. Fuzzy logic is a combination of a set of logical expressions with Fuzzy sets. Zadeh [25 defined the meaning of the membership for Fuzzy sets to be a continuous number between zero and one. Each Fuzzy set is described by membership function such as Triangle, Trapezoidal, Gaussian, etc., which assigns a membership value between 0 and 1 for each real point 


on universe of discourse  IV. ASSOCIATION RULE MINING  Association rule mining is one of the important techniques in data mining [19] which aims to discover the associations and frequent patterns amongst set of items in a particular database [20, 21]. It has been successfully applied in various fields such as: market management [19], product purchasing logs of retail stores [20], website traffic logs [21] and classification 22]. Below we explain the association rule technique in more details Let D be database of different transaction records I= {I1, I2, I3, I4, Im} be a set of m distinct binary attribute values called items [19, 20].  Each transaction T?D is a set of items such that T ? I. Association rule is an implication in the form A=>B which means that whenever T contains A, then T also contains B with specified confidence [21, 22], where A, B ? I are sets of items called itemsets. Since the data base is large and users only concern about frequent interesting patterns, there are two measures used to capture the statistical strength of a pattern: support and confidence 19, 20]. Support is an indicator of rule frequency. The rule confidence is the probability that consequent B will follow antecedent A and is expressed as the percentage of transactions containing A and B to the overall number of transactions containing A. The predefined thresholds for interesting association rule are called minimal support and minimal confidence respectively [19, 20, 21 Most of association rule mining algorithms are not applicable to software engineering data because these data are often represented in numeric scale but the algorithms deal only with categorical \(nominal 20, 23]. In this paper we would like to extend the association rule technique to take of advantage of the numeric values by distributing them to intervals as discussed in the next section, and then represent each interval with nominal data. All extracted association rules should be filtered according to target stage. For 


250 example, if the target stage prediction is the design phase then all extracted rules that contain design phase as consequent only should be filtered  V. THE PROPOSED APPROACH  The proposed approach combines the concepts of Fuzzy set theory [25] and association rule mining [19 20]. The Fuzzy set theory [25] is used to represent the corresponding linguistic variables for each interval instead of representing them as crisp interval. Thus this should help us to derive the final prediction after determining the corresponding Fuzzy set for the target stage. Determining the corresponding Fuzzy set for the target stage is performed by using association rule which attempts to find confident rules between prior stage\(s described by 5 steps as explained below  Step1: define the universe of discourse U for each stage in historical dataset, then divide it into several equal intervals \(lengths Dmin Dmax discourse is determined. Consequentially, based on Dmin and Dmax we define the universe U as [Dmin-D1 Dmax+D2] where D1 and D2 are two proper positive numbers used to make the universe U more clear containing all possible values in the dataset. After that each U should be partitioned into a number of equal intervals where the number and length of intervals should be predefined by estimator. Assuming n is the number of intervals then the length of interval L is calculated as follows L n DDDD  1min2max ??+  \(1 Then each interval is defined as follows  niiLDDLiDDWi   2max1min \(2 For example, suppose the specification stage has the following boundary: \(Dmin=22 Dmax=162 


simplicity we choose D1=12 and D2=8, thus the universe of discourse for the specification stage is defined as U=[10 , 170]. This means that based on available historical data the effort records of specification stage is delimited between 10 to 170 man- months. Let U be divided into four equal intervals with equal length as following L= [ ] 40 4      with: W1 =[10, 50 W4 =[130, 170  Step 2: define a corresponding linguistic variable Fuzzy set discourse U. This step has been used intensively in Fuzzy time series. The number of Fuzzy sets must be related to the number of intervals. Let A1, A2,A3,,An be Fuzzy sets represent linguistic terms where A1 is defined as depicted in eq. 3    3  where  jA Wi? is the membership degree of interval jW in Fuzzy set iA n corresponds to the number of intervals Therefore the linguistic terms A1, A2 , A3 ,,An will be defined as follows 0,/0,/0......,/0,/0,/5.0,/1{ 1243211 nnn WWWWWWWA 0,/0,/0......,/0,/5.0,/1,/5.0{ 1243212 nnn WWWWWWWA   1,/5.0,/0...../0.,/0,/.0,/0{ 124321 nnnn WWWWWWWA Based on the previous example in step 1, the possible Fuzzy sets for the four intervals W1 , W2 ,W3 ,W4 should be defined as follows 0,0,5.0,1 43211 WWWW A 0,5.0,1,5.0 


43212 WWWW A 5.0,1,5.0,0 43213 WWWW A 1,5.0,0,0 43214 WWWW A  Step 3: determine the target stage and discover association rules between prior stage\(s stage. In this step we used predictive APRIORI algorithm [22] that is implemented in WEKA data mining tool [26]. The minimum support is set by 0.01 and minimum confidence is set by 0.8. These values have been carefully chosen to avoid too few rules that would occur if the confidence was very high In this paper we will replace the name of all stages with the following abbreviations. The number preceding the abbreviation represents the order of stage in software development process. \(1 planning stage. \(2 3 4 building stage. \(5 6 Effort of implementation stage 251 Step 4: filtering extracted rules. All generated rules are filtered to obtain interesting rules that contain specified target as consequent and all rules should respect stage order integrity. This means that all stages in antecedent parts should not precede target stage in consequent part. For example, if the target stage is the design phase: ED then all rules that contain this phase only as consequent will be considered for further processing and others are neglected. The following rules are accepted for further processing, the number after abbreviation denotes corresponding Fuzzy set interval EP1=>ED4 ES2 and EP3=>ED2 Conversely, the following rules are neglected because there have problems in either antecedent or 


consequent part EP1 and ES2=>ED1 & ET3: because ED1 should appear alone in consequent part ES1 and EI=>ED1: because EI cannot precede ED  Step 5: calculate the predicted output. Firstly defuzzify all expected outputs with regards to target stage 2,1        1 1 ni W WmW Adefuzz n j jA n j jjA i i i        4  where jWm is the centre value of expected interval of target stage in historical dataset. Secondly, the estimated effort is calculated by computing the weight average of defuzzification values. The weight here is confidence ratio of extracted rules as shown in Eq. 5 For example suppose we want to predict specification stage of a project. Consider prior stage is software plan phase and its effort value is located in 


the first interval \(EP1 following rules have been extracted EP1=>ES4 \(confidence= 0.932 EP1=>ES3 \(confidence= 0.843 EP1=>ES1 \(confidence= 0.78 Then corresponding Fuzzy sets that represent expected target stage based on previous rules should be defuzzfied. From this example we can observe that the input interval has many relations with target intervals i.e. EP1 has three significant relations with ES4, ES3 and ES2 in the specification phase. Therefore we need to take their impacts on the final estimate. The effort for specification phase stage is calculated as following      k i i k i ii confidencerule confidenceruleAdefuzz E 1 1   5 where k is the number of rules  15.000  1 5.0 0 0  43214    WmWmWmWm Adefuzz ES  


5.015.00  5.0 1 5.0 0  43213    WmWmWmWm Adefuzz ES  005.01  0 0 5.0 1  43211    WmWmWmWm Adefuzz ES  Assume 70 55 35 20 4321 ==== WmWmWmWm then 65 4 =ESAdefuzz , 75.53 3 =ESAdefuzz 25 1 =ESAdefuzz  By using equation 5 the predicted effort is  78.0843.0932.0  78.0 843.0 932.0 234    ESESES AdefuzzAdefuzzAdefuzzE monthsmanE ?= 08.49    VI. EVALUATION CRITERIA  Many evaluation criteria are introduced in software engineering literature, among them we selected three evaluation criteria are Bias, Mean Magnitude of relative errors \(MMRE relative errors \(MdMRE 6 


to check whether the proposed prediction model is biased and tends to under or over estimation. MMRE in equation \(7 in an individual estimate and should be less than 25 to be acceptable. Since the MMRE is sensitive to the individual prediction with large MRE we adopt median MRE \(MdMRE value of MRE. The acceptable target for MMRE and MdMRE is less or equal to25  i ii actual estimatedactualiBias 6    n i iBias n MMRE 1  1  \(7 252 iiBiasmedianMdMRE  8 VII. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  The dataset used in empirical validation came from ISBSG [24]. The obtained dataset contains effort records for six phases are: plan effort \(EP specification effort \(ES ED effort \(EB ET effort \(EI processing we attempted to select the most representative data, therefore we ignored the projects records that contain missing values Determining the possible number of intervals in each stage is carried out based on the distribution of effort data in each stage as shown in Figures 1 to 6 There is no clear mechanism for how to determine the 


perfect number of intervals therefore we attempted to study density of data for each stage separately. The performed analysis resulted in different number of intervals between stages. The obtained number of intervals reflects the density and range of data in each stage as shown in Table I. For Association rule mining the minimum support is set by 0.01 and minimum confidence is set by 0.8. These values have been carefully chosen to avoid too few rules that would occur if the confidence was very high The theme of this paper is to address the following arising issue: can project manager relay on prior effort records to predict next stage effort? To answer this question, the proposed model has been evaluated using jack-knifing method. We used 34 projects with complete effort records. The complete procedure of experiment is described below 1. Project number i is removed from data set as test project \(i.e. for which the stage estimate is required 2. The proposed procedure applied on the remaining projects 3. Making prediction for the test project, and MRE and residuals of test project is recorded 4. Project i, which had been removed from the data set is added back Table II and Table III depict the results obtained by our proposed approach compared to exponential regression where target stage is regarded as dependent variable and all pervious stages as independent variables Table II we can observe that all outputs tend to be under estimation. Three out of five stages producing good estimate are specification, building and testing while design stage produced better results compared to implementation stage \(which produced the worst stage effort estimation in terms of MMRE related to that the ISBSG is scattered as result of collection from different worldwide companies. The effort records have complex structure in which there is no consistent structure for all effort records. Based on MdMRE we can observe that our approach in most of stages produced comparable estimation accuracy with maximum 30.2% in implementation stage 


 Table I.  Number of intervals Stage Interval No. Stage Interval No EP 7 ES 8 ED 10 EB 9 ET 8 EI 11  Table II.  Results using the proposed approach Stage Bias MMRE MdMRE ES -8.5% 27.0% 17.0 ED -33.1% 40.5% 13.7 EB -2.8% 9.3% 7.5 ET -11.6% 16.7% 7.23 EI -20% 91.0% 30.2  Table III.  Results using exponential regression Stage Bias MMRE MdMRE ES -24.3% 81.3% 49.7 ED -72.3% 120.4% 54.224 EB 0.7% 44.35% 37.6 ET -45.4% 81.1% 39.0 EI -179% 184% 104.0  Results shown in Table III revealed that most of predictions are under estimation which supports our approach findings. The best estimation accuracy was obtained in building stage, which also corroborates our findings that best estimation accuracy was in building stage. The negative values in Bias criterion show underestimation. It is acknowledged that MMRE is unbalanced in many validation circumstances and leads to overestimation more than underestimation. In our case, we found that MMRE leads to underestimation in most stages. This is may be related to the absence of systematic scheme between all prior effort records   253   Figure 1. Effort distribution of Planning stage 


Figure 2. Effort distribution of Specification stage Figure 3. Effort distribution of Design effort stage  Figure 4. Effort distribution of Building stage Figure 5. Effort distribution of Testing stage Figure 6. Effort distribution of Imp stage   Table IV. Statistical significance Stage sum rank Z-value p-Value ES 769 -4.31 <0.01 ED 713 -5.03 <0.01 EB 685 -5.4 <0.01 ET 595 -6.54 <0.01 EI 799 -3.93 <0.01  The comparison between our approach and exponential regression technique showed that there are considerable improvements in estimation accuracy on all phases of software development lifecycle. MMREs of our approach have been reduced by at least 35.05 and at most 93%. Biases have been reduced by at least 3.5% and at most 159%.We have to bear in mind that the length of interval plays important role in estimation accuracy, thus, when the universe of discourse is partitioned into several equal intervals, the distribution of data should be taken into account. Moreover, we should remove the extreme values because they affect interval partitioning, thus, estimation accuracy Figures 7 to 11 show comparison between proposed approach and exponential regression in each stage by using Boxplot. The Boxplot [17] offers a way to compare between estimation models based on their absolute residuals. The Boxplot is non-parametric statistics used to show the median as central tendency of distribution, interquartile range and the outliers of individual models [17]. The length of Boxplot from 


lower tail to upper tail shows the spread of the distribution. The length of box represents the interquartile range that contains 50% of observations The position of median inside the box and length of Boxplot indicate the skewness of distribution. A Boxplot with a small box and long tails represents a very peaked distribution while a Boxplot with long box represents a flatter distribution. The prominent and common characteristic among these figures is the spread of absolute residuals for our approach is less than spread of exponential regression which presents more accurate results. The larger interquartile of exponential regression indicates a high dispersion of the absolute residuals. The Boxplot revealed that the box length for our models is smaller than exponential regression which also indicates reduced variability of absolute residuals. The median of our model is smaller than median of exponential regression which revealed that at least half of the predictions of our model are more accurate than exponential regression 254  Figure 7. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the specification stage  Figure 8. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the design stage   Figure 9. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the building stage Figure 10. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the testing stage   The lower tails of our model is much smaller than upper tail which means the absolute residuals are skewed towards the smaller value Figure 11 illustrates the reason of why prediction of implementation stage in our approach produced the worst accuracy. The reason related to the existing of outlier. Although one project is considered as an outlier the MMRE is easily influenced with that project Based on the obtained results, we can observe that 


exponential regression gave bad accuracy. The reason may relate to the structure complexity of prior effort records. There is no correlation between all prior stages and target stage To ensure that the results obtained are not by chance we investigated the statistical significance of the proposed approach using Wilcoxon sum rank test for absolute residuals as shown in Table IV. In this test if the resulting p-value is small \(p<0.05 statistically significant difference can be accepted between the two samples median. The residuals obtained using the proposed approach were significantly different from those obtained by exponential regression Suggesting that, there is difference if the predications generated using the proposed approach or exponential regression and based on the accuracy comparison in Tables II and III we can safely conclude that our proposed method outperformed exponential regression for stage effort estimation Figure 11. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the implementation stage  VIII. CONCLUSIONS Some of software projects are failed due to the absence of re-estimation during software development which results in huge gap between initial plan and final outcome. Even with good estimate at first stage the project manager must keep update with project progress and should be able to re-estimate the project at any particular point of project in order to re-allocate the proper number of resources. The objective of this paper was to check whether the prior effort records can 255 be used to predict stage effort with reasonable accuracy or not. The obtained results revealed that using association rule and Fuzzy set theory lead to significant improvement in stage-effort estimation and give project manager an evolving picture about project progress. Comparing our approach with exponential regression showed that there is a considerable potential in estimation accuracy. As part of future plan, we 


intend to expand this work to involve some interesting features in each stage prediction and evaluate it on many datasets   REFERENCES  1] F. Ricardo, N. Ana, M. Paula, B. Gleidson, R. Fabiano ODE: Ontology-based software Development Environment, Proceedings of the IX Argentine Congress on Computer Science, pp. 1124-1135, 2003 2] E. Mendes, B. A. Kitchenham. Further comparison of cross-company and within-company effort estimation models for Web applications. In: Proc. 10th IEEE International Software Metrics Symposium, Chicago USA, pp.348-357, 2004 3] B. Boehm, R. Valerdi. Achievements and Challenges in Software Resource Estimation, Proceedings of ICSE 06 Shanghai, China, pp. 74-83,  2006 4] K. Molokken, M. Jorgensen. A review of software surveys on software effort estimation, Proceedings of International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering \(ISESE 2003 5] M. Jorgensen, K. Molokken-Ostvold. How large are software cost overruns? A review of the 1994 CHAOS report, Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48 issue 4. PP. 297-301, 2006 6] X. Huanga, D. Hob, J. Rena, L. F. Capretz. Improving the COCOMO model using a neuro-Fuzzy approach Applied Soft Computing, Vol.7, issue 1, pp. 29-40, 2007 7] L. Briand, T. Langley, I. Wieczorek. A replicated assessment and comparison of common software cost modeling techniques, Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on Software Engineering, 2000 8] S.-J Huang, N. H. Chiu. Optimization of analogy weights by genetic algorithm for software effort estimation Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48, issue 11 pp. 1034-1045, 2006 9] Z. Xu, T. M. Khoshgoftaar. Identification of Fuzzy models of software cost estimation, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Vol. 145, issue 1, pp. 141-163, 2004 10] R. Pressman. Software Engineering: practitioner 


approaches, McGraw Hill, London, 2004 11] M. Boraso, C. Montangero, H. Sedhi. Software cost estimation: an experimental study of model performance Universita di Pisa, Italy, 1996 12] Y. Wang, Q. Song, J. Shen., 2007. Grey Learning Based Software Stage-Effort Estimation. International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pp 1470-1475, 2007 13] S. G. MacDonell, M. J. Shepperd. Using prior-phase effort records for re-estimation during software projects Ninth International, Software Metrics Symposium, pp 73- 86, 2003 14] M .C Ohlsson, C. Wohlin. An Empirical Study of Effort Estimation during Project Execution, Sixth International Software Metrics Symposium \(METRICS'99 1999 15] N. H. Chiu,,S. J. Huang.  The adjusted analogy-based software effort estimation based on similarity distances Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 80, issue 4, pp 628-640, 2007 16] P. Sentas, L. Angelis, I. Stamelos, G.  Bleris. Software productivity and effort prediction with ordinal regression Information and Software Technology, Vol. 47, issue 1 pp. 17-29, 2005 17] E. Mendes, N. Mosley. Comparing effort prediction models for Web design and authoring using boxplots Australian Computer Science Communications,  Vol. 23 Issue 1, pp. 125-133, 2001 18] E. Mendes, N. Mosley, I. Watson. A comparison of casebased reasoning approaches, Proceedings of the 11th international conference on World Wide Web, pp. 272280, 2002 19] Q. Zhao, S. S. Bhowmick. Association Rule Mining: A Survey  http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/734613.html, 2003 20] S. Morisak, A. Monden, H. Tamada. An Extension of association rule mining for software engineering data repositories, Information Science Technical Report NAIST, 2006 21] Q. Song, M. Shepperd.  M. Cartwright, C. Mair. Software defect association mining and defect correction effort prediction, IEEE transaction on software engineering Vol. 32, No.2, pp. 69-82, 2006 


22] R. Agrawal, T. Amielinski, A. Swami. Mining association rule between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207-216, 1993 23] M-J. Huang, Y-L. Tsou, S-C. Lee.  Integrating Fuzzy data mining and Fuzzy artificial neural networks for discovering implicit knowledge, J. Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol.19 \(6 24] ISBSG International Software Benchmarking standards Group, Data repository release 10, Site http://www.isbsg.org, 2007 25] L. Zadeh. Toward a theory of Fuzzy information granulation and its centrality in human reasoning and Fuzzy logic. J. Fuzzy sets and Systems 90, pp. 111-127 1997 26] I. H. Witten, E. Frank. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques, 2nd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2005   256 


encountering a related term, i.e. IC\(c e intuition behind the use of the negative likelihood is that the more probable a term to appear, the less information it conveys. All these features show that Jiangs measure tends to be more general and more appropriate for evaluating nontaxonomically related terms. Indeed, a high score of the relatedness measures suggests a strong relationship between terms Nevertheless, all relatedness measures have limitations because they assume that all the semantic content of a particular term is modeled by semantic links in WordNet Consequently, in many situations, truly related terms obtain a low scores even though their belongings to a certain category of tags, e.g., jargon tags Additionally, when measuring the quality of an automatically knowledge acquisition results, the typical measures used in Information Retrieval are Recall, Precision and F-Measure. However, computing Recall and F-Measure requires the availability of a Gold Standard. Hence, we will only compute the Precision which speci?es to which extent the non-taxonomic relationships is extracted correctly. In this case, the ratio between the correctly extracted relations i.e., their relatedness measures is greater than or equal to a minimum threshold, and the whole number of extracted ones is computed. Thus, we have Precision Total correctly selected entities Total selected entities 12 http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-Similarity 13 A term refers to a tag subject or a tag object C. Evaluation of non-taxonomic relationships Only a percentage of the full set of non-taxonomic relationships \(89 is caused by the presence of non standard terms which are not contained in WordNet and, in consequence, cannot be evaluated using WordNet-based relatedness measures. Fig. 5 depicts the evaluation results of the extracted non-taxonomic relationships against their relatedness measures High relatedness score \(88 17% of the extracted relationships, as most of terms are strongly related with respect WordNet Null Scores were obtained for 5% of the extracted 


relationships. Analyzing this case in more detail, we have observed that the poor score is caused in many situations by the way in which Jiangs distance metric works. This latter completely depends on the distance between two terms based on the number of edges found on the path between them in WordNet. In consequence this measure returns a value that does not fully represent reality. For example, on the one hand, Jiangs distance metric returns a null value for the relationship between insurance and car, even though the ?rst is a commonly related to the second, i.e., car involved insurance Finally with a minimal Jiangs distance metric threshold, set to 46%, the computed precision of correctly extracted relationships candidates is equal to 68.8 An example of extracted non-taxonomic relationships is depicted in Table V where each relation describes the subject tag, e.g., tool, the predicate, e.g is being developed within, and the object tag, e.g mesh. Fig. 4 represent a fragment output of the extracted ontological structure where each concept de?nes a set of similar and synonym tags and labels, i.e., mentions has been, revealed, caused and is created with describe the predicates of the non-taxonomic relationships between terms Due to the limitations observed by the automatic evaluation procedure and the lack of gold standards containing non-taxonomic relationships, we have examined the extracted non-taxonomic relationships from a linguistic point 377 Top space      distance     quad great     groovy nifty caused address      addresses extension      quotation   reference  references extensions        referenz     source      refrence sources    rfrences    quotations research    search     searching searchs open-source     open_source 


opensource linux aim     design     designer      designers patern    project     patterns     projekte projects web+design    web_design webdesign internet       internetbs net          web network      networking networks      web discussion     news       password word      words community      communities is_created_with mentions revealed has_been Figure 4. A fragment output of the extracted ontological structure of view. This qualitative evaluation can bring some interesting insights about the kind of results one can expect Invalid relations are extracted: Even though a relation such as music cities skill is considered as correct one since tag subject, tag object and predicate are correctly extracted. From a semantic point of view, this relation has no meaning. Hence, a higher precision is expected Figure 5. Summary of non-taxonomic evaluation measure Table V EXAMPLES OF EXTRACTED NON TAXONOMIC RELATIONSHIPS Subject Predicate Object search has been reference reference mentions search tool is being developed within mesh security added encoding search revealed reference java provides library by performing the sense analysis on complete relations An ambiguity in the extracted predicates between terms is observed: Hence, same relations are redundant since they use a synonym predicates between terms, e.g java provides library and java yields library. Thus we expect that the redundancy removal within extracted relations will be of bene?t for the improvement of the 


obtained results VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK The extraction of non-taxonomic relationships from folksonomies is to the best of our knowledge is the least tackled task within ontology building from folksonomy. This is why there is a need of novel and general purpose approaches covering the full process of learning relationships. In this paper, we introduced a new approach called NONTAXFOLKS that starts by pre-processing tags aiming at getting a set of frequent tagsets corresponding to an agreed representation Then, they are used to retrieve related tags using external resources such as WordNet. Thanks to the particular structure of triadic concepts, it allows grouping semantically related tags by considering the semantic relatedness embodied in the different frequencies of co-occurences among users, resources and tags in the folksonomy. Thereafter we introduced an algorithm called NTREXTRACTION for extracting non-taxonomic relationships between pair of tags picked from the triadic concepts. In summary, our approach uses several well known techniques \(such as formal concept analysis or association rule discovering the social bookmaring environnement in order to propose a new way of extracting labeled non-taxonomic relationships between tags. Currently, we are investigating the following topic concerning the discovered predicates between two terms. Indeed, in order to avoid relationships redundancy and thus a redundancy in the builded ontology. One can try to classify them into prede?ned semantic classes, detect synonyms, inverses, etc. A standard classi?cation of verbs could be used for this purpose, adding additional information about the semantic content, e.g., senses, verb types, thematic roles, etc., of predicates relationships 378 REFERENCES 1] J. Pan, S. Taylor, and E. Thomas, Reducing ambiguity in tagging systems with folksonomy search expansion, in Proceedings of the 6th Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC2009 2] V. S. M. Kavalec, A. Maedche, Discovery of lexical entries for non-taxonomic relations in ontology learning, in Proceedings of the SOFSEM 2004, LNCS, vol. 2932, 2004, pp 249256 


3] L. Specia and E. Motta, Integrating folksonomies with the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 4th European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC 2007 Innsbruck, Austria, vol. 4519, June 2007, pp. 624639 4] P. Mika, Ontologies are us: A uni?ed model of social networks and semantics, in Proceedings of the 4th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC2005 3729, Galway, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 522536 5] P. Schmitz, Inducing ontology from ?ickr tags, in Proceedings of the Workshop on Collaborative Tagging \(WWW 2006 Edinburgh, Scotland, May 2006 6] M. Zhou, S. Bao, X. Wu, and Y. Yu, An unsupervised model for exploring hierarchical semantics from social annotations, in Proceedings of the 6th International Semantic Web Conference and 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference ISWC/ASWC2007 Korea, vol. 4825, November 2006, pp. 673686 7] C. Schmitz, A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, and G. Stumme, Mining association rules in folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 10th IFCS Conference \(IFCS 2006 2006, pp. 261270 8] A. Hotho, A. Maedche, S. Staab, and V. Zacharias, On knowledgeable unsupervised text mining, in Proceedings of Text Mining Workshop, Physica-Verlag, 2003, pp. 131152 9] A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme, Information retrieval in folksonomies: Search and ranking, in The Semantic Web: Research and Applications, vol. 4011 Springer, 2006, pp. 411426 10] F. Lehmann and R. Wille, A triadic approach to formal concept analysis, in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Conceptual Structures: Applications, Implementation and Theory. Springer-Verlag, 1995, pp. 3243 11] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G.Stumme Discovering shared conceptualizations in folksonomies Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, vol. 6, pp. 3853, 2008 12] A. Mathes, Folksonomies - cooperative classi?cation and communication through shared metadata, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Tech. Rep. LIS590CMC, December 2004 13] H. Lin, J. Davis, and Y. Zhou, An integrated approach 


to extracting ontological structures from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 6th European Semantic Web Conference ESWC 2009 vol. 5554, 2009, pp. 654668 14] M. Szomszor, H. Alani, K. OHara, and N. Shadbolt, Semantic modelling of user interests based on cross-folksonomy, in Proceedings of the 7th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC 2008 15] G.Begelman, P. Keller, and F.Smadja, Automated tag clustering: Improving search and exploration in the tag space, in Proceedings of the the Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop WWW 2006 16] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G. Stumme TRIAS - an algorithm for mining iceberg tri-lattices, in Procedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, \(ICDM 2006 2006, pp. 907911 17] C. Borgelt, Ef?cient implementation of APRIORI and ECLAT, in FIMI, COEUR Workshop Proceedings, COEURWS.org, vol. 126, 2003 18] J. Tang, H. Leung, Q. Luo, D. Chen, and J. Gong, Towards ontology learning from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 21st international jont conference on Arti?cal intelligence IJCAI 2009 20892094 19] L. Ding, T. Finin, A. Joshi, R. Pan, R. Cost, Y. Peng P. Reddivari, V. Doshi, and J. Sachs, Swoogle: A search and metadata engine for the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 652659 20] A. Hliaoutakis, G. Varelas, E. Voutsakis, E. Petrakis, and E. E Milios, Information retrieval by semantic similarity, International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems IJSWIS 21] G. Pirro, M. Ruffolo, and D. Talia, Secco: On building semantic links in peer to peer networks, Journal on Data Semantics XII, LNCS 5480, pp. 136, 2009 22] C. Meilicke, H. Stuckenschmidt, and A. Tamilin, Repairing ontology mappings, in Proceedings of the International Conference AAAI 2007, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 2007, pp. 14081413 23] S. Ravi and M. Rada, Unsupervised graph-based word sense 


disambiguation using measures of word semantic similarity in Proceedings of the International Conference ICSC 2007 Irvine, California, USA, 2007 24] H. G. A. Budanitsky, Semantic distance in wordnet: an experimental application oriented evaluation of ?ve measures in Proceedings of the International Conference NACCL 2001 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, 2007, pp. 2934 25] J. Jiang and D. Conrath, Semantic similarity based on corpus statistics and lexical taxonomy, in Proceedings of the International Conference ROCLING X, 1997 379 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


