 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE AC-ViSOM: Hybridising the Modified Adaptive Coordinate \(AC\ and ViSOM for Data Visualization   Md. Sarwar Zahan Tapan Faculty of Cognitive Sciences and Human Development Universiti Malaysia Sarawak \(UNIMAS 94300, Kota Samarahan, Sarawak, Malaysia E-mail: sarwar740@yahoo.com  Teh Chee Siong Faculty of Cognitive Sciences and Human Development Universiti Malaysia Sarawak \(UNIMAS 94300, Kota Samarahan, Sarawak, Malaysia E-mail: csteh@fcs.unimas.my    Abstract  ViSOM’s \(Visualization induced SOM\ final map 
can be seen as a smooth net embedded in the input space, where the distances among neurons are controlled by a regularization control parameter which is usually heuristically chosen on a trial and error basis. Empirical studies shown that ViSOM suffers from dead neuron problem, since a big number of neurons fall outside of the data region due to the regularizati on effect, even though the regularization control parameter is properly chosen In this paper, a modified Adaptive Coordinate \(AC approach that is able to preserve data structure is hybridised with ViSOM is proposed.  Experimental 
studies on benchmark datasets shown that the proposed method was able to eliminate the selection of regularization control parameter and minimizing the dead neuron for better data representation   1. Introduction  Self-Organizing Map \(SOM able to preserve data topology in its visualization from N dimensional space to the low dimensional display space. However, SOM’s visualization is not directly able to represent the data structure and inter-neuron distance in its topology preserved mapping 
Visu alizatio n in d u ced SOM \(ViSOM 3  is th en  proposed to enhance SOM’s visualization to preserve data structure and inter-neuron distances. Empirical studies in [3 ha ve p r o v e n ViSOM  s sup e r i o r ity  among several other visualization methods such as Principal Component Analysis \(PCA\[4 Multidimensional Scaling \(MDS an d  Sam m o n  s Mapping i n t e rm s of dat a s t ru ct u r e, dat a t opol og y  and inter-neuron distance preservation ViSOM’s final map can be seen as a smooth net mesh grid\bedded in the input space, where the 
distances among neurons are controlled by a regularization control parameter, which is usually heuristically chosen using trial and error approach  h is reg u l arization co ntrol parameter controls the regular spread of the weight vectors in the data region in N dimensional space. Empirical studies in 3  ha ve  sho w n t h a t V i SO M suffe r s fr o m d e a d  neuron problem, since a big number of neurons fall outside of the data region in the produced map due to the regularization impact even though the 
regularization control parameter value is reasonably se Empirical studies in [3 ha ve a l so sho w n tha t  fo r  a suitable regularization control parameter, ViSOM requires a large amount of neurons in the network to effectively represent the data. The big number of dead neurons produced in the ViSOM map results non-optimised network resource utilization even though the larger map size caused more computation efforts. Thus, this work scopes itself in defining a way of eliminating the impact of the regularization 
control parameter in the ViSOM network and optimise the dead-neuron problem, at the same time produce data structure, data topology and interneuron distance preserved data visualization In this work, a modified Adaptive Coordinate AC\proach is hybridised with ViSOM to address the above-mentioned issues. The basic idea of AC approach  to m i rror th e m o v e m e n t s an d locations of the neurons’ weight vectors in the high dimensional input space in a low dimensional output space to reveal the clustering tendency of data 
learned by SOM [7 a lly th e A C  is ap p lied  o n  the topology preserved SOM grid to reveal the clustering tendency of data by removing the rigidity of SOM grid m odi f i ed A C approach i s al s o  proposed in  o produ ce dat a  s t ru ct u r e an d inter-neuron preserved topology mapping In this paper, the integration of the modified AC and ViSOM network is proposed as AC-ViSOM Section 2 describes ViSOM in brief. Section 3 


 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE briefly describes modified Adaptive Coordinates AC\In section 4, integration between AC and ViSOM \(AC-ViSOM\resented. In section 5 experimental results demonstrate that, the proposed AC-VISOM is able to eliminating the impact of the regularization control parameter in the ViSOM network and minimise the dead neuron problem  2. Visualization induced SOM \(ViSOM  2.1. Self-Organizing Map \(SOM ViSOM modifies the weight updating rules of SOM S O M 1] i s abl e t o pres erv e dat a t opol og y  of N dimensional data space to a low \(2D/3D dimensional regular grid space. Each neuron i of the grid is assigned with an N dimensional weight vectors  T w  w  w  w N i 3 2 1  w in N dimensional data space. In the incremental training of SOM, each data sample  t  x in discrete time step t is presented to the network and the winner neuron is selected based on the closest similarity match as Let denote  t  h ic to represent the neighbourhood kernel function around the winner neuron c for time step t Then the neighbourhood function can be described as Here  c i r r  represents the distance between neuron i and neuron c in the grid space and  t   represents the neighbourhood range monotonically decreasing with time step t Then the winner along with a set of neighbouring neurons N c gets the update by the following equation   Here, SOM is briefly discussed according to Kohonen [1  T h e i n t e r ne ur o n d i st a n c e s i n t h e  N dimensional data space and the data structure are not directly visible in SOM’s visualization [2 Therefore, to enhance SOM’s visualization with inter-neuron distance and data structure preservation ViSOM was proposed in h e f o l l o w i n g  s ect i o n s  briefly describe ViSOM  2.2. Visualization induced SOM \(ViSOM The basic idea of to reg u l arize th e weight vectors’ distances to produce a smooth net mesh\ embedded in the N dimensional data space ViSOM decomposes the force F ix  x t w i t  representing the force between neuron i and data sample x t in discrete time step t into two parts which was expressed in [3  a s   t t   t t   t t  i c c i w w w x w x   i.e  ci cx ix F F F    F cx presents the force from the winner neuron c and the data sample x while F ci is the lateral force from the neuron i to the winner neuron c 3 ViSOM then modifies SOM’s weight updating rule for c N i   described in Equation \(3 Here ci d and ci  are two distance metrics representing distances between neuron i and winner neuron c in the N dimensional input space and lowdimensional output space respectively, and  is the regularization control parameter. The following section describes Adaptive Coordinate \(AC approach in brief  3. Adaptive Coordinates \(AC As described by Merkl and Rauber in  th e basic idea of AC approach was to mirror the movements of the neurons’ weight vectors in the high dimensional input space in a low dimensional output space. In the 2D output space each neuron is assigned a position by two adaptive coordinates ax i  ay i initially being identical to the neuron’s position in the map grid. During each training step, relative changes or movements in N dimensional data space are mirrored in the output space using the adaptive coordinate vectors and adaptation criteria described in [7  h is A C ap p r o ach req u ires to b e  in teg r ated  with a method that is able to preserve data topology in order to facilitate AC’s functionalities [7 7  and [8 a s b een p r o v en  th at th e m i rro rin g  ab ility  of AC applied on the topology preserved SOM grid allows visualization of the clustering tendency of data learned by SOM A modified AC approach is also proposed in   h i s approach produ ces dat a s t ru ct u r e an d inter-neuron distance preserved topology mapping from N dimensional space to low dimensional display space. This modified AC approach is briefly described in the next section  3.1. Modified Adaptive Coordinates AC  s ed SOM s g r id s p ace as  it s  ou tpu t  space to create visualizations. In contrast, the modified AC  s abl e  t o  produ ce dat a  visualization by itself. Thus an output space needs to be defined to enable AC to create its visualization Let denote two normalization factors as  in and  out    N   i   t  min arg c i i 2 1    w x  1    2 2 2  t  c i ic e  t  h  r r  2 c i i i c i ic i N  t   t  N i  t   t    t  h  t   t   t  i           w w w x w w 1 1   3          ci ci ci i c c ic i d  t   t   t   t   t  h  t   t   t  i      w w w x w w 1  4 


 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE to represent the maximum distances among data points in N dimensional input space and a predefined maximum range of a side of the output space respectively. These two normalization constants enable the proposed modified AC to compute all relative changes in a normalization scale of 0 to 1 In one complete AC adaptation cycle, each neuron i in turn acts as an adaptation centre and every other neuron j adjusts the output space distance towards current neuron i Let denote  t  d ij and  t  ij  to represent the distance between the current adaptation centre neuron i and any other neuron j in  Ndimensional input space and low \(usually 2D output space respectively for any time step t Then the adaptation factor for th e adaptive coordinates of each neuron j in respect with the current adaptation centre neuron i during time step t can be calculated as   j i   t  d  t   t  Dist in ij out ij ij         1 5 In Equation \(5  t  Dist ij 1   represents the signed \(+/-\ferences between the normalized distances in input space and output space for any neuron j and current neuron \(current adaptation centre i The positive value of  t  Dist ij 1   sets the direction of adaptation towards the neuron i while negative value sets it in the opposite direction. Now the adaptive coordinates of every neuron j  ax j t ay j t  are updated towards adaptation centre neuron i  by the following equation  t  t ax t  t Dist   t  ax   t  ax j i ij j j 012  1 1      t  t ay t  t Dist   t  ay   t  ay j i ij j j 012  1 1      6  In Equation \(6 012 t is a monotonically decreasing control parameter with \(0 012 t 1 detail about the modified AC approach can be found in d [10   4. Proposed hybridisation of AC and ViSOM \(AC-ViSOM  4.1. Hybridisation of AC and ViSOM The method of AC-ViSOM is proposed as hybridisation between modified AC and ViSOM. In AC-ViSOM, modified AC approach is first applied to preserve the data structure in visualization using randomly selected data samples as the initial positions of weight vectors. Once the data structure is preserved, the ViSOM network then adjusts the neurons’ weight vectors’ positioning in the N dimensional space according to the neurons positioning in low dimensional display space In ViSOM [3 e ig h t u p d a te th e reg u l arizatio n  parameter  adjusts the neighbouring neurons weight vectors’ positioning in N dimensional space according to their respective distances in the regular grid space \(display space\In AC-ViSOM, the neighbouring neurons’ distance is already preserved by AC in the display space, thus the ViSOM regularization parameter can be eliminated in the training The modified AC approach described in section 3.1 uses  in and  out as two normalization factors to preserve data structure by adjusting the neurons location from N dimensional space to low dimensional display space. In optimisation of distance adjustment, Equation \(5\ AC adaptation can be expressed as  out in ij ij in ij out ij  t   t  d j i   t  d  t            0  7 Here  t  d ij and  t  ij  represent the distance between neuron i and neuron j in Ndimensional input space and low-dimensional output space respectively for any time step t If the expected distance between neuron i and j in Ndimensional input space is expressed with a scaling factor   regularization parameter\ respect with their corresponding distance in low-dimensional display space, then Equation \(7\ be expressed as  out in ij ij  d         8  Then ViSOM’s weight update for AC-ViSOM algorithm can be expressed as in Equation \(9\or c N i   Here ci d and ci  are two distance metrics representing distances between neuron i and winner neuron c in the N dimensional input space and lowdimensional output space  in represents the maximum distance among data points in N dimensional input space and  out represents a predefined maximum range of a side of the output space. This is how AC-ViSOM is able to eliminate the heuristics based trial and error process of scaling factor  regularization parameter\n. The AC-ViSOM algorithm is explained in the next section 


 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE  4.2. AC-ViSOM algorithm Let us assume that all samples of x  are derived from an N dimensional data set and each neuron i is assigned with 2-dimensional adaptive coordinate vectors ax i  ay i randomly positioned in a predefined output space range. The maximum distance between among data points in N dimensional input space is computed and presented by  in and the  out is assigned with the maximum range of a side of the output space. Initially N dimensional weight vector for each neuron is assigned in the data space.  Then the algorithm can be described in a two-phase structure as  Phase 1 AC’s data structure preservation  Step 1 Compute the adaptation factor for every other neuron j for each neuron i using Equation \(5  Step 2 Update the adaptive coordinates of every other neuron j for each neuron i using Equation \(6  Step 3 Repeat for a predefined number of epochs e.g. 50 epochs    Phase 2 ViSOM training Step 1 Select the winner for each data sample x t using Equation \(1  Step 2: Update winner and its neighbouring neurons using ViSOM’s weight update rule stated in Equation \(9  Step 3 Repeat Step 1 to Step 2 until all the data samples are presented to the network  Step 4 Repeat Step 1 to Step 3 for a predefined number of epochs \(e.g. 250 epochs  5. Experiments In this section the advantages of the proposed AC-ViSOM method are demonstrated using 2D simulated Gaussian data set, a 3D synthetic data set  d Wis c on s i n Breas t C a n cer WBC  data s e t 11 In the following experiments, data representation by weight vectors is measured using Mean Square Error \(MSE\he MSE measurement refers to the average similarity errors for all data samples and their corresponding winners. The smaller the MSE value obtained, the better the data representation by the weight vectors would be. For M number of data samples in N dimensional input space, MSE can be calculated as   2 1 11 2 1  M i N k ck ik M MSE    w x  10  5.1. Two-dimensional Gaussian data set A 2D simulated Gaussian data set with two Gaussian sources cen d [1.7, 1.7 and 300 data members for each sources with variance of 0.12, was generated for this experiment First a ViSOM network with size 20x20 was used with a regularization parameter  0.15. The weight vectors were randomly selected from the sample data. Total iteration was set to 300. Learning rate   and neighbourhood range  was initialised to 0.3 and 10, which monotonically decreases to 0.0 and 0.05 respectively at the end of training. The regularized positioning of the weight vectors in the 2D data space were presented in Figure 1 which shows that due to regularized spread of weight vectors, a big number of dead neurons is formed. Figure 2 then contains the grid space visualization of ViSOM for this 2D Gaussian data set. In this visualization circles represent Class 1 and square represents Class 2 in the data set   Figure 1: Weight vectors’ regularized positioning of ViSOM for the 2D Gaussian data, dead neurons=67.7%, MSE=0.0639  Then an AC-ViSOM network was used with the similar map size of 20x20 in this data set. Weight vectors were randomly selected from sample data The total iterations were set to \(50+250\i.e. 50 iterations for AC’s data structure preservation in phase 1 and 250 iterations for ViSOM training in phase 2. The adaptive coordinates ax i ay i for every neuron i was initialised randomly in the output space Learning rate  and control parameter 012 were initialised as 0.4 and 0.1 and linearly decreased to 0.0 at the end of phase 1. The normalization constant  out was set to 20 and  in value was computed over the data set. Then ViSOM training was applied in phase 2. Learning rate  and neighbourhood range            out in ci out in ci ci i c c ic i d  t   t   t   t   t  h  t   t   t  i        w w w x w w 1  9 


 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE was initialised to 0.3 and 10, which monotonically decreases to 0.0 and 0.05 respectively at the end of phase 2.  Weight vectors’ positioning by AC-ViSOM network for this 2D Gaussian data set was presented in Figure 3   Figure 2: ViSOM’s grid space visualization for the 2D Gaussian data se t    Figure 3: Weight vectors’ positioning by ACViSOM for the 2D Gaussian data set, dead neurons=17.5%, MSE=0.0282  Figure 3 shown that, AC-ViSOM was able to nicely embed the weight vectors in the data region resulting minimize dead neuron produced as compared against ViSOM’s projection in Figure 1 and Figure 2. In Figure 4, AC-ViSOM’s display space visualization for this 2D Gaussian data set is presented  Figure 4: AC-ViSOM’s display space visualization for the 2D Gaussian data set  Figure 3 and Figure 4 demonstrated that, due to AC-ViSOM’s ability to embed weight vectors positioning in the data region, the map produced better data representation and lower MSE value as compared with the ViSOM network  5.2. Three-dimensional synthetic data set In this experiment a three-dimensional synthetic data set [2 a s u s ed T h is d a ta set co n t ain s th ree Gaussian sources with 100 data samples in each source. The mean vector of three Gaussian sources we T 2.0 5.0 -3 T and [-10.0 6.0 2.0 T Their corresponding covariance matrixes were    0  4 5  1 3  0 0  1 3  0 0  1 3  0 0  1 0  5    0  3 2  0 3  1 0  1 0  5 0  2 5  0 1  0 0  1 and    0  4 2  1 3  0 4  1 3  2 2  1 2  0 0  1 1  0  The view of the 3D synthetic data set is presented in Figure 5    Figure 5: 3D synthetic data set  In this experiment, first a ViSOM network with map size 15x15 was used with regularization parameter  0.12. The remaining parameter settings were kept the same as the previous ViSOM network applied on 2D Gaussian data set. ViSOM’s grid based visualization and positioning of weight 


 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE vectors’ in 3D data space for this 3D synthetic data set were presented in Figure 6 and Figure 7 respectively. Figure 6 and Figure 7 highlight the dead neuron areas \(oval shape line\ced by ViSOM mapping   Figure 6: ViSOM’s visualization for the 3D synthetic data set, dead neurons=68.4 MSE=0.048    Figure 7:  Weight vectors’ positioning by ViSOM for the 3D synthetic data set   AC-ViSOM network with map size 15x15 is used to perform the mapping. The normalization constant  out was set to 15 and  in value was computed over the data set. The remaining parameter settings were kept the same as the previous AC-ViSOM network applied on 2D Gaussian data set. AC-ViSOM’s visualization in the display space and the corresponding weight vectors’ positioning were presented in Figure 8 and Figure 9 respectively  Figure 8: AC-ViSOM’s visualization for 3D synthetic data set, dead neurons=31.0 MSE=0.024    Figure 9:  Weight vectors’ positioning by ACViSOM for the 3D synthetic data set   Figure 8 demonstrated that, AC-ViSOM was able to produce more appealing data structure preserved visualization than that of ViSOM projected in Figure 6.  Figure 9 again demonstrated that, AC-ViSOM was able to nicely embed the weight vectors in the data region, resulting minimized number of dead neurons produced in the map, and lower MSE value than that of ViSOM The following section conducts a similar experiment to demonstrate AC-ViSOM in highdimensional data set  5.3. Wisconsin Breast Cancer data set The Wisconsin Breast Cancer \(WBC\data set  con s i s t s  of  9di m e n s i o n a l 683 dat a s a m p l e s w i t h  2 classes. In this experiment, ViSOM network with map size 20x20 was used with regularization parameter  0.25. The remaining parameter settings were kept the same as the previous ViSOM network applied on 2D Gaussian data set. ViSOM’s grid 


 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE based visualization for this WBC data set was presented in Figure 10   Figure 10: ViSOM’s visualization for the WBC data set, dead neurons=84.7% and MSE=0.375   Then an AC-ViSOM network was used with map size 20x20. The normalization constant  out was set to 20 and  in value was computed over the data set The remaining parameter settings were kept the same as the previous AC-ViSOM network applied on 2D Gaussian data set. AC-ViSOM’s visualization for this WBC data set was presented in Figure 11   Figure 11: AC-ViSOM’s visualization for WBC data set, dead neuron=34.5%, MSE=0.193   Figure 11 demonstrated that, AC-ViSOM was able to produce data structure preserved visualization with more active neurons in the map than that of ViSOM projected in Figure 10 for this high dimensional data set. Figure 11 also demonstrated that, AC-ViSOM was able to produce a better data representation justified by low MSE obtained compared against that of ViSOM The above experiments have shown that ACViSOM is able to produced less dead neurons for better network utilization, optimised data representation with lower MSE value, and appealing data structure preserved visualization as compared with ViSOM  6. Conclusion and future works In this paper, an extension of ViSOM was proposed by hybridising modified Adaptive Coordinate \(AC\ approach and ViSOM network as AC-ViSOM. Empirical studies have shown that, ACViSOM is able to eliminate the trial and error process of selecting suitable resolution control parameter of ViSOM. Besides, it is able to minimize the number of dead neurons in the map as well as optimise the data representation as compared with that of ViSOM. This better network utilization ability of AC-ViSOM has a potential to minimize the map size requirements to produce effective data visualization For the future works, the research will look forward to define a way of increasing AC-ViSOM inter-neuron distance preservation ability. The method on how to define a suitable initialisation process for the weight vectors to represent the data density information will also be investigated  Acknowledgements The authors would like to acknowledge the support of Fundamental Research Grant Scheme 27\d Universiti Malaysia Sarawak for funding this work  7. References  1 T  K ohone n Self-Organizing Maps 3rd edition New York: Springer-Verlag .2001  2 S. W u a nd T  S. W  C how  P R S O M  A N e w  Visualization Method by Hybriding Multidinesional Scaling and Self-Organizing Map IEEE Trans. Neural Netw vol. 16, no. 6 pp.1362–1380, 2005  3 H  Y i n V iSO M A nov e l  m e thod f o r m u ltiv a r ia te  data projection and structure visualization IEEE Trans. Neural Netw vol. 13, no. 1, pp.237–243 2002  4  R   A  J ohns on a nd D  W  W i c h e r n Applied Multivariate Statistical Analysis Englewood Cliffs NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1992  5 R N S h ep ard an d J D  Carro l l   P aram et ri c representation of nonlinear data structures,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Multivariate Anal., P. R Krishnaiah, Ed. New York: Academic, pp. 561 592.992. 1965  


 978-1-4244-2328-6/08 25.00 © 2008 IEEE 6 J  W  Sa m m on A  nonline a r  m a pping  f o r  da ta  structure analysis IEEE Trans. Comput vol. C18, pp. 401–409, 1969  7   D Me rk l, a nd A  Ra ube r A lte rna tiv e w a y s f o r cluster visualization in se lf-organizing maps”, In Proc. WSOM ’97, Workshop on SOM, Espoo Finland, pp. 106-111, 1997  8  D   Me r k l a nd A  R a ube r   T he s i m ila r ity of e a g le s   hawks, and cows: visualization of semantic similarity in self-organizing maps”, Int’l Workshop on Fuzzy-Neuro-Systems, Soest, Germany, 1997  9 Z. T  Sa r w a r a nd C   S T e h  H y b r i diz a tion of  Learning Vector Quantization \(LVQ\d Adaptive Coordinate \(AC\ for Data Visualization and Classification”, International Conference on Intelligent & Advance Systems \(ICIAS ’07\KL Convention Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 2007. [CD-RO    C  S. T e h a nd Z. T  Sa r w a r  A Supe r v is e d  A N N  for classification and data visualization”, In Proc of IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence \(WCCI’08\H ong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, Hong Kong, June 1-6, 2008    D. J. Ne w m a n S. He ttic h, C. L  Bla k e a nd C. J Merz, UCI Repository of machine learning databases, Dept. of ICS, Univ. of California at Irvine. 1998 


the number of steps\. The advantage of applying dynamic programming instead of standard mathematical programming tools is twofold. First, the special structure of the optimization problem is effectively exploited. Second, no continuous-valued variable has to be taken into account. The computational requirements of the proposed approach have been experimentally evaluated in connection with a real case study, and have been proven to be compatible with a real-time implementation of the procedure Future developments may regard the comparison of results with the use of empirical curves based on complex upconing models \(such as the one formulated by Zhou d th e ex pan s ion of t h es e m odel s  to more wells that influence each other. As regards the proposed methodology, future development may include a generalization of the formalization of the optimal control strategy to more binary variables for each stage, more state equations about the setting time needed by the pump when it is turned on-off, and integer variables instead of binary variables. Then future developments of the presented DSS regard the definition of an Identification module in which the information as regards predicted concentration pumping pattern, observed data can be used to identify models for the system state equations and to update the parameters. Finally, further aspects that can be added include a sensitivity analysis performed by varying the weight s coefficients in the objective function, and the use of other multi-objective approaches   8. Acknowledgments  The authors would like to thank Steve Bowles and Waimea Water Services Inc. that facilitated the in situ pumping tests, and Holly Michael of MIT for the help with the field work        9. References  1 Poste l S P illa r of Sa nd: Ca n the irrig a tion m i ra c l e la st   W.W. Norton and Co.: New York, 1999  2 Bear J, Ch en g A H D, So rek S, Ou azar D, Herrera I Seawater Intrusion in Coastal Aquifers- Concepts, Methods and Practices. Springer; 1999, p.640  3 Sha m ir U  Be a r J  O p ti m a l A nnua l O p e r a tion of a Coa s ta l  Aquifer. Water Resources Research 1984; 20\(4\: 435-444  4 D a s  A  Da tta B  De v e lop m e n t of  m a n a g em e n t m ode ls  f o r  sustainable use of coastal aquifers. Journal of Irrigation and Drainage Engineering 1999; 125\(3\: 112-121   Bh attach arjy a R Datta B Op tim al man age men t o f co astal  aquifers using linked simulation optimization approach Water resources management 2005; 19: 295-320  6 B e a r J  Zhou Q  B e ns a b a t J  T h re e di m e ns iona l simulation of seawater intrusion in heterogeneous aquifers application to the coastal aquifer of Israel, in:Proceedings of the First International Conference on Saltwater Intrusion and Coastal Aquifers-Monitoring, Modeling, and Management Essaouira, Morocco, April 23 25, 2001  7 Zh ou Q  B e a r J  B e ns a b a t J  Sa ltw a t e r upc oni ng a nd decay beneath a well pumping above an interface zone Transport in Porous Media 2005; 61: 337 363  8 D u a r te T K R obba M, H a rv e y C F Hy drolog ic Ec o n o m i c Optimization of a Brackish Coastal Pumping Well Proceedings of  iEMSs2004 Congress, Osnabrück, Germany June 14-17, 2004  9 B a ue r G   A  s t udy o f the  g r oun d-w a te r c onditi ons in N o rt h and South Kona and South Kohala Districts, Island of Hawai i, 1991-2002. State of Hawai i, Department of Land and Natural Resources 2003; PR-2003-01  10 tthie s M G i upp o n i, C Oste n dorf B  Environmental decision support systems; current issues methods and tools. Environmental modelling and software 2007; 22:  123-127                 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


8 U Mengali and A N D'Andrea Synchronization Techniques for Digital Receivers Plenum Press 1997 9 L E Franks Carrier and Bit Synchronization in Data Communication A Tutorial Review IEEE Trans On Communications vol COM-28 NO.8 pp 1107-1121 Aug 1980 10 W C Lindsey and M K simon Telecommunication Systems Engineering Prentice-Hall 1973 11 M K Simon Optimum Receiver Structures for Phase-Multiplexed Modulations IEEE Trans On Communications Vol 26 NO 6 p 865-872 June 1978 12]A J Rustako L J Greenstein R S Roman and A M Saleh Using Times-Four Carrier Recovery in MQAM Digital Radio Receivers IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications vol SAC-5 NO.3 pp 524-533 April 1987 13]Y Lee Y Jung G Jeong and E Chang A Limiter Added 4th Multiplying PLL Carrier Recovery Technique for 16-QAM Signal IEEE 1997 14]H C Osborne A Generalized Polarity-Type Costas Loop for Tracking MPSK Signals IEEE Trans On Communications Vol 30 NO 10 p 2289-2296 October 1982 15]N Liskov and R Curtis Performance of Coherent Phase and Amplitude Digital Modulations with Carrier Recovery Noise IEEE Trans on Communications vol COM-35 NO.9 pp 972-976 Sept 1987 16]R Kumar Impact of Ionospheric Scintillation on GPS/WAAS System and its Mitigation Techniques Proceedings of the Institute of Navigation 55th Annual National Meeting January 27th 1999 17]R Kumar P Munjal Simulation Studies for Ionospheric Scintillation Proceedings of the Institute of Navigation 54th Annual National Meeting Junel-3 1998,Kansas City 18 R Kumar Optimum Filters and Smoothers Design for Carrier Phase and Frequency Tracing National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory publication 8710 19]B D 0 Anderson and J B Moore Optimal filtering Prentice-Hall 1979 BIOGRAPHY Dr Rajendra Kumar is Professor and Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering at California State University Long Beach He also has a joint appointment at the Aerospace Corporation as a Senior Engineering Specialist He has published about 100 papers on Communication Systems GPS Adaptive Signal Processing and Adaptive Control He has received seven patents in the area of Communication and GPS Systems and has two patents pending He has about 30 years of experience in these areas He is the recipient of twelve NASA Tech Brief and Patent Disclosure awards from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Washington D.C He received the Best Paper award at the 1986 International Telemetering Conference and the Distinguished Faculty award at the California State University He is a Senior Member of IEEE and Member of AIAA and ION He received his B.Tech and M.Tech in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Newcastle in Australia His biography is listed in Who is Who in the World Who is Who in America and Who is Who in Science and Engineering and many other biographical reference works Ramses Diaz de Leon joined Rockwell Semiconductors in 1998 working on RF and mixed signal integrated circuit design post silicon validations for cellular phone applications He moved to Broadcom Corporation in 2005 were he serves as a senior staff member in the Enterprise Networking division His research interests include adaptive signal processing estimation theory multi-user detection spread spectrum satellite communications and radar signal processing Ramses received a Bachelor's of Science in Electrical Engineering from Universidad Autonoma de Baja 10 


California Mexicali Mexico He is currently completing the requirements for the Master's in Science in Electrical Engineering at California State University Long Beach 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


  16  Figure 15. AIRS-AMSRE differences as a function of AIRS error estimate over one day  AIRS has an error estimate of the total water vapor value that it calculates. The diffe rences between AIRS and AMSR-E are shown as a function of this estimate in figure 15 and very little correlation is found 11  R ELEVANT W ORK  Merged A-Train Level 2 Data A merged product that preserves the relationship of observed atmospheric water properties facilitates the hydrological studies by enabling scientists to get directly at the model data without worrying about the logistics of finding, collecting, and coordinating the measured quantities from different instruments. Previously there did not exist a capability to discover and access data from the A-Train\222s multiple instruments as merged multi-parameter data sets Enabling Orchestratable Service Workflows Our distributed service-oriented approach of loosely coupled services also enable s a higher level of reusability and orchestration with other services. Increasing numbers of workflow engines are already supporting Web Services as components/operators, which can then be orchestrated together into higher-level meta/virtual services SciFlo, a Scientific Dataflow Execution Environment, is a workflow engine that already supports assembling reusable SOAP Services, native execu tables, local command-line scripts, and codes into a distributed computing flow \(a graph of operators\8 SciFlo can u tilize o u r g en eric SOAP services as part of a larger coordinated data flow The Taverna Workbench is a free software tool for designing and executing workflows. Like SciFlo, it can orchestrate SOAP-based Web Services as components within a workflow. Taverna provides a visual editor to construct and edit the sequence of services in the workflow We have found that Taverna can dynamically introspect a given WSDL and construct the workflow component interface representing it Giovanni Giovanni, an acronym for the Goddard Earth Sciences Data and Information Services Cent er, or GES DISC, Interactive Online Visualization and Analys is Infrastructure, is a webbased tool to help visualize Earth science data  It  provides a simple and intuitive way to visualize, analyze and access vast amounts of Eart h science remote sensing data without having to download the data. Similar to the services developed here, it addresses the difficulties of traditional data acquisition and analysis methods by moving the complexity to the server-side Giovanni provides multiple in terface instances based on instrument and measurement ty pes. For example, the \223ATrain Along CloudSat Track Inst ance\224 can provide plots of vertical profiles of clouds, temperature, humidity, cloud and aerosol classification across the multiple instruments of the A-Train A distinction between Givanni\222s A-Train data and the data set in this paper is that we are using a formal merged product of the A-Train. We leverage the NEWS effort that is based on error- and resolution-weighted mean of the input data sets, with associated uncertainty estimates. This provides a formal model of the collective A-Train observations rather than the collection of the individual instrument measurements Each of Giovanni\222s multiple interface instances provides a very simple and easy to use web interface. However, we recognized that sometimes scientists want more than the simple interfaces. Some scien tists may want to process Level 3 products using their own trusted code, or may want to perform variations of their own plots. With Giovanni, the individual scientist wanting more custom advanced capabilities must depend on the Giovanni development team Giovanni is based on the web portal paradigm where users visit a web page and use web tools to find and visualize data. Similar to Giovanni, our client APIs also make data acquisition more seamless. However, our services are based on the different paradigm were the power and flexibility of data analysis and processing are shifted back into the scientists own familiar computing environments. We realize that scientists generally want to perform \223exploratory computing\224 where they can sere ndipitously analyze the data using their own familiar and trusted code 


  17 Giovanni 2 was inherently synchronous where processing was bounded to a single http session. Long service running times still require the user to hold the same http session Similar to our asynchronous Web Service we discussed, the upcoming Giovanni 3 will be supporting asynchronous sessions. They will be using a RSS feed to monitor the service request. Version 3 will also be based on a servicesoriented architecture, wher e Giovanni services can be offered as a standard SOAP Web Services. This is similar to our approach, as well as SciFlo\222s services 12  C ONCLUSIONS  To achieve the science research goal of investigating longterm and global-scale trends in climate, water and energy cycle, and weather variability, we enhanced and improved on existing algorithms to work with distributed and heterogeneous data and information systems infrastructure By developing a service-oriented architecture for discovering, accessing, and mani pulating of NEWS merged A-Train data sets, we can strengthen the interconnectedness and reusability of these services across broader range of Earth science investigations The merged NEWS Level 2 data is a formal model containing the voluminous data from the AIRS, AMSR-E MLS, MODIS, and CloudSat instruments. Previously scientists wanting to perform long-term and global-scale studies encompassing simultaneous measured quantities would quickly face a data acce ss hurdle of first finding the data, then manually downloading them, and finally merging the data into a cohesive model\227before starting their analysis. Additionally the voluminous nature of the data particularly because of the MODIS data\each scientist potentially downloading the same data resulting in redundancy of reprocessing on the client sides. Our paradigm pushes more of the commonly repeated processing onto the server side. Moreover, this avoids repeated downloading of the same data among the science users. We can deliver customi zed averaged, subsetted, and summarized data of the merged A-Train observations to the scientists for them to immediately begin their analysis work We recognized that scientists also often want to perform 223exploratory computing\224 where they can freely explore the aspects of the data and run serendipitous exploration in their own familiar environment. We developed client-side distributed APIs in popular analysis environments such as Matlab, IDL, and Python. Our APIs hide the complexity of Web Services and allow the service capabilities to be embedded in the scientists own computing environments By purposely avoiding the \223web portal\224 paradigm and providing the suite of platform specific APIs in each of these language platforms, we enable the scientists to remain within their own familiar environments to select, process and download the data seamlessly into their environment for their own further analysis. Alternative methods involving web portals force the scientists to leave the environment and manually interact with the web portal to search and download the data We can examine not only long-term changes in amplitude of a single variable but also those among multiple variables Our L3Q clustering method was specifically designed to preserve information about the covariability of multiple observations, such as those from the A-Train.  Weather and climate variability is characterized by changes among atmospheric observables, but those changes have been limited by a lack of observations and analytical techniques We are not aware of any multi-parameter analyses to date The full potential of the A-Train climate record will not be realized until the multi-parameter climatology is understood. The work presented is one method of approaching this difficult problem Our service tool addresses several objectives of the NASA Earth science data community including 1\mprove interoperability to facilitate the transparent access and manipulation of heterogeneous and distributed data by science users, 2\ransition and deploy existing Earth science research analysis tools and software using a 223Service Oriented Architecture\224 \(SOA\ to enhance their reuse potential for other science domains and improve overall awareness and access of these tools by a broad community, 3\ increase users\222 ability to customize their discovery, access, deliv ery, manipulation, and preferred format of data and information 12  F UTURE W ORK  On-demand Level 3T Summaries from Level 3Q We plan to develop services for creating custom summaries of the L3Q data into more refined Level 3T summaries L3T\create their own custom Level 3 products on demand from L3Q. The custom Level 3 products are the transformation of L3Q data based on user-specific objectives such as regression and correlation analyses. The cust om production will generate not only the transformed data but also the statistical estimation of the accuracy of the summarized data based on the distribution of L3Q and the quality of L3Q Delegating the Temporal-Spatial Data Querying Currently, our processing layer utilizes existing and legacy processing code that was developed in IDL, Matlab, and C++. Though the original intent was to be able to adapt existing code and wrap as a service, this meant maintaining its original form of accessing the source data for processing Small modifications were made to enable these codes to quickly access the data based on file path and file naming schemes. However, we want to decouple the file accessibility and processing roles 


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


