A Collaborative and Semantic-Based Approach for Recommender Systems Roza Lemdani, Nacera Bennacer, Geraldine Polaillon, and Yolaine Bourda Department of Computer Science SUPELEC Systems Sciences \(E3S Gif-Sur-Yvette, France Roza.Lemdani,Nacera.Bennacer,Geraldine.Polaillon,Yolaine.Bourda}@supelec.fr AbstractThe constant growth of the Internet has made recommender systems very useful to guide users coping with a large amount of data. In this paper, we present a domain independent collaborative and semantic-based recommender system which uses distinct and complementary modules. The approach targets users with various interests and is based on i to mine a set of rules for the target user, \(ii module using the domain ontology to reason about items, \(iii a frequency module using the frequency of the item features in order to discover additional items to be recommended Unlike numerical approaches, applying these different modules separately provides a multi-view basis to explain the recommendations proposed to the user. Our recommendation system has been tried out on the MovieLens dataset and the results that have been evaluated by a set of volunteers are promising I. INTRODUCTION With the growth of the Internet, finding relevant information is more and more difficult. Thats why helping users to target their needs seems to be the right solution. In this context, many personalization tools have been proposed. A recommender system is one such tool A recommender system aims at selecting a set of items which are relevant for the user without any query. These systems are most often employed in e-commerce and the most famous example is Customers Who Bought This Item Also Bought used on Amazon.com TM1 Given a set of users U and a set of items I, a recommender system tends to predict the valuation of a user u ? U for an item i ? I. More formally, given a utility function e such that e : U  I ? R where R is a totally ordered set of numbers, the recommendation process aims at finding the items i that maximize the utility function e for the user u [1 But defining such utility function is difficult. More often the users history is used to try to evaluate it. This history contains items that are explicitly or implicitly evaluated by 


the user Recommender systems have been studied since the middle of the 90s. That is why, growing number of varying approaches can be found in the literature: content-based 1http://www.amazon.com collaborative, demographic, knowledge-based and utilitybased techniques [2]. The most popular ones are contentbased [3], [4] and collaborative approaches [5][7]. Recommended items in content-based recommender systems are similar to those contained in users history while collaborative filtering recommends items which are appreciated by users having similar behavior to the target user. Each recommender system suffers from its own limitations. For example, collaborative filtering presents three known limitations: cold-start problem, new item problem and the sparsity of the user rating matrix [1]. Fortunately, the combination of recommendation approaches allows one to alleviate some limitations and gives better results. Such combinations are the core of hybrid recommender systems [8][10 In this paper, we deal with a novel hybrid  collaborative and semantic-based  recommendation approach which combines different recommendation modules. The approach aims at defining a domain-independent framework which will adapt automatically to the targeted domain thanks to its ontology. The framework is based on learning the user profile and then adapting the recommendation process to such a profile. This aims at choosing the most adapted combination of modules for the user. Actually, users vary with their behavior and interests. Consequently, a one size fits all recommendation process is no longer accurate. Here we focus on users with various interests. The defined combination for such users consists in first using association rules to provide a collaborative view for the recommendation. Association rule mining results in a set of rules leading to a set of items which are candidates for the recommendation. The semantics of these candidate items is then used to refine the recommendation. This is done by using the domain ontology to detect each feature of an item and then compute the users interest for these features according to the users behavior Finally, the frequency of the features and associations of features of an item is considered. The detection of such frequent features helps at discovering other items which 


are added to the set of recommendations. The application of these different modules separately provide a multi-view basis to explain the recommendations proposed to the user something which would not be possible in pure numerical approaches. For now, the approach is being experimented in 469978-1-4244-8136-1/10/$26.00 c2010 IEEE the movie domain, using a subset of the MovieLens2 dataset the recommender system of GroupLens3 Our contribution in this paper is 1 2 obtained by the collaborative filtering 3 This paper is organized as follows: first, we present some related works in the domain of recommender systems. Then we present in detail our recommendation approach for a particular category of users, then the experimental results and their evaluation. Finally, we discuss our work and the future contributions II. RELATED WORK Many recommender systems use association rules for computing the recommendations [11][14]. For example, the authors of [13] discretize the users ratings by computing the average rating he gives. This helps to binarize the ratings by distinguishing the liked and the disliked items, but this can also be a problem in the case of a user who rates mainly items he likes \(or dislikes subsequently computed and stored in an acyclic graph used to extract the personalized association rules for the user. The approach of [12] is based on the Apriori algorithm [15] and the CBA-RG algorithm [16]. It aims at finding N association rules for each user by fixing the minimum confidence and by adapting the minimum support to obtain the N rules. This allows one to generate recommendations for people with uncommon interests. The disadvantage of this technique is that by adapting the minimum support, there is typically a loss of quality of the rules and consequently some irrelevant recommendations Unlike [13], we perform the binarization of the history items according to a threshold we fixed. However, rating patterns are taken into account to categorize users. Indeed users are classified into categories according to their ratings 


habits \(exclusive ratings of liked \(disliked balanced ratings nent. This differences are then taken into account during the recommendation process. We also put a major importance on the trust of the recommended items, especially when issued from collaborative filtering. Thats why, we go beyond the confidence of the association rules. Indeed, we tend to check the relevance of the recommendations issued from the association rule mining. Each recommended item is analyzed semantically thanks to an ontology and to the user behavior Ontologies have already been used in recommender systems [17], [18]. The authors of [17] introduce AVATAR, a TV recommender system. The proposed framework relies on an OWL ontology which defines several features of a 2http://www.movielens.org 3http://www.grouplens.org TV program. Semantic associations are computed. This consists in finding programs appealing to the users interests by the way of semantic paths based on the user history The programs are first sorted out according to the weight which had been computed and they are finally presented to the user. Unlike AVATAR, our system doesnt try to discover semantic paths in order to find recommendations. It tends to determine the relevance of the candidate items for the recommendation \(issued from the collaborative module This is done by analyzing the shared characteristics of these items with the characteristics of the users history items. Moreover, the semantic measure is designed to fit any domain, and consequently any ontology. All that is needed is to apply the semantic module on the concepts representing the recommended items and the process will automatically adapt to the domain Recommender systems propose a solution to solve some particular recommendation problems, such as the lack of information about the user \(a new user or a user who doesnt give explicit feedback   items for users with uncommon interests [12]. Our approach aims at detecting the relevant problem for a particular user and combine recommender modules in a way which suits the user. Several combinations have been used to create hybrid recommender systems [2], [8], [19][21], and the author of [2] identified 7 ways to combine recommender 


systems. Let us focus on cascade, mixed and switched techniques. In cascade hybrids, one recommender is used to produce recommendations, and the other recommendation techniques are applied to refine and reorder the output of the last recommender. Mixed hybrids tend to present a mixed result issued from different recommender systems Finally, switched hybrids use one technique instead of another depending on certain criteria. Our approach belongs to this three categories. The recommender system is actually based on many modules. It first switches between the recommendation techniques according to the user category Some selected modules are then used in a cascading way but not all of them. At the end, a mixed result of the independent recommendation modules and the cascading ones is presented to the user III. COLLABORATIVE AND SEMANTICBASED RECOMMENDATION APPROACH In this section, we introduce the recommendation process executed for a particular category of users. In fact, the recommender system depicted in Fig. 1 is composed of many recommendation modules which can be combined in different ways. We assume that such a combination shouldnt be the same for all the users. For example, semantics should be mainly used for a user with sharp interests. On the other hand, it is relevant to use collaborative filtering for users with various interests 470 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications Figure 1. The recommendation framework Our recommendation framework aims at dealing with the problems encountered during a recommendation process and at explaining the obtained results. As a matter of fact, users behave differently which is not convenient when a one size fits all recommender system is applied. Consequently the system begins by learning the user model. This is done by analyzing explicit \(ratings, forms clickstream, research user is identified: user with few explicit feedbacks, user who rates only non appreciated items, user with sharp ratings user with sharp interests, and user with various interests According to the user type, the best combination of several recommendation modules is computed. We wont further discuss this process here. However, we present the recom 


mendation process used for a user with various interests A user with various interests needs varying but adapted recommendations. Actually, such a user can be classified in many groups at the same time according to his interests. The usage of collaborative filtering is then justified for serendipity. After that, the personalization of the results should be performed using the semantics of the items and the frequency of their characteristics. Thus, a hybrid recommender system that is both collaborative and semantic-based is needed. Such a recommendation process is depicted in Fig. 2. It consists of the combination of different recommendation modules that lead to the explained recommendation of a set of items. The first step consists in performing collaborative filtering using user behaviors to generate a first set of rules. This is done by means of association rule mining and is detailed in Sect. III-B. In the semantic part described in Sect. III-C, the semantics of the items is used thanks to an ontology described in OWL4. The users interest for each concept is computed which helps to refine the users degree of interest for the candidate items and classify them according to the users 4http://www.w3.org/2004/OWL Figure 2. The recommendation process for a user with various interests history \(features which appear frequently in the user history are more weighted and this is used for sorting the items Finally, in Sect. III-D, we explain the use of a frequency module which finds relations between item features. What comes out at the end are items of interest for the user The sequencing of these successive modules and the storage of their results can explain the obtained recommendations Indeed, after passing each module, the sequence which led to the current result is saved. This provides a means for real semantics for the resulting recommendations A. Items and User Model According to the established user model, the users data are collected into user profiles5. The user profiles are updated automatically and explicitly \(the user gives the data himself by rating items and/or entering information in forms implicitly \(clickstream data and research are used to discover other interests of the user the user is considered as an entity, not as a member of a user group and on a long-term-basis \(the user profile is persistent 


history is contained in the system: a set of items with their valuations and this helps to identify their interests. In the following, we use valuation to refer to an implicit or explicit rating. The usage of implicit and explicit data is not the same in the different modules B. Collaborative Filtering Module 1 performed by computing association rules. Association rule mining is commonly used to perform market based analysis 15]. It is used to discover patterns linking items purchased 5A user profile is an instantiation of the user model 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 471 together by customers. For example, a possible association rule may detect that most customers who buy cheese also buy red wine. Formally, an association rule is an expression X ? B where X ? I and B ? \(I \\ X respectively called body and head In the context of recommender systems, using association rule mining aims at discovering items that might interest the user based on the previous items he has rated and which have also been rated similarly by a group of users. Typically they discover sequential patterns between session profiles The problem is that a session profile is relevant in certain domains only \(webmarket for example a movie rental platform, a session profile has no meaning This is why, we expend the session profile to a short-term profile, which allows domain-independence There is a great deal of research dealing with association rule mining in recommender systems [22]. Association rule mining allows one to compute the rules off-line, which is significant as it reduces the recommendation process time Furthermore, model-based algorithms such as association rule mining, are more robust when dealing with profile injection attacks6 than memory-based algorithms \(k nearest neighbors whole set of users to generate recommendations while memory-based ones only use the most similar users who can have in this case attacker profiles [13]. Finally, association rule mining deals well with the scalability problem. Actually it is fast to implement and execute and it manages well large sets of data. This is why it represents the core of our collaborative module 


To be preserved, an association rule must satisfy two measures The support of an itemset A, denoted s\(A the frequency of the itemset A among the set of transactions T \(users history items in the context s\(A The con?dence of a rule X ? B, denoted c\(X ? B is defined by: c\(X ? B X?B s\(X Association rules are mined using the Apriori algorithm 15]. The liked and disliked items are first distinguished in the user history using their item ratings. This is done in order to gain a global view of the liked and disliked items For ratings between 1 and 5, values strictly lower than 4 are considered to represent disliked items. On the other hand values equal to or higher than 4 represent items that fit the users taste. Thus, items can be labeled with two values l like dislike users who have rated some of these items, we can obtain the extraction of the rules This module doesnt depend on a particular user. The computation is conducted generally for all users and is 6The insertion of multiple profiles under false identities in order to promote or denote the recommendation of a particular item performed periodically 2 aims at personalizing the association rules for the user The association rules are filtered according to the user by applying the following rules in the following order a of items contained in the users history \(this is a strong rule which can be relaxed  see Sect. V b the head because there is no sense in recommending an item he has already consulted c because there is no sense in recommending to the user an item he will not appreciate d as a consequence of \(b c Example: Let us consider movie recommendation Given a user u who rated and liked the movies F1, F3 and 


F5 denoted F l1, F l3 and F l5. The following rules are obtained r1 : {F l1, F l3} ? {F l5 r2 : {F l1, F l2} ? {F l4 r3 : {F l3, F l5} ? {F d6 r4 : {F l1, F l5} ? {F l3, F l7 By the application of \(b d kept. The rule r2 is also not kept by the application of \(a r3 is not kept after passing \(c d r?4 : {F l1, F l5} ? {F l7} because of \(b rule r?4 This result is justified because r1 leads to the recommendation of an item already consulted by the user, which is useless. r2 doesnt fit the user because he hasnt consulted all of the items contained in the body so we cannot make any conclusions. The recommendation of r3 is not accurate because the item is predicted as disliked. Finally, we can extract rule r4 which results in a possible recommendation the item F7 C. Semantic-Based Module This module is based on an ontology. An ontology is an explicit specification of a shared conceptualization [23]. It is used to formally describe domains by means of concepts and properties. Typically, concepts are classes and properties are relations characterizing the concepts. A property has a domain and a range. For example, the domain of the property hasActor\(Film,Actor Instances of concepts and properties are called individuals7 In the following, we denote C as the set of the concepts of the the ontology, and Rel as the set of properties \(relations We consider that an item is characterized by the concepts hes related to. Moreover, each concept has its proper influence on each user. This is why, the interest of a user 7The terms instance and individual are used without distinction 472 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications in an item is defined by his interest in the concepts related to the item. The user preference for a concept over another is learned by analyzing his profile. We do not explain this process in this paper Once the association rules concerning the user are identified, we use the ontology to compute the interests of each item in the head. This helps to refine the obtained results from the previous module. Indeed, before applying 


the semantic module, the recommendation is issued from collaborative filtering. While in some cases these recommendations can fit the user, it is possible that they dont suit his other interests. This semantic module performs the required adjustments and takes into account the user as a unique entity The prediction of the interest of these features of item f uses the following parameters for the user u the users valuations for the items which have at least one shared feature with f the number of occurrences of each feature of f among those rated by u This is done in two steps: the computation of the instance interest and then the computation of the concept interest 1 Definition: Given a user u, the interest of u for an instance i is a prediction based on the past valuations of u for the items connected to i by a certain relation R ? Rel An instance i is connected to 0 to n items in the users history. Thus, 0 to n valuations related to this instance are obtained. The interest of i is then estimated according to the valuations connected with it. This is done by computing the median of these valuations. Actually, median allows one to avoid extreme and unusual values which add some noise when computing a basic average of a set of values instanceInterest\(u, i median\({eval\(u, f f, i 1 where eval\(u, f f 2 Definition: Given a user u, the interest of u according to a concept c for an item f is based on the instance interests of the individuals of the concept c connected to f by a certain relation R ? Rel conceptInterestc\(u, f   i?{i? |?R?Rel R\(f,i i instanceInterest\(u, i ratioocc\(u, i   


i?{i? |?R?Rel R\(f,i i ratioocc\(u, i 1 2 where ratioocc\(u, i instance i among the instances of the same concept in the users history D. Frequency Module This module aims at detecting the frequent instances and the frequent associations of instances. Indeed, such a frequency depicts an important interest of the user for the concerned instances. Consequently, it is relevant to recommend items with these characteristics to the user 1 considers the profile of the user. It aims at detecting the most important features of interest for the user Regardless of the estimated interest of an instance for a user, we consider that if the user has in his history a significant percentage of items which have as a feature that particular instance, the interest of this instance is significant Unlike the previous computation, this computation ignores the users ratings for the items which have the instance as a feature Example: A user who has watched 80% of the films interpreted by the actor Tom Hanks should get the recommendation of the other 20% he has not seen even if some of the films of Tom Hanks in his history are badly rated 2 case with frequent instances described above, this part of the module deals not only with the profile of the user, but also with the set of items. It aims at discovering frequent associations between the features in the user history. It detects the features that often occur together in order to discover new recommendations. To achieve this, frequent sets of the instances related to the items in the users history are computed. Then, items with such instances are recommended to the user Example: A possible frequent association is the actor Johnny Depp and the director Tim Burton. A user who is interested in these two instances will be recommended the other films related to them E. Recommendation and explanation 


As explained in Sect. II, the collaborative and the semantic modules are in cascade. Consequently, the result is a set of recommendations rec1 which is mixed with the recommendations of the frequency module rec2 such that rec1 is presented before rec2 to the user. This order can be inverted according to user feedback. Concerning the explanation of the recommendations, this is done by highlighting the instances which have highly scored the interest of the user for the items of rec1, and by highlighting the frequent instances in the items of rec2 F. Example In this section, we illustrate the recommendation process for any user u, in the movie domain. We will simplify to preserve the clarity of the example 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 473 Table I EXTRACT OF THE PROFILE OF THE USER u Film Rating Transformation Psycho 5 Psychol Rear Window 4 Rear Windowl Four Weddings and a Funeral 4 Four Weddings and a Funerall Monty Pythons Life of Brian 5 Monty Pythons Life of Brianl Carrie 3 Carried Stephen Kings The Langoliers 1 Stephen Kings The Langoliersd Pulp Fiction 4 Pulp Fictionl Dr. Strangelove 2 Dr. Strangeloved A Clockwork Orange 1 A Clockwork Oranged Let us consider u who has rated the movies in Tab. I Collaborative Filtering Module: Let us assume that the association rule mining result is r1 : {Psychol, Pulp Fictionl} ? {The Shiningl r2 : {Pulp Fictionl,Monty Pythons Life of Brianl Monty Python and the Holy Graill r3 : {Monty Python and the Holy Graill, Jurassic Parkl Indiana Jones and the Last Crusadel According to the rules introduced in Sect III-B2, we only keep the association rules r1 and r2 Semantic-Based Module: In this step, the interest of the user for each movie in the head of each rule from the last module is computed. The concerned movies are The Shining and Monty Python and the Holy Grail For The Shining, we obtain the following interest re 


sults conceptInterestActor \(u, TheShining conceptInterestDirector \(u, TheShining conceptInterestWriter \(u, TheShining conceptInterestGenre \(u, TheShining Unlike the prediction of the previous modules, it seems that The Shining is not a good recommendation for u Actually, this film shares its director with Dr. Strangelove and A Clockwork Orange which are negatively rated by u Moreover, it has a writer in common with Carrie and The Langoliers which are also movies disliked by u. The same reasoning is made about the concepts Actor and Genre Concerning Monty Python and the Holy Grail, the interests by concept are conceptInterestActor \(u, HolyGrail conceptInterestDirector \(u, HolyGrail conceptInterestWriter \(u, HolyGrail conceptInterestGenre \(u, HolyGrail This recommendation is a good one. The film shares its actors, writers and director with Monty Pythons Life of Brian which is highly rated by the user. The recommendation is thus justified Figure 3. Extract of the movie ontology Frequency Module: Let us assume that the user rated 60% of Alfred Hitchcocks films \(in Tab. I, Psycho and Rear Window are some of them recommended to u IV. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION A. Ontology Description For the experimentation, we built the ontology manually see Fig. 3 IMDB8. We focused only on a set of data which led to the concepts Film, Person, Actor, Director, Writer and Genre The connections between these concepts are Each movie is related to a certain number of persons who can be actors, directors or writers but it can also be related to other movies \(Example: Free Willy 2: The Adventure Home and Free Willy 3: The Rescue are related A person and a movie have a genre \(Action, Adventure Animation, Children, Comedy, Crime, etc B. Experimentation and Evaluation 


We use a subset of the dataset provided by MovieLens, the recommender system of GroupLens Research. The dataset contains a set of users, the set of items they have evaluated with a rating between 1 \(for the least liked for the most liked framework, we deal with a set of 86 movies, 934 users and 13 053 ratings. The dataset contains 3593 actors, 77 directors, 275 writers and 17 genres Using a 65% confidence and a 5% support, association rule mining resulted in 1472 rules after running the collaborative module. We evaluated the results obtained from the system by eighteen 20-50-year-old volunteers. The evaluation consisted exclusively in explicit valuations \(ratings 8http://www.imdb.com 474 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications Figure 4. Users evaluation of the system between 1 and 5 rated at the beginning between 11 and 31 films. For each recommended item, the user rates it as liked or disliked. If an item is rated as liked, the recommendation is considered as accurate. Otherwise, the system explains the reason why this item is recommended. The user can then agree with this explanation or not. Explanation of recommendation can be effective in convincing users in their appreciation of the items [24]. In our approach, the explanation aims at discovering if the detected patterns in the recommended item are accurate or not. Let us consider the following explanation in the recommendation of a film: This film may interest you because you frequently watched Tim Burtons films with Johnny Depp. If the user agrees with the explanation, that means that the association \(Tim Burton - Johnny Depp relevant but this particular film do not appeal to the user Otherwise, we consider that the detected association was purely a coincidence. In this case, the system will be able to ignore this pattern for this user in the future The results of this evaluation are depicted on Fig. 4. We can see that 84,9% of the recommendations satisfy the users Concerning the recommendations rated as disliked, 59,4% of the explanations are approved by users. Finally, 93,9% of the recommendations are satisfying or approved An average of 5 recommendations is obtained by running the collaborative and the semantic-based modules \(which is 


acceptable due to the low number of movies  86  in the dataset frequency module. This difference is due to the fact that the cascading modules \(collaborative and semantic-based are limited by the unique usage of the ratings to compute the association rules. The frequency module, on the other hand, is based on a statistical analysis of the item contents Consequently, it does not suffer from the sparsity of the user rating matrix like the previous modules The collaborative module results in some recommendations which are not liked by users. Fortunately, such recommendations are eliminated by the semantic-based module Other recommendations are eliminated by the semanticbased module though they appeal to users. We explain this because the concerned items dont share any features with the ones in the users history. This is why, we aim at introducing a semantic similarity measure to alleviate this problem \(see Sect. V module recommendations and 58,1% of the explanations of the disliked recommendations, satisfy the users. We can conclude that the combination of all the modules results in better recommendations V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In our work, we propose a hybrid recommender system that combines collaborative filtering and semantic analysis of the items. The approach is based on many modules that refine the rules which progressively lead to a recommendation. A process targeting users with various interests is described. First, the collaborative filtering step is achieved using association rule mining which is a flexible way to classify the user. His history is then used to make the results more adapted to him. The semantic module aims at refining the recommendation issued from the rules. Finally, a frequency module is used to discover other items of interest for the user. Using distinct modules allows us to explain the recommendations to the user The results we have obtained from the evaluation experiments are promising. The combination of the collaborative and semantic modules improves the quality of the recommendations and the frequency module adds new ones. 93,9 of the recommendations are satisfying or approved In near future, we aim at defining the approach to learn 


the user profile in order to adapt the combination of the recommendation modules. We also plan to improve the semantic module by defining the semantic similarity between instances [25], [26]. Thus, when computing the interest by instance, those which are semantically similar to the current instance can be used when the instance is not present in the users history This similarity could also be used during the personalization of the association rules. The personalization rule \(a which consists in only keeping the rules which have a body composed of items contained in the users history, can be relaxed if the items violating \(a the items in the users history. The advantage of the semantic similarity is that it can be computed off-line which does not slow down the recommendation process Another improvement we want to introduce is the use of implicit data collected and based on the users behavior e.g. his search history, the time he spent looking at an item and his navigational patterns. This will help to increase the knowledge about the user and, in turn, lead to a better understanding of his expectations Finally, we plan to experiment the framework on other domains to confirm the domain-independence of the system REFERENCES 1] G. Adomavicius and A. Tuzhilin, Toward the next generation of recommender systems: A survey of the state-of-the-art and 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 475 possible extensions, IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng., vol. 17 no. 6, pp. 734749, 2005 2] R. Burke, Hybrid recommender systems: Survey and experiments, User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 331370, 2002 3] K. Lang, Newsweeder: Learning to filter netnews, in Proceedings of the 12th International Machine Learning Conference \(ML, 1995 4] M. J. Pazzani and D. Billsus, Content-based recommendation systems, in The Adaptive Web, P. Brusilovsky, A. Kobsa, and W. Nejdl, Eds., 2007, vol. 4321, pp. 325341 5] P. Resnick, N. Iacovou, M. Suchak, P. Bergstrom, and J. Riedl Grouplens: An open architecture for collaborative filtering of netnews, in Proceedings of ACM 1994 Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, Chapel Hill, North 


Carolina, 1994, pp. 175186 6] B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, and J. Reidl, Itembased collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms, in Proceedings of the 10th international conference on World Wide Web \(WWW 295 7] B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, and J. Riedl, Analysis of recommendation algorithms for e-commerce, in Proceedings of the 2nd ACM conference on Electronic commerce \(EC Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA, 2000, pp. 158167 8] M. Balabanovic and Y. Shoham, Fab: content-based, collaborative recommendation, Commun. ACM, vol. 40, no. 3, pp 6672, 1997 9] D. Billsus and M. J. Pazzani, User modeling for adaptive news access, User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction vol. 10, no. 2-3, pp. 147180, 2000 10] M. J. Pazzani, A framework for collaborative, content-based and demographic filtering, Artif. Intell. Rev., vol. 13, no. 5-6 pp. 393408, 1999 11] S. Castagnos, A. Brun, and A. Boyer, Probabilistic association rules for item-based recommender systems, in Proceedings of the Fourth Starting AI Researchers Symposium STAIRS 12] W. Lin, Association rule mining for collaborative recommender systems, Masters thesis, Faculty of the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, 2000 13] J. J. Sandvig, B. Mobasher, and R. Burke, Robustness of collaborative recommendation based on association rule mining, in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM conference on Recommender systems \(RecSys 14] B. Mobasher, H. Dai, T. Luo, and M. Nakagawa, Effective personalization based on association rule discovery from web usage data, in Proceedings of the 3rd international workshop on Web information and data management \(WIDM Georgia, USA, 2001, pp. 915 15] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases, in Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data, New York, NY, USA, 1993, pp. 207 216 16] B. Liu, W. Hsu, and Y. Ma, Integrating classification and association rule mining, in Knowledge Discovery and Data 


Mining, New York City, New York, USA, Aug. 1998, pp 8086 17] Y. Blanco-Fernandez, J. J. P. Arias, A. Gil-Solla, M. R Cabrer, M. L. Nores, J. G. Duque, A. F. Vilas, R. P. D Redondo, and J. B. Munoz, A flexible semantic inference methodology to reason about user preferences in knowledgebased recommender systems, Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 21 no. 4, pp. 305320, 2008 18] S. E. Middleton, H. Alani, N. R. Shadbolt, and D. C. D Roure, Exploiting synergy between ontologies and recommender systems, in Semantic Web Workshop 2002 At the Eleventh International World Wide Web Conference, 2002 19] M. Zanker and M. Jessenitschnig, Case-studies on exploiting explicit customer requirements in recommender systems User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, vol. 19, no 1-2, pp. 133166, 2009 20] N. Ducheneaut, K. Partridge, Q. Huang, B. Price, M. Roberts E. H. Chi, V. Bellotti, and B. Begole, Collaborative filtering is not enough? experiments with a mixed-model recommender for leisure activities, in Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on User Modeling, Adaptation, and Personalization \(UMAP 21] H. Nguyen and P. Haddawy, The decision-theoretic interactive video advisor, in Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence \(UAI 494501 22] B. Mobasher, Data mining for web personalization, in The Adaptive Web, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science P. Brusilovsky, A. Kobsa, and W. Nejdl, Eds. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2007, vol. 4321, ch. 3, pp. 90135 23] T. R. Gruber, A translation approach to portable ontology specifications, Knowl. Acquis., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 199220 1993 24] N. Tintarev and J. Masthoff, The effectiveness of personalized movie explanations: An experiment using commercial meta-data, in Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems AH 25] R. Albertoni and M. D. Martino, Asymmetric and contextdependent semantic similarity among ontology instances Journal on Data Semantics, vol. 10, pp. 130, 2008 26] X. Jin and B. Mobasher, Using semantic similarity to 


enhance item-based collaborative filtering, in 2nd IASTED International Conference on Information and Knowledge Sharing, Scottsdale, Arizona, 2003 476 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


Basi Association Rles Basi c  Association R u les Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of events Ol dib t f ilt t O n l y d escr ib e se t s o f s i mu lt aneous even t s Cannot describe patterns that iterate over time e g  itemset a  0  b  0  g    Eg If you sense higher data rates on the downlink than normal AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 20 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


