978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  1 Hyperspectral Microwave Atmospheric Sounder \(HyMAS Architecture and Design Accommodations Lawrence Hilliard, Paul Racette NASA Goddard Space Flight Center 8800 Greenbelt Road Greenbelt MD 20771 301-286-9294 Lawrence.M.Hilliard@NASA.gov  Paul.E.Racette@NASA.gov   William Blackwell, Christopher Galbraith, Erik Thompson MIT - Lincoln Laboratory 244 Wood Street Lexington, MA 02420-9108 781-981-7973 wjb@ll.mit.edu  chris.galbraith@ll.mit.edu  Erik.Thompson@ll.mit.edu    Abstract 227The Hyperspectral Microwave Atmospheric 
Sounder \(HyMAS\ being developed at Lincoln Laboratories and accommodated by the Goddard Space Flight Center for a flight opportunity on a NASA research aircraft. The term 223hyperspectral microwave\224 is used to indicate an all-weather sounding that performs equivalent to hyperspectral infrared sounders in clear air with vertical resolution of approximately 1 km. Deploying the HyMAS equipped scanhead with the existing Conical Scanning Microwave Imaging Radiometer CoSMIR\ shortens the path to a flight demonstration Hyperspectral microwave is achieved through the use of independent RF antennas that sample the volume of the Earth\222s atmosphere through various levels of frequencies 
thereby producing a set of dense, spaced vertical weighting functions. The simulations proposed for HyMAS 118/183-GHz system should yield surface precipitation rate and water path retrievals for small hail, soft hail, or snow pellets, snow rainwater, etc. with accuracies comparable to those of the Advanced Technology Microwave Sounder. Further improvements in retrieval methodology \(for example polarization exploitation\are expected The CoSMIR instrument is a packaging concept re-used on HyMAS to ease the integration features of the scanhead. The HyMAS scanhead will include an ultra-compact Intermediate Frequency Processor \(IFP\ module that is mounted inside the door to improve thermal management. The IFP is fabricated 
with materials made of Low-Temperature Co-fired Ceramic LTCC\chnology integrated with detectors, amplifiers, A/D conversion and data aggregation. The IFP will put out 52 channels of 16 bit data comprised of 4 \226 9 channel data streams for temperature profiles and 2-8 channel streams for water vapor With the limited volume of the existing CoSMIR scanhead and new HyMAS front end components, the HyMAS team at Goddard began preliminary layout work inside the new drum Importing and re-using models of the shell, the scan head computer, and the slip rings developed for CoSMIR was the starting point. The next step was to modify the antenna faceplate to accommodate the dimensions of the three dual 
polarization Gaussian Optics Antenna \(GOA\assemblies. Two mechanical concepts for the core technology, the hyperspectral IFP, were captured in a design tradeoff. Connector models considered minimum bend radii for the IFP analog connectors Hyperspectral imaging is accomplished by strategically using a short wavelength intermediate frequency of 18-29 GHz, and thus reducing the size of components in the connection of the front end to the IFP. The SMK \(2.92mm\ Series connector will lay near the hinge line to minimize its\222 flexing The digital output of the IFP will use a Serial Peripheral Interface \(SPI\hat must be accommodated by the scan head computer. To make that computer more reliable, maintainable and forward compatible with the 52 HyMAS channels, a 
testbed of the scan head, calibration, and archive computers and the PIC24 microprocessor that resides on the IFP is in development. The computers will be programmed using a new framework application called Interoperable Remote Component \(IRC\his software allows flexibility to program computers that communicate with each other and can adapt easily to the emerging HyMAS requirements for data format algorithms, and graphical user interface \(GUI\ It is expected that the CoSMIR instrument will cut over to the IRC after it is adapted on an updated CoSMIR testbed T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2 
 H Y MAS  D ESCRIPTION 2  3  C O SMIR/C O SSIR    H Y MAS COMPARISON 5  4  LTCCBASED IF ELECTRONICS R ESULTS 6  5  S UMMARY 7 6.A CKNOWLEDGEMENT 7 R EFERENCES 8  B IOGRAPHY 8   1  I NTRODUCTION  The Hyperspectral Microwave Atmospheric Sounder 
HyMAS\nstrumentation capability takes a new step in prototyping for NASA and NOAA research. Hyperspectral measurements at all-weather microwave frequencies have previously been deferred until a breakthrough in miniaturization of filter banks was realized. That breakthrough, in a 10 cm x 10 cm x 1cm envelope allocated to the IF electronics in HyMAS, will lead the way to high resolution vertical profiling.  This paper is organized as follows. The hyperspectral microwave concept is first introduced, and it is demonstrated that 52 channels can be realized in 2 bands that provide temperature and water vapor profiles. A comparison of the design characteristics of 


  2 CoSMIR/ CoSSIR and HyMAS is presented. We then describe the strategy used in the configuration to accommodate the Low Temperature Co-fired Ceramic LTCC\echnology. The Interoperable Remote Component IRC\ architecture is also being introduced in the HyMAS build. All configurations presented in this paper are carried out by adapting to the CoSMIR scanhead. Finally, we summarize and provide suggestions for further research and development 2  H Y MAS  D ESCRIPTION  Front End  The block diagram in Figure 1 illustrates the overall strategy that must be used to fit 52 channels in the HyMAS scanhead. Down conversion to a relatively high IF band of 18-29 GHz allows the connecting hardware to remain small A 1 st stage IF amplifier inside the mixer housing sets the sensitivity and dynamic range for the amplifier and filtering functions in the IF electronics     Figure 1 \226 Block diagram showing both the HyMAS RF electronics and core technology in the IF filter bank  Gaussian Optics Lens Antennas GOAs Waveguide spacer to accommodate RF Preamp option       Feed #1 172-183 GHz Feed #2 and #3 108-119 GHz 


  3 Gaussian Lens Antennas 227 saving on the room required for an orthomode transducer\(OMT\, the HyMAS design uses a 2 pol Gaussian optics lens antenna\(GOA\ for all 3 feeds Matched 3.1-3.3 beams are achieved with a slight defocus of the 183 GHz beam. Both polarizations on each GOA are also matched and early results indicate that they are meeting specifications. Sidelobes appear to be >23 dB below the main beam  RF Preamp option 227 To achieve the best sensitivity and dynamic range for single sideband, we ultimately want to amplify at RF before the mixer conversion loss dominates the measurement. For now, we are accommodating this future option with a waveguide spacer. The specifications for this chip at 185 GHz are: 5 dB noise figure, 20 dB gain 13 dB input and output match. When signal into the mixer is amplified then LO mixing power can be reduced with less impact to the system sensitivity  Mixer/IF amp Assembly 227 Conversion loss is specified at 6 dB \(DSB\d the 1 st IF amplifier will be incorporated into the mixer block to provide approximately 25 dB gain over a 18-29 GHz bandwidth. Gain Flatness is specified as 2612 dB and Noise Figure < 3 dB over the IF bandwidth  Figure 2: The integrated mixer amplifier saves volume and comes matched to a 50 ohm load photo courtesy of Virginia Diodes, Inc   Local Oscillator Chain 227An example of these components was configured with commercial off the shelf \(COTS components to estimate volume and power. The phase locked dielectric resonator oscillator chains must provide required power to both of 2 mixers \(estimate = 2-4 mW subharmonic mixing frequency to produce 18-29 GHz intermediate frequency. Frequency temperature stability is 250 KHz/degree Celsius centered at 77.15 GHz over -10 C to +40 C. For the 118 GHz channels, the same oscillator must drive four mixers at 2-4 mW. Local oscillator DC-RF power efficiency is always a driver of system power, and ultimately, volume and mass when LO power must be split requiring more thermal control components Compact IF Processor \(IFP using LTCC-based IF filters 227This is the key technology on the HyMAS project allowing the IF back-end to be accommodated with minimal real estate in the drum. The IFP sits on the inside wall of the doors that allow access to the scan head drum. Six SMK coax connectors for input and 1 \2239-pin D\224 for control, DC power, and digital output are placed in the hinge of the door to minimize flex. The position on the door will be ideal for heat spreading in the drum. Figure 3a and 3b describe the functional and physical layout of the IFP. The IF amplifier consumes 220 mWatts and is located near one corner of the filter bank real estate. This relative orientation of the amplifier to the filters spreads out the heat when the vertical stacked filters and more compact form factors are employed Vertical stacked filters will improve channel isolation due to less trace-trace coupling but horizontal filters shown in figure 3b provided better access for early prototyping and test probing. With the vertical stacking, there will be better spurious response due to reduced feed and adjacent resonator coupling and there is also less filter loss because of fewer resonators. Integrating the diode detector circuits Figure 3b\urther reduces the footprint and simplifies channel filter output signal routing \(since it is then a nearDC signal instead.of 18-29 GHz RF  Figure 3a and 3b: The various functions of the HyMAS IF electronics filter bank comp onents in functional block diagram and in physical design of a 9-channel prototype  


  4  The ultimate physical design target is a 10 cm x 10 cm x 1 cm multilayer package that has some flexibility to grow in  the scan head accommodation. Figure 4 depicts such an accommodation, if needed. The scan head computer is depicted in red. The antennas are depicted in gray. Because of its location on the door, significant attention must be paid to the location of the SMK \(2.92mm\ Series connector. It will lay near the hinge line to minimize its flexing Likewise, the D connector for the serial peripheral interface SPI\eeds to be carefully pl aced to be able to reach the scan head computer, but not jam it when the door closes and not introduce electrical noise in the RF or IF chains   Figure 4: The 10 cm x 20 cm x 1 cm accommodation for the IFP depicted \(in green\on the inner wall of the scan head door  Backend    Figure 5a: The key functional components of the IFP analog/digital side\ and the dc power consumption of each \(in red  IFP post-detection signal processing 227On the top side of the HyMAS IFP, there will be compact analog and digital electronics to process the output of the IF filter bank. A chain of op-amp based amplifiers and active filters picks up the detected outputs of each of the 52 channels \(routed through vias from the RF detectors\ancing the IF dynamic range and providing a mid-full scale input to multichannel ADCs. The digitized output of all 52 digital channels is then aggregated by a PIC24 Microcontroller The key components of this circuitry are pointed out in figure 5a. The IF amp, ADC, and PIC24 hot spots on the board are thermally modeled at the board level and these models will be coupled to the scan head thermal models to get rid of heat conductively into the scan head door    Figure 5b: The Scan head computer will pull the data from the IFP over a serial p eripheral interface \(SPI     Figure 5c: Hand-shaking between back end components  Microcontroller/scanhead computer interface 227. HyMAS is the beneficiary of a general upgrade to NASA aircraft instruments that is a development between the Goddard Science Data Processing Branch and several instrument  ADC Signals completion of conversion ADC PIC24 Data Requestor Requests Sample    PIC Processes Request PIC Configures ADC PIC Requests a Conversion PIC Requests data ADC finds data PIC Processes Data PIC Sends Data PIC Signals Data as Ready Requestor requests data 


  5 projects. Figure 5b and 5c describe the 52 channel readout from the Serial Peripheral Interface \(SPI \ managed by the microcontroller on the IFP. The scan head computer adds time tags that register temperatures, voltages, in the front end, and calibration target temperatures. Time-tagged pointing data comes across slip rings from the navigation system and conical scanning mechanism to the archive computer \(figure 5b\he handshaking between the microcontroller and the ADC multiplexes the 52 channels into a serial data stream and then the scanhead computer interrogates the microcontroller adding housekeeping data and time tags in figure 5c. Watchdog timers ensure that the processor does not freeze, and resets were introduced from an external watchdog as well. A preliminary IFP timing budget analysis was done for a specific acquisition pattern 1 channel @ 20KHz, 8 @ 5 KHz for a single channel bank see Table 1\. This analysis seems to indicate that moving to more channels at slower rates seems feasible. The model output shown was for a total of 216 total samples over about 3600 microseconds. Scaling to a single sample for 52 channels gives a sampling period of about 867 microseconds, which is well under the proposed 10 msec sampling period Table 1 and Figure 6: HyMAS Frequency shift and polarization provide 36 unique temperature profiles [3  and two curves show the p rediction for filtering a normalized unit  gain at channels 1and 4   Other than the SPI interface and the increased number of channels, this scanhead data formatting is identical to that which was used by the Conical Scanning Microwave Radiometer CoSMIR and Conical Scanning Submillimeterwave Imaging Radiometer \(CoSSIR\. However, with better technology made available since the development of CoSMIR/CoSSIR, HyMAS will be piggy-backing on a concurrent upgrade of the instrument data system The Interoperable Remote Component \(IRC\s a new application framework that wa s created for controlling and monitoring remote devices and sensors. This framework application is utilized to program functions of each component in the HyMAS instrument. Figure 7 shows the basic framework that will be used to develop graphical user interfaces \(GUIs\ for the new hyperspectral analysis capability prototyped for HyMAS.  CoSMIR and CoSSIR will be able to re-use the IRC code for their own hyperspectral analysis when their instruments become equipped with an IFP adapted to their front end frequencies IRC enables significant savings in development costs by utilizing eXtensible Markup Language \(XML\escriptions to configure the framework for a specific application Instrument Markup Language \(IML\s used to describe the commands used by an instrument, the data streams produced, the rules for formatting commands and parsing the data, and the method of communication. Often no custom code is needed to communicate with a new instrument or devi  Figure 7: The general IRC test bed being developed for multiple aircraft instrumentsblock diagram by Beth Timmons Goddard Science Data Processing Branch  The specific GUI for HyMAS will enable algorithms for temperature and water vapor profiling to run plots that perform quick look analysis versus established models. \(See Figure 8 from d [4      Figure 8: HyMAS temperature weighting functions are shown for the 1976 US Standard Atmosphere over a non-reflective surface at na dir incidence and spectral multiplexing for 1,2,4, and 8 channels d [4 


  6  3  C O SMIR/C O SSIR    H Y MAS COMPARISON  Table 2: HyMAS must fit in the same package as CoSMIR and CoSSIR GOA rendering courtesy of Millitech Corp  CoSMIR CoSSIR Frequencies and Channels and polarizations HyMAS Frequencies and channels   52 channels realized with 18-29 GHz Hyperspectral IFProcessor CoSMIR Frequencies: 9 channels at 50.3, 52.6, 89 \(H V\, 165.5 \(H & V 183.3\2611, 183.3\2613, 183.3\2617 GHz CoSSIR : 12 channels 183874 GHz Frequencies : 2 36 Channels near the 118.75-GHz oxygen line, 16 channels near 183.3 GHz water vapor line CoSMIR/ CoSSIR Field of View \(FOV 002 4 260 beam width \(gives a nadir footprint at the surface of about 1.4 km at the ER-2 aircraft cruising altitude of 20 km 3.1-3.3 Matched beams for 3 horns all w 2 linear polarizations   Table 2 points out the main differences and similarities between HyMAS and its predecessors CoSMIR and CoSSIR The 52 channels realized with HyMAS use the same scan head volume in order to reduce development and flight requalification costs of a new mechanism. The scan head is a cylinder 21.5 cm in diameter and 28.0 cm long. That compatibility is our top priority accommodation in the design. HyMAS will also have scan modes that are programmable. Modes for conical angles between 0 - 53.6 260  across-flight track scans, or combinations of both are available All 3 instruments have in-flight calibration .  Two external targets at <328 K  and at ambient temperature \(<250 at ER-2 aircraft cruising altitudes\which are seen when the antennas roll up and look away from the atmosphere Another synergy of HyMAS technology is that CoSMIR/CoSSIR both have 183 GHz channels at the high end and low end of their respective ranges. Therefore noise injection / calibration and noise coupler technology at 183 GHz is important to all 3 instruments    A Low Noise Amplifier \(LNA\ 183 GHz would reduce Local oscillator power requirements and is especially critical for arrays of receivers Hyperspectral Microwave technology would enhance all 3 instruments scientific return            Table 2 compares the channel capacity of the HyMAS to its predecessors CoSMIR and CoSSIR. With the bulk of the volume taken up by the respective front end hardware, the hyperspectral microwave capability can be demonstrated on HyMAS by miniaturizing the IF processor. It can also be implemented on CoSMIR and CoSSIR to better resolve temperature and water vapor profiles  4  LTCCBASED IF ELECTRONICS R ESULTS   Figure 9: The 10cmx10cmx1cm IFP pack d th e  scan head doors that it must fit on \(CoSMIR pictured on     The current status of miniaturization effort is in transition The 9-channel prototype in the horizontal resonator implementation can only be miniaturized so much to a form factor that is 5 cm high and probably too large for the scan head door. Smaller designs will need to be stacked vertically with less test point access than the initial prototype However, the 9-channel prototype has given us our initial measurements and shown us that, in terms of material properties and process tolerances, Low Temperature Cofired Ceramic \(LTCC\ technology gives acceptable performance up to about 29 GHz for these filter designs We have chosen this relatively high IF frequency band of 18-29 GHz to facilitate miniaturization of the IF processor module.  We have found that even the horizontal resonators have suitable bandwidth and Q factor, inter-channel isolation, and insertion loss.  Simulations predicted ~ 12 dB insertion loss per channel and return loss > 10 dB passbands\he initial tests of the 9-channel prototype in Figures 10 and 11 show that the filtering predicted in figure 6 is spaced by ~156 MHz per channel, but all 9 channels were shifted uniformly, probably due to tolerances in the dielectric constant of the RF substrate. This also could happen in our substrate integrated waveguide \(SIW\but a uniform frequency shift can be accomodated by changing the LO mixing frequency to adapt to a uniform shift in what the IF electronics is looking for.  An 11 GHz IF that is 17 


  7 28 GHz or 19-30 GHz can also work as long as the front end is mixing down to those IF frequencies and the channel spacing is uniform 20 25 30 15 50 40 30 20 10 60 0 freq, GHz dB\(S\(2,1   Figure 10 Individual response of 9-channel HyMAS IF filters  Insertion loss ranged from 2.2 dB in channel 1 at the IF low end frequency of 18.65 GHz \(channel 1\o 5.4 dB at 28.9 GHz \(channel 9, the high end\. Bandwidths ranged from 550-650 MHz, with return loss in the respective pass bands always greater than 10 dB 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 15 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 5 30 10 freq, GHz dB\(S\(1,1   Figure 11: HyMAS 9-channel Prototype Return Loss Channels 1-9 \(>10 dB over each respective passband  Filter resonator unloaded Q \(Q u as estimated from the relationship between filter insertion loss \(IL\nator unloaded Q, fractional bandwidth d the low-pass filter parameters \(g k 222s  003  n k k u g Q IL 1 343.4  Measured Q u 250 was less than simulated \(Q u 600\t still significantly better than microstrip or stripline coupled line filters \(typical Q u 100-150\inally, inter-channel isolation was > 35 dB between channels 3 and 5, 5 and 7 and 7 and 9 as measured between adjacent filters. Isolation improvement is expected with the vertical filter design. The 52-channel HyMAS IFP will be prototyped and tested in August 2013  6  S UMMARY  Accommodation  for the  HyMAS IF frequency of  18-29 GHz has been planned throughout the HyMAS system Careful frequency planning selection of components and component placement has improved the chances that the LTCC implementation of hyperspectral filtering can function in a tight package. The CoSMIR and CoSSIR teams at Goddard have had great success with existing designs but the instruments are undergoing a data system upgrade, and see the potential of the miniaturized filter bank. The preliminary results of the 9-channel prototype filterbank developed by MIT Lincoln Labs is very promising and the implementation of more compact vertical filter structure will likely improve that performance on the flight build expected in August 2013. Further integration into the HyMAS scanhead , instrument, and NASA ER-2 is being planned for summer of 2014  7  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The hyperspectral microwave receiver system will be integrated into a new scanhead compatible with the NASA GSFC Conical Scanning Microwave Imaging Radiometer/Compact Submillimeter-wave Imaging Radiometer \(CoSMIR/CoSSIR\ airborne instrument system to facilitate demonstration and performance characterization under funding from the NASA ESTO Advanced Component Technology program We would also like to acknowledge the Global Precipitation Measurement \(GPM\ Mission which is investing in the adaptation of IRC to the aircraft instruments required for ground calibration and validation. The G-Band LNA work is underway at Goddard Space Flight Center thanks to internal Research and Development funding and previous investment in Small Business Innovative Research The LTCC filter development work was originally sponsored by the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration under Air Force Contract FA8721-05-C0002. Opinions, interpretations, conclusions, and recommendations are those of the authors and are not necessarily endorsed by the United States Government 


  8 R EFERENCES  1  Su tto n  M L  H ill iar d P  Ra cette, N S h u r E. S h e y b a n i    G. Javidi, A. Eslami,  J.Luttamaguzi, D. Djavadi 223Computer Aided Designs of Hyperspectral Microwave Atmospheric Sounder \(HyMAS\Scanhead\224, Summer Internship Poster, July 2012, Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt MD 2  P i ep m e ier  J   Rac e tte, P  W a n g J   Cr ite s A   Do ir o n T   Engler, C.; Lecha, J.; Powers, M.; Simon, E.; Triesky, M Krebs, Carolyn , \223An Airborne Conical Scanning Millimeter-wave Imaging Radiometer \(CoSMIR\ \223 NASA Technical Reports Server NASA Center: Goddard Space Flight Center, Publication Year: 2001,Document ID: 20010091686  e ll, W.J Galbra it h, C Ha n c oc k T L e s l ie R  Osaretin, I. ,  Shields, M. ,  Racette, P. ,  Hilliard, L 223Design and Analysis of a Hyperspectral Microwave receiver subsystem\224, IEEE-IGARSS, 22-27 July. 2012 Munich; Germany  Bl ack w e l l H y p e rs pec t ral  M i cr o w a v e At m o s p h e ri c Sounding, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON GEOSCIENCE AND REMOTE SENSING, VOL. 49, NO. 1, JANUARY 2011  Hos l er, T r o y J an d C  F. Hos t et ter ,  Ins t r u m e n t  R e m o te Control Application Framework, SpaceOps Conference 19-23 Jun. 2006; Rome; Italy 6  W illia m s J   L  Hi lliar d J  B e ck J  Ho s l er G Cr u m E Sheybani,  G. Javidi, A. Eslami,  J.Luttamaguzi, D Djavadi ,\224 Hyperspectral Microwave Atmospheric Sounder Emulator\224, Summer Internship Poster, July 2012 Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt MD B IOGRAPHIES  Lawrence M. Hilliard received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Michigan Technological University in 1983. He has been with NASA GSFC for more than 30 years. He is currently development lead for VLBI2010 in the Space Geodesy Project \(SGP\ at Goddard. Prior to SGP, he led an AESMIR aircraft instrument team winning a Robert Goddard Exceptional Achievement Award. He has also managed efforts for COBE-DMR, SWAS, and Swift-BAT instrument and payload development and has been involved in the formulation and development of numerous aircraft and Earth-orbiting spacecraft and payloads. His career started with parts engineering on the GOES program for NASA Goddard   William J. Blackwell received the B.E.E degree in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology, A tlanta, GA, in 1994 and the S.M. and Sc.D. degrees in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology \(MIT\, Cambridge, MA, in 1995 and 2002 Since 2002, he has worked at MIT Lincoln Laboratory where he is currently an Assistant Leader of the Sensor Technology and System Applications Group. His primary research interests are in the area of atmospheric remote sensing, including the d evelopment and calibration of airborne and spaceborne microwave and hyperspectral infrared sensors, the retrieval of geophysical products from remote radiance measurements, and the application of electromagnetic, signal processing and estimation theory. Dr. Blackwell held a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship from 1994 to 1997 and is a member of Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, Phi Kappa Phi Sigma Xi, the American Meteorological Society, the American Geophysical Union, and Commission F of the International Union of Radio Science.\302  He is currently an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing and the IEEE GRSS Newsletter. He is Chair of the IEEE GRSS Frequency Allocations for Remote Sensing \(FARS\ technical committee, the IEEE GRSS Remo te Sensing Instruments and Technologies for Small Sat ellites worki ng group, and the Boston Section of the IEEE GRSS and serves on the 


  9 NASA AIRS and Suomi NPP science teams and the NPOESS Sounding Operational Algorithm Team. He is the Principal Investigator on the MicroMAS \(Micro-sized Microwave Atmospheric Satellite\ program, comprising a high-performance passive microwave spectrometer hosted on a 3U cubesat planned for launch in 2013.\302  He was previously the Integrated Program Office Sensor Scientist for the Advanced Technology Microwave Sounder on the Suomi National Polar Partnership that launched in 2011 and the Atmospheric Algorithm Development Team Leader for the NPOESS Microwave Imager/Sounder. Dr. Blackwell received the 2009 NOAA David Johnson Award for his work in neural network retrievals and microwave calibration and is co-author of Neural Networks in Atmospheric Remote Sensing published by Artech House in July, 2009.\302  He received a poster award at the 12th Specialist Meeting on Microwave Radiometry and Remote Sensing of the Environment in March 2012 for ``Design and Analysis of a Hyperspectral Microwave Receiver Subsystem'' and was selected as a 2012 recipient of the IEEE Region 1 Managerial Excellence in an Engineering Organization Award ``for outstanding leadership of the multidisciplinary technical team developing innovative future microwave remote sensing systems  Paul E. Racette has been the principal engineer responsible for the overall instrument concept development and deployment of highly-innovative remote sensing instruments. Each of these instruments has produced unique, scientifically rich data. Paul has participated in more than fifteen major field experiments around the world pioneering techniques to observe the Earth. As a member of the senior technical staff at Goddard, he has initiated technology developments research projects, and international collaborations that have advanced the state of th e art in microwave remote sensing and instrument calibration. For these efforts and accomplishments Paul recei ved the NASA Medal for Exceptional Service and was the first recipient of Goddard\222s Engineering Achievement Award established to publicly recognize Goddard\222s highest achieving engineers. In 2005 he completed the requirements for his Doctor of Science in elect rical engineering from The George Washington Universi ty. Recognizing the critical needs in education and a desire to seek new adventures Paul applied and was accepted into the NASA Administrator\222s Fellowship Program. As a NAFP fellow he returned to his home state to serve as a guest faculty at the Haskell Indian Nations University during the 2005 \226 2006 academic year Paul recently completed the s econd year of his fellowship working at NASA Headquarters as Special Assistant to the Deputy Assistant Administrator in the Office of Education  Paul is highly commited to serving the public through professional activities. Paul has served the IEEE in many capacities including secretary of the University of Kansas\222 IEEE student chapter, the Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society\222s New Technology Directions Committee Representative, Chair of the Instrumentation and Future Technologies Committee, and Professional Activities Committee for Engineers Representative. He now serves as Editor-In-Chief for Earthzine  Christopher J. Galbraith is a member of the Technical Staff at MIT Lincoln Laboratory in the RF and Quantum System s group where he develops microwave circuits for communications, radar, and radiometric systems, small form-factor packaging and antennas, and superconducting electronics  He  received the B.S.E.E., M.S.E.E. and Ph.D degrees from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. During the summers of 2001 and 2002, he was an intern with TRW Space and Electronics, Redondo Beach, CA, where he worked on satellite communications syst ems and microwave circuit design. He is active in the IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques society \(MTT-S\ where he currently serves as the chair of the Boston chapter   Erik Thompson Assistant Staff at MIT Lincoln Laboratory. He r eceived a B.E. in Electrical Engineering from Stevens Ins titute of Technology. As a Stevens student T hompson was selected as the Cooperative Education and Internship Student of the Year award by the New Jersey Cooperative Education and Internship Association \(NJCEIA As an undergraduate at Stevens, Thompson took part in five Co-op internships. The first two assignments were with Datascope Patient Monitors, where he worked with the electrical engineering staff to test hospital products and implement fixes. Next, he worked as a computer engineer at the Armament Research, Development and 


  10 Engineering Center \(ARDEC\ at Picatinny Arsensal Finally, Thompson spent two semesters at Safe Flight Instrument Corporation. There, he served as project lead for the development of co ckpit sensors that prevent airplanes from stalling. He was primarily responsible for overseeing the design and testing of software and electronics systems    


  11  


Nature Nature Ecological Applications Nature ACM International Conference on Management of Data \(SIGMOD In Parallel Object-Oriented Scientic Computing \(POOSC Science Communications of the ACM ACM Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs Communications of the ACM HotCloud Proceedings of the 19th ACM International Symposium on High PErformance Distributed Computing HPDC Knowledge and Information Systems KAIS International Conference on Computational Science IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and Science ACM/IEEE Conference on Advances in Social Network Analysis and Mining \(ASONAM IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPS International Conference on Distributed Computing and Networking Journal of Mathematical Sociology International Conference on Parallel Processing Communications of the ACM 
 
observed time taken using 4 workers, are plotted in Figures 16\(A\ and 16\(B We see that our dynamic scaling heuristic using the percentage of active vertices achieves nearly the same CP\ or better \(WG\ performance as a fixed 8 worker approach. Clearly there is benefit of using fewer workers for low utilization su persteps to eliminate the barrier synchronization overhead. Also, the dynamic scaling heuristic performs almost as well as the ideal scaling. Finally, when we consider the monetary cost of the proposed approaches, assuming a pro-rata normalized cost per VM-second plotted on the secondary Y axis, we see that dynamic scaling is comparable \(CP\ or cheaper \(WG\ than a 4 worker scenario while offering the performance of an 8 worker deployment IX C ONCLUSION  In conclusion, we introduce optimization and heuristics for controlling memory utilization and show they are critical to performance.  By breaking computation into swaths of vertices and using our sizing heuristics we achieve up to 3.5x speedup over the maximum swath size that does not cause the a failure.  In addition overlapping swath executions can provide a 24% gain with automated heuristics and even greater speedup when a priori knowledge of the network characteristics is applied This evaluation offers help to eScience users to make framework selection and cost-performancescalability trade-offs. Our he uristics are generalizable and can be leveraged by other BSP and distributed graph frameworks, and for graph applications beyond BC. Our work uncovered an unexpected impact of partitioning and it would be worthwhile, in future, to examine the ability to pred ict, given certain graph properties, a suitable partitioning model for Pregel/BSP It may also be useful to perform such evaluations on larger graphs and more numbers of VMs. At the same time, it is also worth considering if non-linear graph algorithms are tractable in pr actice for large graphs in a distributed environment B IBLIOGRAPHY  1  F  L i lj er os C   Ed l i n g L  A m a r a l H  S t an ley   and Y    berg The web of human sexual contacts 
vol. 411, pp. 907908, 2001   H Je o n g  S   Ma so n A  L   B a ra b s i  a nd Z   Oltva i  L e t ha l i t y  and centrality in protein networks vol. 411, pp. 41-42 2001   O. B o din and E   E s t r ada    U s i n g n e t w ork c e nt r a l i t y  m e a s ures t o  manage landscape connectivity vol 18, no. 7, pp. 1810-1825, October 2008   D. W a ts s  and S  S t r ogat z  C olle c t i v e  d y nam i cs of  s m a ll-w orl d   networks vol. 393, no. 6684, pp. 440…442, June 1998   G  Ma lew i c z   M A u s t er n A   Bik  J   Dehn er t I  Hor n   N. L e i s er and G. Czajkowski, "Pregel: A system for large-scale graph processing," in 2010   D. G r egor  and A  L u m s dain e  T h e  pa r a llel  B G L  A gen e r i c  library for distributed graph computations," in 2005   B. S h a o  H. W a n g  and Y  L i T he T r init y G r aph E n g i n e    Microsoft Research, Technical Report MSR-TR-2012-30, 2012   A  F ox  C lo ud c o m putin g w h at  s  in it for m e  as  a  s c i e n tis t     vol. 331, pp. 406-407, 2011   S. G h e m a w a t  and J  De an   Map re duc e s i m p lifi e d data  processing on large clusters vol 51, no. 3, pp. 107-113, 2008   J  L i n and M. S c hat z   Des i g n  patt er n s  for eff i ci ent gr aph algorithms in MapReduce," in 2010   L   Va l i ant   A b r id g i n g m o d e l f or pa r a llel com putati o n  vol. 33, no. 8, pp. 103-111, 1990 12 a c h e  Ha ma    O n l i n e    http://hama.apache.org   13 Ap a c h e  Ha d o op    O n l i n e    http://hadoop.apache.org     M Z a h a r i a, M. Ch ow dhu ry M F r ank l in S  S h e n k e r, and I   Stoica, "Spark: Cluster Computing with Working Sets," in 2010   J  Ekana y ak e e t a l     T w i st er A  r untim e f o r it er ati v e  MapReduce," in Chicago, 2010, pp. 810-818   U. K a n g  C  T s o u rakakis   and C. F a l outs o s  Peg a s us   Minin g  Peta-scale Graphs," in 2010   M. P a c e  B S P vs  MapR e duc e    in vol. 103.2081, 2012   S. Seo  E  Yoo n, J  K i m  S  J i n  J-S. K i m   and S   Ma e n g HAMA: An Efficient matrix computation with the MapReduce framework," in 2010, pp. 721-726   S. S a l i h ogl u  and J  W i d o m  G PS A G r a ph P r oc e s s i n g Sy s t em    Stanford University, Technical Report 2011   R L i cht e n w a l t e r and N   Cha w la D is Ne t  A fr am ew ork for  distributed graph computation," in  2011   K  Maddu r i  D. E d i g er K   J i an g  D. Bad e r  and D  Cha v a r riaMiranda, "A faster parallel algorithm and efficient multithreaded implementations for evaluating betweenness centrality on massive datasets," in 2009   E  K r e p s k a, T  K i el m a nn, W  F o kkink, H   Ba l, "A  hi g h level framework for distributed processing of large-scale graphs," in 2011, pp. 155-166   L   Pa ge  S  B r in R. M o t w ani and T  W i nogr ad  T h e P a geRank citation ranking: Bringing order to the web," Stanford InfoLab Technical Report 1999-66, 1999   U  Brand  s  A f a s t er  a l gor ith m for  b e t w eenn e s s c e nt r a l i t y    vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 163-177 2001   Stan fo r d  Net w or k A na l y s is Pro j e c t  O n l in e    http://snap.stanford.edu    I  S t ant o n and G  K l i o t, "S t r e a m i n g G r aph P a rtiti o n in g  for L a rge Distributed Graphs," Microsoft Corp., Technical Report MSRTR-2011-121, 2011   G   K a ry pis and V   K um a r A fas t and hi g h qua l i t y m u l t i l evel scheme for partitioning irregular graphs," in 1995, pp. 113-122   M. A r m b r u s t e t  a l   A v i ew of  c l o u d  c o m putin g    vol. 53, no. 0001-0782, pp. 50-58 April 2010  
214 


  13  or gani c  c he m i s t r y  i n our  Sol ar  Sy s t e m       Xi a n g  L i r e c e i v e d h i s B  S   m is tr y  fr o m  th e  P e k in g  U n iv e r s ity  C h in a  in  2 0 0 3  and P h D   i n P hy s i c al  C he m i s t r y  f r om  t he  J ohns  H opk i ns  Un i v e r s i t y  i n  2 0 0 9   He  h a s  b e e n  a  R e s e a r c h  A s s o c i a t e  wi t h  a  j o i n t  a p p o i n t m e n t  a t  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f  M a r y l a n d   Ba l t i m o r e  C o u n t y  a n d  N AS A G o d d a r d  S p a c e  Fl i  Ce n t e r  s i n c e  2 0 1 1   H i s  r e s e a r c h  f o c u s e s  o n  t h e  d e t e c t i o n  of  t r ac e  e l e m e nt  and as t r obi ol ogi c al l y  r e l e v ant  or gani c  mo l e c u l e s  i n  p l a n e t a r y  s y s t e ms   l i k e  M a r s   He  i s  es p eci a l l y i n t er es t ed  i n  t h e d evel o p m en t  o f  T i m e of  and I on T r ap m as s  s pe c t r om e t e r s w i t h v a r i o u s i o n i z a t i o n  ng te c h n iq u e s   Wi l l  B r i n c k e r h o f f  sp a c e  sc i e n t i st  i n  t h e  Pl a n e t a r y  En v i r o n m e n t s  La b  a t  N A S A  s  G o d d a r d  Spac e  F l i ght  C e nt e r  i n Gr e e n b e l t   M D w i t h  pr i m ar y  r e s pons i bi l i t y  f or  th e  d e v e lo p m e n t o f th e  L D TO F  m a s s  s p e c t r o  th is  p r o je c t H e  h a s  fo c u s e d  re c e n t l y  o n  t h e  d e v e l o p m e n t  o f  m i n i a t u re  l a se r d ma s s  s p e c t r o me t e r s  f o r  f u t u r e  p l a n e t a r y  mi s s i o n s  a l o n g  wi t h  b a s i c  e x p e r i m e n t a l  r e s e a r c h  i n  a s t r o b i o l o g y  a n d  p r e bi ot i c  s y nt he s i s   D r   B r i nc k e r hof f  i s  i nv ol v e d i n t he  de v e l opm e nt  of  m as s  s pe c t r om e t e r  f or  bot h t he  2011 Ma r s  S c i e n c e  L a b o r a t o r y  a n d  t h e  2 0 1 8  E x o Ma r s  mi s s i o n s   


  14   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Issues and Observations Initial load of one day of data ~ 7 hours Optimizations  Write data in batches  Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Deploy a higher performance machine  Use load instead of insert  Use DB2 Range-Partitioned tables  Database tunings Time reduced from 7 hours to approx 30 minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Original application created the SQL statement by appending elements to a Java String  It was taking five hours \(of the seven hours Strings  Instead Java StringBuilder used  Java Strings immutable  Time savings of 71.4 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Deployed on a higher-performance machine  Application ported from IBM Blade Center HS21 \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit dual-core Xeon 5130 processor to Dell M4500 computer \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit of quad-core Intel Core i7 processor  Reduced the time to thirty minutes Bulk loading instead of insert  Application was modified to write CSV files for each table  Entire day worth of data bulk loaded  Reduced the time to fifteen minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Range-Partitioned tables \(RPT  To limit the size of tables, the original code created multiple tables per table type  This puts burden on the application to query multiple tables when a range crosses several tables  With RPT, user is not required to make multiple queries when a range crosses a table boundary  Increased the time to thirty minutes  Additional fifteen minute cost per day of partitioning enabled time savings during queries 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Database tunings  Range periods changed from a week to a month  Automatic table space resizing changed from 32MB to 512KB  Buffer pool size decreased  Decreased the time to twenty minutes Overall, total time savings of 95.2 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  20 IBM Confidential Analytics Landscape Degree of Complexity Competitive Advantage Standard Reporting Ad hoc reporting Query/drill down Alerts Simulation Forecasting Predictive modeling Optimization What exactly is the problem What will happen next if What if these trends continue What could happen What actions are needed How many, how often, where What happened Stochastic Optimization Based on: Competing on Analytics, Davenport and Harris, 2007 Descriptive Prescriptive Predictive How can we achieve the best outcome How can we achieve the best outcome including the effects of variability Used with permission of IBM 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Initial Analysis Activities Flights departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving within a date and time range Flights between city pair A,B Flights between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a volume on a date. \(sector, center, etc boundary Flights passing through a volume within a date and time range Flights passing through an airspace volume in n-minute intervals All x-type aircraft departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving on a date between city pair A,B Flights departing or arriving on a date between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a named fix, airway, center, or sector Filed Flight plans for any of the above Actual departure, arrival times and actual track reports for any of the above 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial SPSS Applications Show all tracks by call sign 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case For a given Airspace Volume of Interest \(AVOI compute distinct traffic volume at some point in the future  Aim to alert on congestion due to flow control areas or weather if certain thresholds are exceeded  Prescribe solution \(if certain thresholds are exceeded Propose alternate flight paths  Use pre-built predictive model  SPSS Modeler performs data processing Counts relevant records in the database \(pattern discovery Computes traffic volume using statistical models on descriptive pattern Returns prediction with likelihood 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  24 Pulls in the TRACKINFO table of MAIN using SQL Limits the data to database entries which fall inside the AVOI Combines the SOURCE_DATE and SOURCE_TIME to a timestamp that can be understood by modeler Computes which time interval the database entry falls in. The time interval is 15 minutes Defines the target and input fields needed for creating the model Handles the creation of the model Produces a graph based off of the model results Final prediction 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Cognos BI Applications IBM Cognos Report Studio  Web application for creating reports  Can be tailored by date range, aircraft id, departure/arrival airport etc  Reports are available with links to visuals IBM Framework Manager  Used to create the data package  Meta-data modeling tool  Users can define data sources, and relationships among them Models can be exported to a package for use with Report Studio 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 1 of 3 Report shows the departure date, departure and arrival locations and hyperlinks to Google Map images DeparturePosition and ArrivalPosition are calculated data items formatted for use with Google Maps Map hyperlinks are also calculated based on the type of fix 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 2 of 3 DeparturePosition, Departure Map, ArrivalPosition and Arrival Map are calculated data items \(see departure items below DepartureLatitude DepartureLongitude DeparturePosition Departure Map 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 3 of 3 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Conclusion and Next Steps Current archive is 50 billion records and growing  Approximately 34 million elements per day  1GB/day Sheer volume of raw surveillance data makes analytics process very difficult The raw data runs through a series of processes before it can be used for analytics Next Steps  Continue application of predictive and prescriptive analytics  Big data visualization 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Questions and Comments Paul Comitz Boeing Research & Technology Chantilly, VA, 20151 office Paul.Comitz@boeing.com 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  31 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


