Usage of Association rules and Classification Techniques in Knowledge Extraction of Diabetes S.M.Nuwangi, C. R. Oruthotaarachchi, J.M.P.P. Tilakaratna & H. A. Caldera University of Colombo School of Computing No 35, Reid Avenue, Colombo 07, Sri Lanka madukanuwangi1@yahoo.com,cro@ucsc.cmb.cmb.lk,ppt@ucsc.cmb.cmb.lk,hac@ucsc.cmb.cmb lk Abstract This research paper uses association rules and classification techniques to extract undiscovered information of diabetes. Previous phase of this research included the preliminary results of some undiscovered decision factors and side effects of diabetes, by considering diabetes type 1 and type 2 patients data set Advanced and reliable data mining techniques are used throughout this research to the discovery of unseen and useful information. This phase of the research describes the application of classification techniques to evaluate the results generated from the association rules. Some interesting information of diabetes was identified at the end of this research, which proved the results generated in phase 1, from the data mining domain Keywords- Association, Classification, Data Mining Decision Tree, Diabetes I. INTRODUCTION This research is about discovering unseen, but important decision factors and effects of diabetes using a dataset of 10,000 diabetes patients records which was gathered from General Hospital diabetes clinic, Sri Lanka. General Hospital is the main National hospital in Sri Lanka, but due to the sensitive nature of the database, it cannot be made public Data mining techniques are used to identify how different risk factors contribute towards diabetes and how diabetes contributes to other diseases More advanced and reliable data mining techniques were used for the information discovery process. . The results obtained from the analysis help the physicians to treat the patients with more meaningful and resulting way The main research questions addressing through the entire research are What are the undiscovered decision factors of diabetes? and what could be the effects of diabetes. Preliminary results were generated for the above mentioned questions in phase 1 of this research. At the end 


of phase 1 it was identified that gender female is identified as a major decision factor of high FBS \(Fasting Blood Sugar level. Furthermore wheezes and edema were identified as unknown side effects of diabetes. All there results were generated through association rules generation data mining technique During this phase of the research, those obtained results were further evaluated using classification data mining technique. Under the classification, decision tree analysis was used to obtain the final results Some of the risk factors may not contribute for diabetes when they are taken alone but may affect when they are combined with the other factors in the human body. So, we identified the factors and how they work in relation with each other which leads to diabetes The main objectives of the research are Analyze the decision factors and effects of diabetes generated from phase 1 Perform decision tree analysis for each of these results Evaluate the validity of the results through decision tree analysis Provide the finally concluded information to domain experts in order to verify the results through medical experiments There can be some attributes of human beings which are considered as unimportant to cause diabetes but those may effect to originating the diabetes. As example, general belief is that gender is not causing diabetes [1] but there can be an effect from gender also which is hidden from the knowledge of the doctors. Other than that diabetes may lead to other diseases such as wheezes which are unknown by the doctors If the doctors are aware of those, the necessary actions can be taken to reduce the probability of diabetes patients getting other diseases Gained knowledge out of the research has to be proven from the domain experts, so first the results will be given to selected number of doctors to test the validity of them This research study is a conducted in two phases as phase1, which includes association rule generation and phase2, use of classification techniques. This paper is based on the results of the second phase of research and it describes 


application of classification techniques to prove the association rules generated under the first phase of the research The remainder of this paper is organized as follows Section II describes the literature of the research, followed by Section III which includes research methodology of the data design and data mining process. Section IV is about the results generated by the research. Section V is the discussion which contains problems faced and the key contributions 372 from the research.  Final part of the paper brings it to a conclusion by discussing the findings of our research II. LITERATURE REVIEW Literature review includes the previous finding about the diabetes risk factors, relationship between diabetes and edema, relationship between diabetes and female patients association rule generation techniques, classification techniques and use of decision trees The influence of non-ophthalmic parameters as risk factors of clinically significant macular edema is a research which is done by A. Sanchez, G. Ramirez, M. Gomezi and R. Vaca [2]. Through the research they have identified that over half of our CSME \(Clinically Significant Macular Edema 56.3 treatment with insulin against 15.6% of diabetes type 2 in treatment with oral anti-diabetes. Also a relationship was identified between the ages in which diabetes was diagnosed This research shows that currently in the medical field, a relationship between macular edema and diabetes has identified T. F. Blanco, R. Moreno, F. Novellae, S. Cano and H Lopezfm have done a research [3] to determine the incidence of Cystoids Macular Edema \(CME coherence tomography \(OCT between diabetic and non-diabetic groups of patients According to the results, it shows that increased macular thickness in both groups of patients in a small percentage of cases, and significantly increased macular thickness in diabetic patients. This result also helps to show the relationship between macular edema and diabetes According to the literature there is no any relationship between the BMI level and the gender of a person [4]. Men 


and women do not show a significant difference in BMI levels of their bodies. Literature states that there is a relationship between FBS level and gender [5], [6 According to them there is relationship between FBS level and the gender female. But they state that there is no any relationship among gender male and FBS level A relationship between the FBS level and the educational level of a person has shown in the literature [5], [7 According to them when the education level increases the FBS level goes down in the people. But for this fact the researchers say that there is a relationship of the gender too Male did not show a link between education level and gender but woman showed. But literature does not provide any evidences for the relationship among increase in the FBS level and the systolic BP or diastolic BP The research [8] conducted by F.Gurgen and N. Gurgen uses the classification techniques in an effective manner to identify the major risk factors of diabetes. A database consists of a total of 16 features collected from 44 diabetic patients has been used to the research. This research supports theories of stroke in diabetes mellitus patients and also concludes that the use of intelligent data analysis improves personalized preventive intervention The research Appropriate medical data categorization for data mining classification techniques conducted by S Liao and I. Lee [9] addresses some data mining methods which require normalized data, others rely on categorized data, and some can accommodate multiple data scales. The purpose of the study was to find the data format appropriate for each data mining classification technique for wider applications, and efficiently to obtain trustworthy results. In this study, three mathematical data categorization methods were applied to accommodate five data mining classification using a heart disease database with four types of data. This research indicates that classification techniques are acceptable to use in the researches and it provides ability to analyze the categorical data in an effective manner The above mentioned research used Discretization process which convert the quantitative data to qualitative categorical techniques to the data set easily G. Rogers and E. Joyner have performed a research [10 


in identifying how the SAS software data mining technology can be utilized as a solution for improving the quality of care as well as help control spiraling costs in the health care industry. The research has used tree-based models, which include classification and regression trees, which are the most common implementation of induction modeling. They have said that tree-based models are effective data mining tools, which have their own unique strengths. Those models have advantages over linear models by being able to detect nonlinear relationships automatically. Also they indicate that tree-based models are good at selecting important variables and therefore work well when many of the predictors are irrelevant III. METHODOLOGY This section describes the methodology which is used for the data analysis in brief Databases of 10,000 diabetes patients records were gathered from General Hospital diabetes clinic Sri Lanka There were more than 30 various attributes in that database Out of all those attributes, selected attributes for the flat table were; age, gender, diabetes type, education, occupation monthly income, FBS \(Fasting Blood Sugar Body Mass Index level, Diastolic blood pressure, Systolic blood pressure Edema, and Wheezes After the flat table preparation, diabetes patients data table was available with more than 10,000 records. To remove the missing values in this created flat table appropriate missing data handling mechanisms were carried out and a table with no missing values could be created Next performed activity was the domain analysis. Before start analyzing the data with data mining techniques, domain analysis was used to gain an initial knowledge about the overall project domain. Filtering process was used to do the domain analysis.  Advanced techniques needed to be used for further analysis to identify the validity of the assumptions made during the domain analysis. So, in the first phase of this research, association rules were used and in this phase classification is used 373 But, before applying data mining techniques the data should be descritized into nominal attributes. Because, data 


mining techniques require having only nominal attributes in the data set All the attributes except gender, diabetes type, edema and wheezes were discretized to change the numeric attribute values in to nominal attribute values. Some mismatching values which were still there in the flat table were handled using WEKA and a completed flat table was generated with 3265 records IV. RESULTS OF THE RESEARCH A. Association rules generation Using the Association rules generating feature of WEKA 10 rules, 50 rules, 100 rules, 500 rules and 1000 rules were generated in different times. After the analysis of the finally generated 1000 rules, three of the best rules that affects towards diabetes were selected considering the attribute combinations, confidence level, etc. Detailed descriptions of those selected rules are included in the phase 1 research paper B. Decision tree generation After generating the association rules, to further improve the reliability of the results and to identify more hidden knowledge behind the data set, classification approach is used. Here it describes the findings by the classification technique in detail 1 This decision tree was generated based on the first association rule which is shown below age=57_75 gender=F diabetesType=Type 2 cholesterol=<5.17 wheezes=Yes ==> edema=Yes conf:\(0.95 In this rule conf: refers to the confidence of the rule Confidence defines that 95% of the patients with age range=57_75, gender=F, diabetes type=type 2, cholesterol level=<5.17 and wheezes=yes having edema This has discovered a relationship between diabetes type 2 and edema. That rule consist of six attributes; age, gender diabetes type, cholesterol level, wheezes and edema. Using those attributes, a decision tree was generated Edema was selected as the decision attribute. As shown in figure 1, wheezes came for the root node of the tree According to the tree, wheezes became the most important attribute out of all the attributes in the rule, where from 2710 


type 2 diabetic patients who are having wheezes, 2545 patients are suffering from edema. Only 368 type 2 diabetic patients do not have wheezes. And out of those 368 patients 235 suffering from edema The next association rule has discovered a relationship between diabetes type 1 and edema and that rule was almost similar to the rule generated for diabetes type 2 age=57_75 gender=F diabetesType=Type1 cholesterol=<5.17 wheezes=Yes ==> edema=Yes conf:\(0.97 Similarly to figure 1, edema was selected as the decision attribute for figure 2 and wheezes came for the root node Here also wheezes became the most important attribute where from 157 type 1 diabetic patients who are having wheezes, 150 patients are suffering from edema. Only 23 type 1 diabetic patients do not have wheezes. And out of those 23 patients 17 suffering from edema Based on the association rule, it was found that there is a relationship between both diabetes types and edema According to the decision tree explanation it can be clearly stated that, the probability of occurring edema for both diabetic type patients will increase if they have wheezes From both decision trees generated for edema and diabetes type 1, 2; it can be concluded that wheezes will more affect toward occurring edema for both diabetic types than the other attributes in those rules; age, gender and cholesterol But those attributes together also will contribute some extent to strengthen the probability of occurring edema for the diabetic patients Currently in the medical field, there is no relationship has found between wheezes and edema of the diabetic patients But through the association rules and generated decision trees it can be concluded that; there is a clear relationship exist between edema and both diabetes types and also there is a relationship exist between the people who are having diabetes and wheezes  in creating edema 2 Gender=F occupation=Housewife Sodium Level=135145 diastolic=60-80 cholesterol<5.17 edema=Yes diabetesType=Type 2 ==> wheezes=Yes conf:\(0.92 Second association rule for diabetes type 2 which is shown above has discovered a relationship between diabetes type 2 


and wheezes. That rule consist of eight attributes; gender occupation, diabetes type, cholesterol level, sodium level diastolic blood pressure, edema and wheezes. Using those attributes, a decision tree was generated which is shown in figure 3 Wheezes was selected as the decision attribute for this tree. As shown in figure 3, the association rule can be easily proven by the use of this decision tree. In the tree the highest numbers of records are shown under the attributes values which were given by the association rule. That node contains 1218 records from the whole data set and that is the highest number of values in the whole decision tree By this decision tree the association rule can be proved Figure 1. Decision tree for diabetes type 2 and edema 374 and that increases the validity of the rule which shows that people who have diabetes type 2, who are female housewives, having normal range of sodium level and diastolic blood pressure and who has edema and has low cholesterol level are having a higher probability of getting Wheezes Gender=F occupation=Housewife Sodium Level=135145 diastolic=60-80 cholesterol <5.17 edema = Yes diabetesType=Type 1 ==> wheezes=Yes conf :\( 0.95 Second association rule selected for diabetes type 1 discovered a relationship between diabetes type 1 and wheezes and that rule was almost similar to the rule generated for diabetes type 2 The decision tree in figure 4 was generated by using the attributes in the association rule and from that the rule can be proved. Here wheezes was selected as the decision attribute for this tree. The edema has the highest number of records than all the other nodes So, another important thing that can be identified by this tree is; the people who have diabetes and edema have the highest probability for originating wheezes than people who havent edema. Edema has a contribution towards wheezes than other attributes.  So, it can be concluded that there is a higher relationship between edema and wheezes 3 and FBS level After generating decision trees with different attribute 


combinations, one was selected as the optimal decision tree which contains the best attribute combination. When analyzing this decision tree there was a branch which has the attribute combination as BMI= 18.5-24.9, Occupation=Housewife, Gender Female, Systolic blood pressure= 90- 120, Diastolic blood pressure= 60-80 There were 600 records in the selected dataset which belong to the patients who are housewives having BMI range of 18.5-24.9, systolic blood pressure between 90- 120 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure between 60-80 mmHg. Out of those patients there were 494 patients whose FBS level was above 125 mg/dl. It was out of the 1947 patients who have more than 125 mg/dl FBS level This attribute combination was selected as the best combination among all the combinations in this tree because it was the attribute combination which the highest number of patients had and among them about 83% had more than 125 mg/dl FBS level Because of these reasons it can be proved that the people who are the housewives having BMI range of 18.5-24.9 systolic blood pressure between 90- 120 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure between 60-80 mmHg have  highest risk of having more than 125 FBS level. But these BMI range Systolic BP range and Diastolic BP range are the normal levels which should be there in the human body When analyzing much more about this the best rule generated by the decision tree, with the patients dataset, it was identified that 93.82% of those patients were in the range of 39  75 years. Therefore the age which has most possibility of having more than 125 FBS level can be proved as more than 39 years Also in the dataset 85.90% of the patients with this attribute combination had wheezes. Patients with above attributes and age range of 39-75 years, 76.72% had wheezes. As mentioned in earlier sections, as well as results generated by the association rules also prove this situation that there is a link between wheezes and increased FBS level Also among the patients with above attribute collection there were 95.87% patients with primary or secondary education level. Therefore it can be said that, when the education level is low of a person it affects his FBS level in 


blood. The reason for that can be not having enough knowledge about the necessary life style needed to control the sugar level The best finding is that there patients with attribute combination generated by decision tree were 100% females The decision tree generated to further analyze the relationship between gender and FBS level is shown in figure 5 When considering the decision trees generated to analyze the probability of gender in different attribute combinations, in most of the times WEKA did not even generated the tree. The reason is that, when designing the tree, WEKA selects the best attributes to split the data records at the top of the decision tree to get the possibilities Figure 2. Decision tree for diabetes type 1 and edema Figure 3. Decision tree for diabetes type 1 and wheezes 375 of the particular attribute. When considering attribute Gender, female has the highest possibility than male Therefore there is no reason to do the splitting any more Association rules that generated regarding the gender and both diabetes types also proved that when the other attributes are in normal levels gender becomes the major attribute of increasing the possibility of having Diabetes The overall conclusion which can be obtained through this is, the patients who are female housewives having wheezes, BMI range of 18.5-24.9, systolic blood pressure between 90- 120 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure between 60-80 mmHg has the most possibility of more than 125 mg/dl in the FBS level. Because the BMI range, Systolic BP range and Diastolic BP range are in the normal levels; the gender of female, aged between 39-75 years, education level only having primary or secondary education and having wheezes become the major decision factors of high FBS level V. DISCUSSION Following section is about the problems encountered and issues faced when doing the project and key contributions of the research towards the diabetes field and research community A. Problems Faced When considering the phase 2 of the research there were 


several problems with the WEKA software, when generating the decision tree. The content of the window which displays the generated decision tree cannot be zoomed out/in according to the requirement of the user. Therefore it was difficult to view and analyze the generated decision trees with all its' branches according to the needs. Also the generated decision tree could not copy to another application. Therefore generating an image of a large decision trees were impossible B. Key contributions of the research One of the key contributions of this research is to identify hidden risk factors of Diabetes. The other key contribution is to identify whether there is any possibility to increase the Diabetes risk level when different combinations of risk factors are taken together The value of these key contributions can be described focusing different end users such as physicians and the people who have or who do not have Diabetes. For example after experimentally proving the results of this research, the doctors will be able to exactly say how much of possibility a person has to get Diabetes and other diseases which occur as side effects of Diabetes. Other than that the patient will be able to get a brief idea of whether he would get Diabetes in the future or whether he already has Diabetes in his body without his knowledge VI. CONCLUSION This paper discussed the utilization of classification techniques and association rules generation to identify the undiscovered decision factors of diabetes and the effects of diabetes Phase 1 of this research included the preliminary findings of the generation and analysis of the association rules. After the association rules generation, to further improve the reliability of the results, classification approach was used This paper covered the phase 2 of the research which covers the application of classification techniques. The conclusions which can be made through phase 1 and phase 2 are stated below A relationship between edema and diabetes has been identified from the association rules generation. The results obtained from the decision tree analysis also clearly state that, the probability of occurring edema for both diabetic 


type patients will increase if they have wheezes. From the decision trees generated for edema and both diabetes types it can be concluded that, wheezes will more affect towards developing edema for both diabetic types than the other attributes A strong relationship between wheezes and diabetes also identified with association rules. Currently in the medical field, no relationship is identified between wheezes and diabetes. The decision tree analysis regarding this aspect discovered that the diabetic patients who are suffering from edema have the highest probability for developing wheezes than the people who havent edema. Edema has a contribution towards wheezes than other attributes.  So, it can be concluded that there is a higher relationship between edema and wheezes In the previous phase of this research, a high risk for women towards diabetes was identified than men. Another conclusion obtained was, when the BMI range, systolic BP Blood Pressure normal levels, females with only primary or secondary Figure 5.    Decision tree for diabetes type 2 and gender.Figure 4. Decision tree for diabetes type 2 and wheezes 376 education aged between 39-75 years, and having wheezes will have a high risk towards developing high FBS levels All the above discovered relationships are true for both Diabetes type 1 and type 2. But Diabetes type 1 has a stronger relationship with all those factors than type 2 Currently in the medical field, none of the above discovered information was proved except the relationship between diabetes and edema. Since a strong relationship between diabetes and edema was identified through the data mining techniques, other rules also have a higher possibility of proven by the real world experiments All the conclusions of the entire research were generated through data mining process and evaluated through the related literature and the domain experts knowledge. But they must be   validated through real life applications and medical experiments. That is the major future work to be done for this research ACKNOWLEDGMENT Our sincere gratitude goes to Dr. H. A. Caldera, the 


supervisor of this project for the guidance provided throughout the research project Our special thanks go to General Hospital, Sri Lanka for providing a diabetic patients data set which contains more than 10,000 records. Sincere thank for the domain experts who helped us in providing necessary guidance and clarifying issues related to the Diabetes Finally, our gratitude goes to all the lecturers of University of Colombo School of Computing Sri Lanka for the given help regarding this research REFERENCES 1] A M. Kanaya, D Grady,E B-Connor,Explaining the Sex Difference in Coronary Heart Disease Mortality Among Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus, Vol.162, 2002, pp.1737-1745 2] A Sanchez, G Ramirez, M Gomezi , R Vaca, Clinically Significant Diabetic macular Edema: Systematic Risk Factors, Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol, 2008, pp. 173-176 3] T F Blanco, R Moreno, F Novellae, S Cano, H Lopezfm Pseudophakic Cystoids Macular Edema. Assessment with optical coherence tomography, Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol , 2006, pp.147-154 4] Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal, Health education in the management of diabetes at the primary health care level: is there a gender difference, [Online]. Available http://www.emro.who.int/publications/emhj/0801/healthEdu.htm 5] International Journal of Cardiology,  Association of gender and education with blood lipids and fasting glucose levels in a sample of Iranian obese adults, Aug. 2007. [Online]. Avilable http://www.internationaljournalofcardiology.com/article/PIIS0167527 306010576 6] PubMed Centre, Jornal f Korean Medical Centr,e Prevalence of the Metabolic Syndrome and Its Association with Cardiovascular Diseases in Korea [Online]. Available http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2822298 7] International Journal of Diabetes and Metabolism, The impact of previous diabetes education level on the control of cardiovascular risk factors in type 2 diabetic patients [Online]. Available http://ijod.uaeu.ac.ae/iss_1401/g.pdf 8] Sunday Observer,Security News | Sundayobserver.lk - Sri Lanka Nov. 2009. [Online] Available http://www.sundayobserver.lk/2009/11/15/imp01.asp 9] A: E. Papageorgiou, I. Kotsioni, A. Linos, Data Mining: A New Technique In Medical Research, 4th ed. Vol.4, 2005, pp.189-191 


10] G Rogers, E Joyner, Mining your data for Health care Quality improvement, SAS User Group International Conference, 1997 March, pp. 582- 592 377 


13] S. Guillaume and L. Nemmiche Alachaher, Visualisation des zones dattraction entre les variables, 15me RFIA Tours, France, 2006 40 


Proceedings of Supercomputing 96, Pittsburg, PA, pp. 17-22 November 1996 9] Ceglar and J. Roddick, Association Mining, ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 1-42, July 2006 10] Y. Ye and C.-C. Chiang, A parallel apriori algorithm for frequent itemsets mining, Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Software Engineering Research, Management, and Applications SERA 06 11] J. JaJa, An Introduction to Parallel Algorithms, Upper Saddle River NJ: Addison Wesley, 1996  214 


12] Dhond, Gupta, A., Vadhavkar, S. Data mining techniques for optimizing inventories for electronic commerce[C]. In the Proceeding of the ACM-SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2005:480-486 13]Chui-Yu Chiu , Yi-Feng Chen. An intelligent market segmentation system using k-means and particle swarm optimization[J]. Expert Systems with Applications, 2009, 36: 45584565 14]Tzung-Shi Chen , Shih-Chun Hsu. Mining frequent tree-like patterns in large datasets[J]. Data & Knowledge Engineering, 2007,62:6583 15]H. Tsukimoto, Extracting rules from trained neural networks[J]. IEEE Trans.Neural Networks, 2000, 11 \(2 156 


http://datamining.buaa.edu.cn/TopKCos.pdf 14] M. Zaki, Scalable algorithms for association mining, TKDE, vol. 12, pp. 372390, 2000 


enhance item-based collaborative filtering, in 2nd IASTED International Conference on Information and Knowledge Sharing, Scottsdale, Arizona, 2003 476 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


Basi Association Rles Basi c  Association R u les Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of events Ol dib t f ilt t O n l y d escr ib e se t s o f s i mu lt aneous even t s Cannot describe patterns that iterate over time e g  itemset a  0  b  0  g    Eg If you sense higher data rates on the downlink than normal AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 20 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


