978-1-4244-1882-4/08/$25.00 \251 2008  IEEE PROC. 26th INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON MICROELECTRONICS \(MIEL 2008\Y, 2008 Reliable Transport of Data in Wireless Sensor Network M. Kosanovi M. Stoj ev  Abstract  Reliable transport of data in Wireless Sensor Networks WSN has become a big challenging issue for researcher community in the last few years. WSNs are currently deployed in a wide range of applic ations as a sensor is becoming smaller and production cost is smaller In this paper, we look at the problem of efficient and reliable data transport in WSN We propose a suitable solution for information delivery in both dire ctions, in upstream \(from sensor 
 node to sensor node Our propos al ensures a reliable data transport in both directions with  reduced traffic between sensor nodes and sink I I NTRODUCTION  Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs are large networks composed of small sensor nodes SNs with limited computer resources capable for gathering data processing and communicating WSNs a r e c o st  effective  and distributed solutions implemented in various environments where conventional networks are impractical Unlike traditional wired networks, the reliability of data transfer in WSNs is not a critical parameter. Namely, for most WSNs 
monitoring environment object tracking etc some occasional amount of data losses is acceptable However as WSNs become ubiquitously deployed such as multimedia and process control WSNs reliable data transfer RDT is required In this kind of applications every byte of the data packet has to be, reliable delivered to the destination. In general, in such networks more data are transferring. This implies that more conflict in traffic, more congestion in accesses and mo re packet retransmissions among SNs are needed As a result the SN`s power consumption increases while its life period becomes shorter Having in mind that the TCP/IP protocol suite becomes de-facto worldwide standard in network 
connectivity, it is quite reasonable to look at some efficient methods for reliable data transfer in WSNs based on the TCP/IP concept This problem is in focus of our interest The main idea is based on grouping SNs into small entities called clusters All SNs are dynamically addressable and controlled by the master node MN Dynamic multiaddressing capability allows us to decrease both the frame length and traffic intensity and increase data transfer reliability Mirko R Kosanovi  is with the High Technical School  E-mail: vkosanovic@sbb.co.yu Mile K. Stoj ev is with the Faculty of Electronic Engineering 
 E-mail: stojcev@elfak.ni.ac.yu II. S PECIFICATIONS OF R ELIABLE D ATA T RANSFER IN WSN S The main factors that affect the RDT in WSNs are the following 1 Initial connecting process  WSNs are of reactive type SNs passively monitor the environment and wait for events occurring before reporting to the MN. It is therefore necessary to make a efficient connecting process in order to inform the MN about of SN`s status \(level of power consumption, level reliability of gathered data transmitter rate and 
addresses of sensor nodes According to the status of parameters, the MS selects an optimal trace route  2 Congestion control mechanism  following congestion activities detection avoidance and correction 3 Rate of reliable data transfer  to receive data packets co rrectly from a certain area only, but not from every SNs in this area. So, the ratio of successful in respect to a to tal SN`s data transfer is defined 4 Reduced number of retransmissions   the transport protocol should implement a mechanism for packets loss recovery such as NACK ACK selective ACK or 
selective NACK Concerning mechanisms designed for reducing the number of retransmissions it is better to use NACK instead of ACK message in hop-by-hop HBH, networks, such as WSNs [3   5 Reduced length of frame header  TCP/IP based networks the ratio between the payload and header length is small.So, during a design of WSN`s protocol the primary goal is to reduce the header length 6 Equal treatment of sensor nodes  traffic it is desirable for all SNs in WSNs to participate equally. Therefore, the balanced energy consumption for all SNs is imperative to achieve 
7 Cross layer optimization  two neighboring protocol layers have to be short and efficient. For example, if th e routing protocol signals to the transport protocol that so me route failure occur, the transport protocol knows that the packet is loosed because of route failure and therefore freezes the sender status III R ELATED W ORK Standard transport layer protocols such as TCP and UDP are not suitable for severely resource constrained 


WSNs 4   N u m e r o u s  r e l i a b l e  d a t a  t r a n s p o r t  p r o t o c o l s  f o r  WSNs with limited number of resources are developed see fig.1 3   I n  g e n e r a l   m o s t  o f  t h e  p r o p o s a l s a r e   protocols given on the right part of Fig.1 are intended to solve the problems related to congestion control and/or reliable data transfer in  upstream and downstream directions. WSN`s transport protocols that pool congestion control and reliable bidirectional data transfer are in focus of interest in the last decade 3   A n  e f f i c i e n t  r e l i a b l e  d a t a  transfer protocol is described in this paper. In order to put more light to the considered problematic we will give now a short review of the most popular reliable data transport protocols implemented in WSNs Transport protocols for wireless sensor network TCP oriented Aplication oriented  Upstream Downstream ESRT  RBC STCP RCRT PORT STCP CODA CCF PCCP ARC Fusion Siphon Trickle PSFQ GARUDA Deluge ART TRTP DTC  lwIP IP nanoUDP nanoTCP Fig. 1. Current transport protocols in WSNs PSFQ  Pump Slowly, Fetch Quickly      SNs downstream The main idea is to send packets from   re the next frame arrives    messages   semantics GARUDA is designed to be operational in networks composed of SNs located at fixed locations It   FP Wait-for First-Packet before transmitting the first packet This pulse is almost immune to channel loss and either idle SNs or sensors  acket can hear it Pulse characteristics are different from data packets with make possible to receive it, and the data packet at the same time without interference problems [6     This is an event-based protocol that does not need to offer    poses a scheme for event   opposite direction, it guaranties reliable messages reception from a subgroup of SNs th at cover the entire area of interest, but not all located SNs in that area [7     Reliable Multi-Segment Transport  of this protocol is to achieve reliable data transport from  multicast diffusion routing protocol Directed diffusion  If the pa cket does not a   The protocol is suitable for receiving continuous data streams but not for event based streams ESRT  Event to Sink Reliable Transport         use node IDs but event IDs ESRT supports congestion   specified bit into a packet, and   IV A RCHITECTURAL ODEL Note that limited hardware and software resources   When we start to develop a reliable SN`s data transport protocol the first thing what we have in mind is that it  has to be energy-aware and simple. Further we assume that this protocol has to be bidirectional and to guarantee reliable data transport both in upstream and    that, to each SN, during the  within the WSN is assigned. The idea of our proposal is to   numbering field in a header. In this manner, we reduce the   transfer process a multi-addr ess assignment to each SN   frame numbering of a single message The address  Internet point of view the master acts as a DHCP server  assigns addresses to SNs within the WSN. To each SN 2 n  0 n  8 addresses can be assigned The number of  


temperature sensor generates small amount multimedia system  large amount traffic direction upstream or downstream\, and traffic cong estion \(more congestions less number of addresses and vice versa In downstream the MN all address assigns to SNs In upstream a single address to each SN is assigned In this case, the rest of the addresses are assigned to the MN This is reason why we have one or two bytes less in the header i.e it is not necessary to send a frame sequence number All frames behave now as a single message and are sending independently The assigned multi-address determines the number of frames/messages that this SN can receive in one block The sender node divides the message into several data blocks Each block consists of identical number of frames/messages This implies that message arrival ordering, within a block, can be arbitrary, i.e., all messages in one block have a unique address. This allows us to use any of the well-known WSN`s routing protocols [11    Figure.1 shows a scenario which corresponds to the delivering of a single message to the multi-addressed SN four addresses The total message is divided into two blocks. Each block consists of four frames/messages with a different destination address When the destination SN receives all frames of one block, it sends the ACK message in order to inform all nodes in a multi-hop route that the message has been received without error After that the sending procedure can be repeated. If some of a message is corrupted a NACK message is returned among neighborhood SNs. A manipulation with NACK messages is similar as in PSFQ T h is means that the propagation of the corrupted data is limited between two intermediate SNs, only, and consequently the amount of retransmissions is decreased  Source 2 1 3 Destination ACK ACK ACK ACK ACK ACK ACK ACK NACK 3 NACK 6 2   1 5  1 1 5 1   1 5  1 1 5  1 2 6  2 2 6  2 2 6  2 2 6  2 3 7  3 3 7  3 7  3 7  3 3 3 6 2   3 4 8  4 4 8  4 4 8  4 4 8  4 Fig. 2. Transport sequence of frames among SNs in WSN V P ROTOCOL D ESIGN  Three different types of messages in the proposed protocol are involved initial,data,and control  A Initial messages Two types of initial messages IM1 and IM2 in term of data transfer direction we distinguish  \(see Fig.3 Type Message content Direction IM1 MT DA SA INF TR RE ECS Upstream IM2 MT DA SA DA1 DA2 INF ECS Downstr DM MT DA SA INF ECS   Up/Down CM1 MT DAn SA ECS    Up/Down CM2 MT DA SAn ECS    Up/Down CM3 MT DA1 DA2 SA ECS   Downstr Fig. 3. Format of messages   rmation field variable     correction sum The fields  MT DA SA TR RE DA1 DA2, and ECS are of single byte length B.  Data messages Data message DM is identical for both upstream and downstream \(see Fig.3 C.  Control messages Its task is to provide a mechanism for reliable data transfer among SNs We use two types of control messages a positive-acknowledge, ACK, and a negative-acknowledge NACK The NACK control message CM1 see Fig.3  is used for HBH among intermediated nodes while ACK is intended for end-to-end i.e source destination loss detection and recovery ACK and NACK messages guaranty reliable data transfer. Two types of ACK control messages exist  confirms correct reception b\ CM3 - MN sends address range to the SNs The content of MT field is the following a TD\(traffic direction  a single-bit subfield TD=0 upstream, TD=1 downstream b\ TM i  it denotes the type of control messages There are possibility for eight different type of messages c EA i  subfield, used for extending SNs address range. It defines the number of hopes between the MN and the addressed sensor For example it is possible to configure 256 different addresses in WSN with 16 hops 512 different addresses with 8 hops, or 1024 with 4 VI P ERFORMANCE A NALYSIS  The crucial idea of our a pproach is to decrease the header length Namely our frames do not specify a  a unique destination address In order to evaluate the performance of the proposal we will consider its 


coefficient of efficiency b  b  is defined as a ratio of Ss Sn and S n  Sn Sn Ss b        one Ss=\(d h d b + \(d h d b * n d h d b * n  Sn= \(d h d  h d  d h d    d h d  h d  d h d     h   header  payload  h d  n i    b we obtain b dh b dh b dh Sn Sn Ss b b d bd d b  b d d db b   a condition b  0                 d For b            b     b        b   VII                R                                                         


  5 Typically, each engine\222s perfo rmance level is plotted over time to display the trend Power assurance checks 227While in flight, the aircrew need to ascertain the engines\222 performance levels before conducting missions requiring high performance Synopsis Many of these data elements are required by military specifications and handbooks resulting from years of lessons learned to prevent future mishaps.  As technology advances large amounts of data can be reported at extremely high rates plus stored for playback.  Human engineering now becomes important so as not to display an overwhelming amount of data to the aircrew and maintainers.  Some data elem ents need to be presented on the aircraft while others are processed and displayed on the ground station.  Interpretation of all this health and usage data becomes a critical aspect of the on-board aircraft systems and off-board AME architect 4  I NTERPRETING H EALTH AND U SAGE D ATA  Numerous types of health and usage data were presented and discussed in the previous section.  These data elements need to be categorized and displayed to support mission accomplishment by the aircrew, quick repair times by maintainers at all levels of maintenance, and in-depth engineering investigations and analyses by engineers.  Too much information being displayed can overwhelm the aircrew and distract them fro m their mission.  Plus, false alarm indications can flood the system causing poor maintenance practices.   Furthermore, a capability is needed to display and control system operation on-board the aircraft and process and display the aircraft\222s information off-board on a maintenance ground station Diagnostics On-Board Aircraft The Central Integrated Checkout \(CIC\System is a concept where BIT plus all electronic monitoring on the aircraft is coordinated to provide optimized electronic fault detection and fault isolation capability.  The cockpit management system provides the ability to status the operational condition of the aircraft systems and to select and control specialized BIT routines through a series of menus \(or control layers\ed on the multi-function displays Failure and status information are presented to the aircrew and maintainers in the English language.  CIC functions are controlled by the advanced mission computers through the operational flight program Fault management 227Failure and status information are reported by the subsystems to the aircraft mission computer and processed for reporting and recording Cockpit reporting 227Menus are provided on the cockpit displays to view the overall status of aircraft, and the operator can select each subsys tem viewing the status of individual WRAs.  A menu listing the indications by chronological order from present to past is needed to communicate problems to the squadron during the mission and troubleshooting after the mission.  During flight, failure and status messages are displayed as WCA indications which have emergency procedur es associated with them To assist the aircrew with mission accomplishment, failures should be identified as mi ssion critical or non-critical  Fault recording 227All the data elements discussed in section three are recorded onto a removable media and taken into maintenance control for processing on the ground station A reset function is necessary to clear the data from previous ground operations and flights BIT test control 227Menus are provided on the cockpit displays to identify the status of the equipment and to command IBIT on the equipment.  Results from IBIT are returned and displayed to the operator.  BIT tests that would interfere with safe flight will be disabled Maintenance Ground Station After the diagnostics data from the aircraft has been processed by the ground station, these data elements need to be categorized and displayed to support fleet operations Reports, graphs, and trending tools are necessary functions in order to organize these data elements into a user-friendly manner for accurate interpreta tion.  As described in reference C A M E O provi des a com p rehensi v e t ool set  for maintaining the V-22 Osprey. It is a joint-service product being fielded for Navy, Marine, and Air Force operational units. If other services or agencies, such as the Army or Coast Guard, become interested in utilizing its common capabilities, the system can be easily adapted to these other services needs.  Figure 2 shows the CAMEO architecture and the capabilities it provides.  A more detailed discussion of these capabilities and others are provided in the following subparagraphs Reports 227Separating the AME data into unique reports will help the operators interpret the indications easier Exporting these data in a format compatible with Microsoft Office products and databa ses will assist reporting requirements and engineering analyses 1  Separate reports for WCA failure, servicing, and exceedance indications need to be provided.  In addition these indications must be displayed showing when they set during the mission timeline 2  Highlight known false alarms in a manner easily viewable from true failure indications 


  6  Fi g ure 2 226 CAMEO Architecture 


  7 3 Separate engineering data from standard maintenance reports.  Display detailed subsystem reports that identify the failed function along with mode changes and aircraft dynamics 4 List software a nd hardware configurations on-board the aircraft Work orders 227Detailed fault data from the WRA should be annotated to assist all maintenance levels with repairing the equipment.  CAMEO provides a direct link from the failure indication to the IETM troubleshooting procedures Graphs 227Performance levels of engines and dynamic components will need to be displayed as trend lines over time.  Color coding using operational risk management criterion should be implemented showing green for normal operation, yellow for approaching maximum limits, and red for exceeding limits Playback 227Display the subsystem and components on a menu and show its operation and fa ilure indications to assist with troubleshooting and diagnosis of failure symptoms For complicated fuel systems these data need to be recorded periodically for pl ayback on the maintenance ground station in order to properly troubleshoot the system Consumption trending 227A menu should be provided that displays the oil levels on the squadron's aircraft for the past 10 flights including engines and gearboxes.  Furthermore oil consumption trending should be automated using the values recorded from the oil level sensors onboard aircraft Maximum consumption values must be identified in IETM BIT trending 227Display number of occurrences that indications set across squadron's aircraft to compare failure indications and identify failure conditions. In addition, list the job order numbers assigned to these indications for analysis in NALCOMIS-OOMA I-Level Smart Test Program Set \(TPS Smart TPS is an information tool that provides analysis of test and maintenance data at I-level maintenance.  Its purpose is to make intelligent recommendations that reduce diagnostic test times and improve fault isolation.  By analyzing aircraft diagnostics data and historical maintenance records, the diagnostic test time can be reduced by selecting the most efficien t entry point that detects the failure.  In addition, a suggested corrective action for the failure mode is also identified.  Smart TPS reduces repair times on-station thereby lowering operational costs.  Figure 3 shows the Smart TPS concept Maintenance Database MU Aircraft BIT Data MAF Generate O-Level Maintenance Action Form Pull Box O Level Entry Points Entry Point Confidence Occurrences 1                       80 %                      160 2                       10 %                        20 3                       10 %                        20 MAF I Level Generate I-Level Maintenance Action Form Callouts Callout Action Confidence Occurrences A01         R              80 %                      160 A02         R              10 %                        20 A03         R              10 %                        20 Maintenance Database Maintenance Database MU Aircraft BIT Data MAF Generate O-Level Maintenance Action Form Pull Box O Level Entry Points Entry Point Confidence Occurrences 1                       80 %                      160 2                       10 %                        20 3                       10 %                        20 MAF I Level Generate I-Level Maintenance Action Form Callouts Callout Action Confidence Occurrences A01         R              80 %                      160 A02         R              10 %                        20 A03         R              10 %                        20  Figure 3 \226 Smart TPS Concept To improve O-level aircraft troubleshooting, a future enhancement is to pass Smart TPS results back to AME in order to improve troubleshooting procedures in IETM.  By combining AME and Smart TPS data, the maintainer is guided toward performing the most  likely troubleshooting and repair actions Synopsis Straightforward interpretation of diagnostics information on-board the aircraft and in AM E off-board the aircraft is key to providing exceptional sustainment throughout the life cycle. Numerous data types and large file sizes necessitate sophisticated computer processing along with well planned categorization of the diagnostic s data.  Interfaces between the aircraft and AME at Olevel, I-level, and D-level maintenance becomes complicat ed especially considering the information technologies linking them together.  Finally the failure modes observed need to be aligned with the diagnostics data to guide maintainers to the correct repairs quicker thus improving aircraft readiness and reducing life cycle costs 5  P ERFORMANCE M ETRICS  Finally, qualitative and quantitative performance metrics are established to measure how well the AME is achieving its requirements.  Typically, just three metrics define the entire performance requirements for BIT as discussed in the following paragraphs from  Fault Detection Fault detection or Probability of Correct Detection \(P CD  confirmed hardware failure asso ciated with a recorded BIT indication.  Typically, a threshold of 95 percent and an objective of 99 percent are assigned.  Fault detection is defined as the total number of BIT detected failures divided by the total number of BIT detectable failures then multiplied by 100 to express the quotient as a percent 


  8 Fault Isolation Fault isolation or Probability of Correct Fault Isolation P CFI dication of a detected failure that identifies the correct faulty WRA either directly or through the use of prescribed maintenance procedures.  A threshold of 95 percent and an objective of 99 percent are also assigned Fault isolation is defined as the total number of failures correctly isolated to one WRA divided by the total number of BIT detected failures then multiplied by 100 to express the quotient as a percent Mean Flight Hours Between False Alarms \(MFHBFA MFHBFA is defined as the total number of flight hours divided by the total number of false BIT indications.  A threshold value of 15 hours and an objective value of 20 hours would typically be assigned.  From  false alarms are failure indi cations that indicate a failed WRA, but no hardware failure is confirmed. They also include the following conditions 1  Intermittent indications that are determined to not require maintenance because of a lack of spare replacement units or because of other mission requirements 2  Indications that clear when the fault logs are reset or are re-initialized 3  Indications that cannot be confirmed by organizational maintenance personnel \(cannot duplicate 4  When the suspected faulty WRA is found to perform satisfactorily at higher levels of maintenance \(Retest-OK Rotor Track and Balance Typically, the track and balance requirement would be no more than two adjustment sets for main rotor and tail rotor track to be within limits 95 percent of the time Synopsis Three BIT metrics and a rotor track and balance requirement can not suffici ently define the entire diagnostics and AME performance.  Prime contractors for naval weapon systems will not be able to adequately price the AME architecture identified in this paper unless more thorough requirements are defined.  Therefore, a systems of systems approach is necessary to define the on-board diagnostics data for use by all user groups and how it is processed and displayed off-board in AME 6  C ONCLUSIONS  How each user group makes use of diagnostics data to fulfill their roles and responsibilities was thoroughly discussed.  Engineering, logistics along with aircrew and maintainers need information to support an aircraft weapon system throughout its life cycle.  Standardizing health and usage data across aircraft plat forms allows common tools to process the data for each group's needs eliminating stovepipe systems for each ai rcraft type.  CAMEO was initiated with the intention of being cross-services compatible. Mission need statements and capability development documents should identify the entire AME architecture and functions to meet the life cycle requirements of the weapon system.  Finally, a system of systems engineering approach will need to ensure these requirements are implemented into the hardware and software solutions onboard the aircraft and off-board in the ground station, and verifiable metrics are established  R EFERENCES  1] Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 2005 Aerospace Conference, Paper No. 1086, Transforming A Maintenance Ground Station  2] Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 2004 Aerospace Conference, Paper No. 1438, Root Cause Analysis of BIT False Alarms   Maley, S., Lofberg G and Lasiter M.,\223Overview of the Comprehensive Automated Maintenance Environment Optimized \(CAMEO\System 224, American Helicopter Society 64th  Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29 \226 May 1, 2008  AIR 6.8.4 Indust ry Dat a Exchange W o rki ng Group Outbrief, of 14 Jun 2006 5 Data Defin itio n Fo rm at File For Aircraft Fault & Usage Data Processing, AIR-6.8.4 Industry Data Exchange Working Group, of 14 Jun 2006  and Electronics Engineers 2003 Aerospace Conference, Paper No. 1434, Common Built-InTest Evaluation Criteria  Acknowledgements A special thanks to the diagnostics professionals within PMA-275, Bell-Boeing, Rolls-Royce, and Raytheon who contributed to establishing CAMEO.  Thanks to Dr. Scott Maley, PMA-275 CAMEO development team lead, who contributed valuable perspectives into the collaborative open-source development of CAMEO for this paper.  Kudos also goes to Mr. Jacques Romano \(AIR-4.3.2.6\Mr Jeff Woell \(Coalition Solutions Integrated, Inc.\who developed the "Flight Watcher" program that trends aircraft indications simplifying the maintainers' interpretation and analysis of the entire squadron's status.  A thankful appreciation goes to Mr. Woell who contributed significant views and insights for this paper. PMA-260 is applauded for implementing Smart TPS which helps the maintainer turnaround repairs quicker and reduces life cycle costs 


  9 B IOGRAPHY   Kerry Westervelt is the systems requirements manager on the V-22 Osprey at NAWCAD Patuxent River, Maryland Kerry is assigned to the Systems Engineering competency \(AIR-4.1.1.3 for PEO\(A\AntiSubmarine Warfare, Assault Special Mission Program He has over 16 years experience in the diagnostics field working requirements and test evaluation on the F/A-18D\(RC\ Advanced Tactical Air Reconnaissance System and  the V-22 Osprey.  Kerry has a Bachelor of Science in Engineering Science from Johns Hopkins University   


as mentioned in Section 3 of the followers Sat2  Sat3  Sat4  and Sat5 are Sat3  Sat4  Sat5  and Sat2  respectively For simplicity fuzzy MIN and MAX operators are used as t norm operator  n  and s norm operator  b  respectively in both subsystem component-level and formation-level To Figur e 10  Sat-3 rule activations demonstrate our proposed approach we show the Sat3 rule activation when the above-mentioned friction fault was injected in the Z-axis reaction wheel between t  7500 sec and t  9480 sec Figure 10 shows rule activations in the intermediate node 223 C 4 1  C 3 3 224 mentioned above where 026  C 4 1  C 3 3  and 026  H  represent rule activations corresponding to a faulty and a healthy condition of Sat3  To investigate the validity of the follower satellites independence assumptions that are made in Section 2 one can compute rule activations in one follower satellite in the presence of a fault in another follower satellite For example the rule activations corresponding to a healthy satellite Sat4 is computed in the presence of the above-mentioned friction fault in Sat3 s Z-axis reaction wheel Figure 11 shows the rule actiFigur e 11  Sat-4 rule activations under the presence of a fault in Sat-3 vations in the intermediate node 223 C 4 1  C 3 4 224 mentioned above It is observed in Figure 11 that the independence assumption is supported by the higher activation level 026  H  of the rule corresponding to healthy condition of Sat4  Now we present some sample hierarchical fault diagnosis results that are obtained by using our CDM First we introduce a fault evidence X 1 9  f 0  1  0 g friction fault at Sat3 RW-Z Figure 12 shows probability distributions or 223belief distributions\224 over the health states of Sat-3 ACS denoted as P X 2 5  at different points in time The X axis corresponds to the time in Figure 8 It is observed that during the time of 223friction fault\224 in RW-Z the probability corresponding to 223RW-Z Fault\224 increases Figure 13 shows the probability disFigure 12  P X 2 5  of Sat-3 ACS at different points in time when an evidence of fault is introduced at subsystem component level tributions over the health states of Sat3 ACS under fault free condition as well as under the injected friction fault at Sat3 RW-Z which represents the existence of a fault in the RW-Z Figure 14 shows the probability distributions over the health states of Sat3 under fault free condition as well as under the injected friction fault at Sat3 RW-Z The distributions justify the existence of a fault in the ACS Next we introduce a fault evidence X 2 10  f 0  0  1 g battery fault at Sat5 EPS Figure 15 shows the probability distributions over the health states of Sat5 under fault free condition as well as under the injected battery fault at Sat5 EPS The distributions justify the existence of a fault in the EPS Figure 16 shows the probability distributions over the health states of the intermediate node 223 C 4 1  C 3 5 224 as mentioned above under fault free condition as well as under the injected battery fault at Sat5 EPS The distributions justify the existence of a fault in Sat5  a fault b fault Figure 13  P X 2 5  of Sat-3 ACS when an evidence of fault is introduced at subsystem component level 10 


a fault b fault Figure 14  P X 3 3  of Sat-3 when an evidence of fault is introduced at subsystem component level a fault b fault Figure 15  P X 3 5  of Sat-5 when an evidence of fault is introduced at subsystem level a fault b fault Figure 16  P X  of the intermediate node 223 C 4 1  C 3 5 224 when an evidence of fault is introduced at subsystem level Figure 17  P X 3 3  of Sat-3 when an evidence of fault is introduced at formation level Finally we introduce a fault evidence f 0  1 g at the intermediate node 223 C 4 1  C 3 3 224 between levels 3 and 4 as mentioned above As stated above the health state evidences corresponding to the formation components are introduced at the intermediate nodes The rule activations that are used to generate evidences corresponding to the formation-level are shown in Figure 10 Figure 17 shows the probability distributions over the health states of Sat3 which indicates high probabilities of ACS and EPS faults in Sat3 in the presence of the fault evidence at higher formation level Note that in this case the probability of EPS fault is slightly lower because it was made implicit in the CDM parameters that ACS is more prone to faults The corresponding probability distributions under fault free conditions are the same as those shown in Figure 14\(a 5 C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK In this paper we present a novel hierarchical fault diagnosis scheme which allows systematic rule-based reasoning in different spacecraft components or subsystems The general idea is to decompose a complex system hierarchically into simpler modules and perform diagnostic reasoning hierarchically by utilizing the rule-bases that are built for each module and connected via a Bayesian network-based Component Dependency Model CDM The procedure for developing the CDM as well as fuzzy rule-based reasoning methodology have been discussed At this stage our hierarchical fault diagnosis methodology is applicable in leader-follower type formation 003ight with some reasonable assumptions We have demonstrated the effectiveness of our proposed methodology by using synthetic data of a leader-follower formation 003ight The data generation model consists of two subsystems 227 attitude control subsystem and electrical power subsystem 227 for each satellite in the formation We have implemented our proposed CDM by decomposing the formation 003ying system hierarchically into 4 levels We have introduced the evidences generated via fuzzy rule-based reasoning of faults in different levels in the hierarchy It is found that when fault evidences were introduced at a node the states of the remaining nodes of our implemented CDM were updated to re\003ect the correct health states of the corresponding components The fuzzy rule-based reasoning methodology that is used to generate fault evidences is found to be consistent with the independence assumptions that were made in Section 2 while developing the CDM We believe our proposed methodology is capable of enhancing the level of autonomy in ground sup11 


port based spacecraft health monitoring and fault diagnosis As a part of our future work we plan to investigate a systematic procedure to generate the CDM parameters possibly by utilizing information on component fault statistics i.e histograms of faults representing the in\003uences of the faults in a node on its child node as well as by exploiting the structural properties of our model Extension of the proposed CDM to a dynamic Bayesian network-based CDM will also be an interesting research that may be pursued A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research is supported in part by a Strategic Projects Grant from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada NSERC R EFERENCES  D L Iv erson 223System Health Monitoring for Space Mission Operations,\224 in Proc 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Big Sky Montana USA March 2008 pp 1\2268  J K urien and M D R-Moreno 223Cost and Bene\002ts of Model-based Diagnosis,\224 in Proc 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Big Sky Montana USA March 2008 pp 1\22614  A Barua and K Khorasani 223Intelligent Model based Hierarchical Fault Diagnosis for Satellite Formations,\224 in Proc 2007 IEEE International Conference on Systems Man and Cybernetics SMC 2007  Montreal Canada October 2007  227\227 223Multi-Le v el Fault Diagnosis in Satellite F or mations using Fuzzy Rule-Based Reasoning,\224 in Accepted 2nd International Symposium on Systems and Control in Aeronautics and Astronauticss ISSCAA 2008  Shenzhen China December 2008  A Barua P  Sinha and K Khorasan i 223A Diagn ostic Tree Approach for Fault Cause Identi\002cation in the Attitude Control Subsystem of Satellites,\224 Accepted for Publication in IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems  2008  A Joshi V  Ga vriloiu A Barua A Garab edian P Sinha and K Khorasani 223Intelligent and Learningbased Approaches for Health Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis of RADARSAT-1 Attitude Control System,\224 in Proc 2007 IEEE International Conference on Systems Man and Cybernetics SMC 2007  Montreal Canada October 2007  J P earl Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems Networks of Plausible Inference  San Monteo CA USA Morgan Kaufmann 1988  F  V  Jensen and T  D Nielsen Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs  2nd ed NY USA Springer 2007  R Ganguli 223 Application of Fuzzy Logic for Fa ult Isolation of Jet Engines,\224 Journal of Engineering for Gas Turbines and Power  vol 125 No 3 pp 617\226623 July 2003  W  W ang 223 An Inte lligent System for Ma chinery C ondition Monitoring,\224 IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems  vol 16 No 1 pp 110\226122 February 2008  T  Y airi Y  Kato and K Hori 223Fault Detection by Mining Association Rules from House-keeping Data,\224 in Proc International Symposium on Arti\002cial Intelligence Robotics and Automation in Space  2001  M A Sw artw out 223BEAM T echnology for Autonomous Self-Analysis,\224 in IEEE Aerospace Conference  Big Sky MT March 2001 pp 2989\2263001  R Gessne r  B K osters A He\003er  R Eilen ber ger  J Hartmann and M Schmidt 223Hierarchical FDIR Concepts in S/C Systems,\224 in Proc 8th International Conference on Space Operations SpaceOps2004  Montreal Canada May 2004  J K orbicz J M K oscien y  Z K o w alczuk and W Cholewa Eds Fault Diagnosis Models Arti\002cial Intelligence Applications  Germany Springer 2004  H A T alebi and R P a tel 223A Neural Netw orkBased Fault Detection Scheme for Satellite Attitude Control Systems,\224 in Proc 2005 IEEE International Conference on Control Applications CCA-2005  Toronto Canada August 2005 pp 1293\2261298  N T udoroiu and K Khorasani 223Satellite Fault D iagnosis using a Bank of Interactive Kalman Filters,\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems  vol 43 No 4 pp 1334\2261350 October 2007  I A Al-Zyo ud and K Khorasani 223Neural Ne tw orkbased Actuator Fault Diagnosis for Attitude Control Subsystem of an Unmanned Space Vehicle,\224 in Proc IEEE International Joint Conference on Neural Networks IJCNN-2006  Vancouver Canada July 2006  Z Q Li L Ma and K Khorasani 223 A Dynamic Neural Network-based Reaction Wheel Fault Diagnosis for Satellites,\224 in Proc IEEE International Joint Conference on Neural Networks IJCNN-2006  Vancouver Canada July 2006  A V aldes and K Khorasani 223Dynamic Neural Network-based Pulsed Plasma Thruster PPT Fault Detection and Isolation for the Attitude Control System of a Satellite,\224 in 2008 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks IJCNN 2008  Hong Kong June 2008  R Isermann 223Model-based Fault Detection and Diagnosis\226Status and Applications,\224 Annual Reviews in Control  vol 29 pp 71\22685 2005  G J W ells R E Zee and C J Damaren 223Hardware Emulation Strategies for Concurrent Microsatellite Hardware and Software Development,\224 Canadian Aeronautics and Space Journal  vol 48 No 1 pp 87\22695 12 


March 2002  J M K oscien y and M Syfert 223Fuzzy Diagnostic Reasoning that Takes into Account the Uncertainty of the Relation between Faults and Symptoms,\224 International Journal of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science  vol 16 No.1 pp 27\22635 2006  H J Zimmermann Fuzzy Set Theory and Its Applications  4th ed USA Kluwer Academic Publishers 2001  G W  Hill 223Researches i n Luner Theory  224 American Journal of Mathematics  vol 1 No 1 pp 5\22626 1878  S R V adali S S V addi and K T  Alf riend 223An Intelligent Control Concept for Formation Flying Satellites,\224 International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control  vol 12 pp 97\226115 2002  P  C Hughes Spacecraft Attitude Dynamics  USA John Wiley  Sons Inc 1986  W  Ren and R W  Beard 223 Decentralized Scheme for Spacecraft Formation Flying via the Virtual Structure Approach,\224 AIAA Journal of Guidance Control and Dynamics  vol 27 No 1 pp 73\22682 January 2004  K Og ata Modern Control Engineering  3rd ed N.J USA Prentice-Hall Inc 1996  B Bialk e 223High Fidelity Mathematical Modeling of Reaction Wheel Performance,\224 Advances in the Astronautical Sciences  vol 98 pp 483\226496 1998  Z Jiang S Liu and R A Doug al 223Design and T e sting of Spacecraft Power Systems Using VTB,\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems  vol 39 No 3 pp 976\226989 July 2003  223Satellite Electrical Po wer System 224 USC V i rtual Test Bed Homepage Cited October 2008 On Available http://vtb.ee.sc.edu/applications  Z Jiang R A Doug al and S Liu 223 Application of VTB in Design and Testing of Satellite Electrical Power Systems,\224 Journal of Power Sources  vol 122 pp 95\226108 2003  K Murph y  223Bayes Net T oolbox for MA T LAB,\224 Cited October 2008 A v ail able http://www.cs.ubc.ca 030 murphyk/Software/BNT/bnt.html B IOGRAPHY Amitabh Barua received his B Tech Hons degree in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology IIT at Kharagpur India in 2000 After graduation he acquired few-year industrial experience on process control and instrumentation He received his M.A.Sc degree in Electrical Engineering from Concordia University Montreal Canada in 2004 where he is currently pursuing research towards Ph.D degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering Since 2004 he has also been working as a Systems Engineer R&D at GlobVision Inc Montreal Canada where he is involved in different industrial projects related to engineering research and technology development for aviation and space applications His research work is primarily focused toward fault diagnosis and health monitoring of autonomous and intelligent systems His research interests also encompass fault-tolerant systems and real-time systems Mr Barua is a student member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics AIAA K Khorasani M 85 received the B.S M.S and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign in 1981 1982 and 1985 respectively From 1985 to 1988 he was an Assistant Professor at the University of Michigan at Dearborn and since 1988 he has been at Concordia University Montreal Canada where he is currently a Professor and Concordia University Tier I Research Chair in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering His main areas of research are in nonlinear and adaptive control intelligent and autonomous control of networked unmanned systems fault diagnosis isolation and recovery FDIR neural network applications to pattern recognition robotics and control adaptive structure neural networks and modeling and control of 003exible link/joint manipulators He has authored/co-authored over 250 publications in these areas 13 


 14  Table 8 - Flash-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 6U  Approx 28 x12.7 x 25 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  4 ea Mass  3.5 kg  Power  6 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel SpaceWire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(EDAC Sparing extra Devices  254 512 Gb \(not incl EDAC  Controller Board  Figure 20 - Controller Card Layout \(Violet = Shared Memory  Figure 20 shows one of many possible methods of design for an IO controller slice.  The IO controller slice provides redundant SpaceWire interfaces and redundant interfaces to the backplane.  Alt hough there are two controllers shown there is, in this concept, a single set of Shared Memory which is common between both controllers One of the main functions of the active controller is to build and maintain a directory of memory sector-to-physical address translation tables.  Having the table stored in Shared Memory assures timely restart of the recorder function should it become necessary to activate and swap to the alternate controller Interfaces  The Data Recorder interfa ces with the Command Data Handling \(CDH\ubsystem via the standard SpaceWire interface 8 Utilizing conservative design techniques, a sustained Write speed of at least 200 Mbps into memory is guaranteed.   The recorder is capable of supporting simultaneous Writing and Reading of data subject to usual certain timing restrictions imposed by the memory devices themselves Standard 28 Volt bus power is applied to the SSR which features two power convert er units for redundancy Redundancy & Fault Tolerance The execution of good systems engineering practice is recommended and will, most likely result in a physical  enlargement of the SSR in one dimension.  This may consist of addition of spare memory to each memory slice, or the addition of one or more spare memory slices to the entire design With respect to Fault Tolerance, aside from the use of redundant interfaces and contro llers, described above, the HC-SSR is designed such that individual blocks of words as determined by EDAC boundaries can be tagged as Do Not Use.  An example of an EDAC word with embedded control bits is included as Figure 21  Figure 21 - EDAC Word Bit-Level Assignments File System The HC-SSR contains built in File Management system supervised by Interface/Controlle r ASICs.  File storage is compatible with the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP thereby reducing the need for processing and packetizing data externally   8 ESA Standard ECSS-E-50-12A 96 bits 26 -->||<-- 6 EDAC Ctl/Hdr/ID Data 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


