Abstract 
Business people and academia are now excited about Big Data and Cloud Computing as the new and most innovative means for enhancing productivity and customer satisfaction. Simultaneously, there are strong concerns about privacy not only among privacy advocates but among consumers in general, and how to strike a right balance is the main theme in every field of science. However, it is quite strange that very little attention has been paid to the concept of confidentiality, which must 
Privacy, Confidentiality, and Public Utility Koichiro Hayashi, Ph.D., LL.D Institute of Information Security Yokohama, Japan hayashi@iisec.ac.jp 
Social Issues of Big Data and Cloud 
be the core element of privacy This paper first tries to analyze the following two dichotomies as a basis for possible policy considerations: \(1 privacy approach in the United States versus confidentiality approach in the United Kingdom, though they share the same common law tradition, and \(2\clear demarcation between Information Serv ice and Telecommunications in the United States, dating bac k to the Computer Inquiry in the 1970s This paper also analyzes the features of the Cloud and discusses the possibility of treating it as a new type of Public Utility, namely Information Utility. This hypothesis should be rejected, because there are crucial differences in market structures, regardless of clear similarities in service features Instead, this paper emphasizes 
the necessity of protecting confidentiality as an industrial norm Taking into account the long tradition of free market for computing industries, self-regul ation is basically preferable to government regulation. But from a different viewpoint of nudge”, a hybrid combination of libertarianism and paternalism, this paper concludes by proposing five short recommendations including fair contract terms as well as unbundling confidentiality from privacy 
Keywords 
I B IG D ATA F EVER 
 Big data; privacy; confidentiality; cloud; public utility; nudge 
Business people are now excited about “Big Data BD\w and most innovative means for enhancing productivity and customer satisfaction, and the term BD has become one of the buzz words not only in business but in society as a whole Actually, as computing power advances quite astonishingly thanks to Moore’s law, the amount of data in our world has been exploding and analyzing large data Velocity, Volume, Veracity and Variety\s to be a key basis of competition. BD is expected to generate new productivity growth and innovation–that is, new levels of business value It is natural that business always seeks a new trend, but 
BD may be a kind of fever. As the world economy is fluctuating everywhere since the Lehman shock, there is a strong expectation toward new businesses as well as new jobs. Reportedly, BD now app ears in 0.1% of all job listings and it is expected to double before the end of 2012 and to pass 
Hadoop as a popular term for this field of emerging technology [1  Professors such as Brynjolfsson of MIT, a distinguished researcher in Information Technology \(IT and productivity with hi s colleague Andrew McAfee seem to be enthusiastic about BD. They published an ebook titled “Race against Machine,” and tell us as follows 
002 003 
in their blog  
Today businesses can measure their activities and customer relationships with unprecedented precision. As a result, they are awash with data. This is particularly evident in the digital economy, where clickstream data give precisely targeted and real time insights into consumer behavior.” They al so say “breakthroughs in innovation often rely on b reakthroughs in measurement But they take a hard look at the impact of acceleration of technology on jobs Our technologies are racing ahead but many of our skills a nd organizations are lagging behind. So it’s urgent that we understand these phenomena 
002 
discuss their implications and come up with strategies that allow human workers to race with machines instead of racing against them They describe themselves as digital optimists,” and admit that IT tools are “grea tly improving our world and our lives, and will continue to do so.” They put forth ideas for using technologies to accelerate organizational innovation and enhance human capital II B IG D ATA AS M EANS FOR R ESILIENCE  Before addressing priv acy issues, I will introduce some experiences about how BD can contribute to 
resilience in case of emergenc y, taking the 3.11 tragedy as an extreme example The term 3.11 is an acronym of the triple disasters that hit Japan two years ago, including the earthquake, the tsunami, and the nuclear plant accidents. It started around 14:46 on March 11, 2011 with the M9.0 earthquake that covered most of the eastern half of mainland Japan, and was followed by a tsunami so huge as to occur only once every 100 years. These two were natural disasters although there was criticism of earthquake prediction and tsunami warning ability 
2013 International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security 978-0-7695-5008-4/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ARES.2013.66 506 


In contrast the nuclear accident at Fukushima No 1 power plant operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. was a mixture of natural and man-made disasters, since precautionary actions have protect ed other plants such as the Onagawa plant \(more closely located to the epicenter of the earthquake a catastrophe. And the potential risk of radioactive conta mination still continues During the first 48 hours after the disaster, which is believed to be the crucial time for rescuing victims, all roads were extremely congested, since some were destroyed, and some were over loaded with cars rushing toward the stricken areas. Loss of information worsened the situation In the midst of such chaos, some could enjoy navigation by Honda and Pioneer Traffic Tracing Systems, each of which provided congestion information to her subscribers respectively. One example of data provided on that occasion is shown in Fig. 1. While the subscribers receive traffic information, they also send their own routing data to the system, which constitutes BD, and shows a reliable and less-congested routing As usefulness of the data became apparent information was not confined to the subscribers, but opened to the public via Google in cooperation with Toyota and Nissan, which helped those who went to the damaged areas by car, or so me might have changed to other transportation means Google provided another type of aid called Person Finder. In an emergency, it is sometimes difficult to make even a telephone call, which preven ted the confirmation of safety even among family members. Google set up Person Finder as early as the evening of 3.11, and helped people reconnect with friends and loved ones in the aftermath of natural and man-made disasters The above two examples were success stories. But there were more failure stories than success. Japan has been maintaining a family registry, and it is the basic public record for all interactions between government and citizens. Tsunami flooded into several town offices and washed away or invalidated these records made of paper But some cities could survive, because three months earlier copies of all records including paper documents were stored in another place, where tsunami did not reach There is now a strong tendency toward digitizing these data, and storing in a Cloud, re mote from the town hall Figure 1 Example of Big Data Application III P RIVACY C ONCERNS Indeed, BD will be promising, but it is usually accompanied by privacy concerns on the other side of the same coin as symboliz advocates such as EPIC \(Electronic Privacy Information Center\any privacy alerts including BD-related potential violations, and the research community is making every effort to devel op privacy-p reserving data mining \(PPDM\enhancing technology \(PET in order to have a right balance between opportunities and concerns about BD Academia are also trying to solv e the problem; for exam put BD between Big Benefit and Big Concerns, and call for “Big Decisions while Machanvajjhala and  Privacy.” However, discussions tend to go on without a clear definition of privacy, and quite frequently, privacy is confused with confidentiali ty of private information Privacy laws are usually considered in the context of an individual's privacy ri ght or reasonable expectation of privacy, both of which are subjective rather than objective Therefore, there are ever-lasting debates among legal scholars regarding what elem ents constitute privacy Warren and Brandeis’ paper p t, in  which they defined privacy as “an inviolate personality symbolized as “the right to be let alone Seventy years later, Professor Prosser classified privacy tort into four categories: unreasonable intrusion disclosure of private facts, fal se light publicity, and appropriation of the other’s name W e m u st add two more elements to this, since self-determination such as sexual orientation or contraception is admitted as one of the privacy elements by the supreme court \(Roe v Wade, 410 U.S. 113 \(1973\new right called the right of publicity has been developed by the lower court decisions \(for example, Haelan Laboratories v. Topps Chewing Gum \(2nd Cir. 202 F.2d 866 \(1953 Therefore, privacy is now considered to contain at least six sub-sets of rights as follows [9   selfdetermination unreasonable intrusion public disclosure of private facts false light publicity appropriation of the other’s name or likeness, and right of publicity. Thus, it is fairly di fficult to maintain a fruitful discussion among people without prior specification of the speaker’s notion of privacy In the case of BD, privacy concerns are mostly related to types 3 and 4., which are generally called “data privacy”, but still some am biguity and confusion must be inevitable. The worst example of such confusion is illustrated in the document titled “Top Ten Big Data Security and Privacy Challenges” issued by Cloud Security Alliance \(CSA\b   the following ten challenges are listed Secure computations in distributed programming frameworks Security best practices for non-relational data stores Secure data storage and transaction logs End-point input validation/filtering Real-time security/compliance monitoring Scalable and composable privacy-preserving dat a mining and analytics Cryptographically enforced access control and secure 
004 005 006 007 010 011 012 005 006 007 010 011 012 013 
507 


004 
communication Granular access control Granular audit, and Data provenance In this analysis, if access to private data is protected by cryptography, we will have privacy in BD, because the parties are not considered as vulnerable or malicious. The threat model of PET for privacy is different; because it considers communication partners as malicious or nontrustworthy Moreover, it is very difficult to identify which item is closely related to privacy Taken as broadly as possible almost all items are related, and only items 6 and 7 are included when you take it as narr owly as possible. That is partly because the term privacy itself is so ambiguous, as mentioned above, but the main reason lies in the attitude and knowledge of the author who uses the term “privacy without specifying the accurate meaning. In this regard even lawyers are not exceptions, not to mention laymen who may be innocent and ex empted from any liability, but still confusion remains In order to have a fruit ful discussion, I have proposed a clear unbundling of terms between privacy and data protection form er m eans a sem a ntic effect on personality and the latter a mere syntactical method The former dispute must be settl ed by the courts not on the property rule but on the liability rule [1  latter may be solved by technology My idea is very close to the legal system existing in the United States, but it is not universal. Rather, the European system covering th e member countries of the European Union seems to be more prevailing due to the massive adopters. These two systems are contrastive in the following six points as sh own in Table-I, among which the alienability concept is most important, because it is directly linked with separati on of personal data and privacy IV D IFFERENCES BETWEEN P RIVACY AND C ONFIDENTIALITY The demarcation between personal data and privacy must be the first step to understand privacy as a whole But a more important distinct ion will be the one between privacy and confidentiality though usually these two terms are used interchangeably For example, when people talk about security management, confidentiality is one of the top priority elements of CIA \(confid entiality, integrity, and availability\privacy pr otection is believed to be secured through confiden tiality, regardless of subtle differences between CSA and PET mentioned above However, from a legal viewpoint a quite different scene may arise. On one hand there is a general consensus that legal method or institution to secure privacy is gradually harmonized toward a single global standard. On the other hand, there exists a view that insists that the differences of systems and cultures still constitute an important factor As the latter example, the conflicts between the European Union and the United States are frequently referred to as mentioned above. But it is quite strange that the United States and the United Kingdom show a contrastive attitude toward protection of confidentiality TABLE I D IFFERENT A PPROACHES BETWEEN USA AND EU 
014 015 016 
Item USA EU 
Nature of right Personal \(Human right Human right Separation of personal data and privacy Alienability of personal data Alienable Tradable\\(not separable from privacy Legal tradition Common law Statute Official norm Sectoral statutes ECHR + Omnibus directive Public/private dichotomy Separate treatment Combined principles separate laws Dispute resolution Litigation Data protection commissioner though they share the common law tradition as well as Prince Albert v. Strange in 184 9 \(1 McN. & G. 25\which was picked up as the starting case law by Warren and   poi nt out, English court has not changed their atti tude toward privacy since Strange, while American legal society has been thoroughly influenced by Wa rren and Brandeis. Therefore it is quite contrastive that Eng lish court keeps its tradition to preserve confidentiality be tween the confi der and the confidant to protect privacy, whereas American courts try to protect privacy per se apart from confidentiality. And in this regard, Japan belongs to the American school The differences between the two systems appear in the following four different layers as summarized in Table-II First, privacy is quite personal and subjective, as the symbolic phrase “to be let alone” implies. On the contrary confidentiality depends upon the relationship between the confider and the confidant, thus making the private nature of contract more visible and objective through the relationship Second, privacy is usually as absolute as one of the human rights inalienable to others, though there are slight differences between European Union countries and the United States, as was shown on the occasion of the EU Directive safe harbor disputes  slight differences, it is quite different from confidentiality which fundamentally constitu tes a kind of contract, taking for granted personal in formation as alienable The third difference is what ki nd of right the victim may have against the injurer: in the case of privacy, the plaintiff may sue the injurer against the violation of his/her privacy as a cause of action, whereas in the case of breach of confidentiality, both parties of the contract may go to court in search of damages against the breach of contract Injunction may be awarded according to the situation, but generally speaking it is more feasible in case of privacy since violation affects moral rights Last but not least, the third party effect is most important, but there is little difference, though the readers may suppose privacy is more guaranteed in terms of third party effect, because it is akin to property right. But actually, the English system of confidentiality provides a similar level of protection agai nst the third party who breaks the confidentiality depending on whether it is intentionally  One important note before closi ng this section is that the English system may have advantages and 
508 


017 020 
Item Privacy Confidentiality 
TABLE II P RIVACY VERSUS C ONFIDENTIALITY Attribution Quite personal and individualistic Relationship between confider and confidant Nature of right Personal \(human Contract between confider and confidant Legal claim against breach Entitled to the person who suffers from violation, with injunctive relief implied Entitled to either party or both parties of the contract with injunctive relief conditionally Third party effect Litigation can include the third party, who knowingly or without appropriate care violate privacy Litigation can include the third party, who knowingly or without appropriate care break confidentiality disadvantages as is the case with other social systems. On the pro side, it seems very suited to the nature of privacy especially in terms of sub jective as well as relational nature. On the con side, it has long been supported by the ethics of “gentleman”, which has no guarantee of efficacy in the civiliz V D EMARCATION BETWEEN I NFORMATION S ERVICE AND T ELECOMMUNICATIONS Now we will move to the next issue: who will be the major players in the BD business and how to treat them in order to enhance benefits as well as reduce concerns In previous days, the database business was constructed mainly by data creators or data gatherers. For example, the Chemical Abstract was created, operated and maintained by the American Chemical Society, which is an association of big users of this database. The same thing can be said of airline reservation systems, where alliances of airliners are eager to gain competitive advantages against other alliances But the situation has been fairly changed in the environment of ubiquitous computing and reliable outsourcing. Today, many firms engaging in IT-related business are collecting and accumu lating BD through the daily process of their business Meanwhile, corporations other than IT-related areas are focusing on their core competences and entrus ting IT-related businesses to third parties. Thus, main players in BD will be IT-related companies such as Google, Amazon, ISPs, and telecommunications carriers Indeed, there is a green field of information services where various kinds of existing industries as well as ones quite different from the trad itional industry category compete. However, legal treatment cannot keep pace with these rapid changes effectively, but instead stick to the traditional categorization. He re, the most important and still influential market demarcation is one between telecommunications and information services In the early 1970s, recognizing the convergence of computers and telecommunications, the FCC \(Federal Communications Commission\mputer Inquiry 
It was a duty for the FCC to decide whether she has jurisdiction over inform ation services according to the prescriptions by the Constitution \(FCC’s role is limited to interstate communications\ore important background was that she tried to establish a right balance in terms of regulation between the two promising computer-related industries After struggling to draw a clear line between the two by new concepts such as hy brid processing and hybrid communications, the task was forwarded to the next inquiry. In 1980, the FCC adopted a new policy by Computer Inquiry the basic principle is the distinction between Basic and Enhanced services, where the former is subject to regulations by the FCC, while the latter is free from any governmental regulations This dichotomy is essentiall y maintained by the Communications Act of 1996 \(Amendment to Communications Act of 1934 with the slight change of the names–Telecommunications and Information services Thus, it is confirmed again that information service is free from governmental intervention. In other words, computer industries both in manufactur ing and in services are and have been “free markets VI C LOUD AS P UBLIC U TILITY  The above-mentioned situation is almost the same at least in the developed economies, and now the typical provision of computer-network power is called “Cloud Cloud is another kind of buzz word, but its concept is shared among computer professionals. NIST \(National Institute for Standards and Technology\fines cloud as follows with a short reservati on that these definitions attributes, and characteristics will evolve and change over time Cloud computing is a model for enabling convenient on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g., networks, servers storage, applications, and servi ces\n be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort  While the NIST definition is generally accepted, few people recognize that cloud service resembles the public utility in terms of security featur es entrusted to the provider, dubbed as C IA. Section 3542 of 44 USC \(Public printing and documents prescribes “information security and CIA as follows the term ‘information security’ means protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide—\(A\egrity, which means guarding against improper information modification or destruction and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity; \(B confidentiality, which me ans preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information and \(C s ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information These descriptions are technology oriented but if you look at them carefully, you ca n realize some similarities with my previous explanati ons about confid entiality in a legal sense. If company A ent rusts a Cloud company B with all transactions regarding A’s main product C, they usually contract about detailed terms and conditions about information regarding product, transactions and other related ones such as customer data, personal data and so on. In this regard, A will be a confider and B will be a confidant regarding the information concerned 
509 


However, the novelty of Cloud Computing is offering on-demand access to unlimited, shared computing resources as software services with standardized interfaces which may lead to disappearing security domains Therefore, enforcement of CIA on control and data flow is a challenge within and between external services Regarding privacy aggregation of personal data at cloud services makes secondary usage of personal data for statistics interesting due to sufficient \(in statistics and in real-time monitoring\availa ble amount of data Here are two important facts im plied: First, Cloud is now a necessary and convenient tool for corporations to do business. Second, the longer A uses B’s service, the more difficult for A to quit and change to the other Cloud by the effect of lock-in or hi gh switching cost, though transferability is propagated as one of the most appealing points. These characteristics are shared among so-called Public Utility”, ranging from energy supply \(electricity and gas\ transportation \(railway, bus and truck\ and communications \(postal service, telecommunications networks, which are subject to governmental regulation The leading case for p ublic utility was an early decision by the US Supreme Court in Munn v. Illinois \(94 U.S. 113 \(1877 agriculture. The Munn case allowed states to regulate certain businesses including railroads \(mostly rate regulation\ithin their borders, and is commonly regarded as a milestone in the growth of federal government regulation. This decision was reexamined by Wabash Case \(Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway Company v. Illinois, 118 U.S 557 \(1886\which severely limited the rights of states to control interstate commerce It led to the creation of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the ancestor of the FCC As early as the late 1960s, at the dawn of real-time computing, Sprague pr o posed to regard information service as a new type of public util ity. His point was that some regulations are necessary regarding nondiscriminatory treatment to customers including nondiscriminatory tariffs. And there are many authors who describe Cloud as having simila r features, though most of them are indifferent to regulation Although significant similarity between public utility and Cloud lies in their servi ce features, as decided by the Munn case such as “public convenience and necessity essential to daily operation, the market structure is quite different as summarized in Table-III \(comparison is limited to common carrier type utility public utility, the market in evitably becomes a natural monopoly at least in the local areas due to huge lump sum investment with increasing returns. Therefore, government intervention is justified to protect consumers from abuse of monopolist’s power. But in the case of Cloud, such a monopoly is not an inevitable outcome, but a result of fierce competition as indicated in the investigations by the DOJ in the Microsoft case Thus public utility hypothesis for Cloud should be rejected, but there is a strong concern about confidentiality as mentioned above. I think this concern should be regulated by a neutral instrum ent such as the independent administrative commission or the commissioner regardless whether or not Clou d is a public utility. The secrecy of communications is the severest case TABLE III C OMPARISON BETWEEN P UBLIC U TILITY AND C LOUD 
004 
Item Public Utility Common Carrier type Cloud Remarks 
Service features Public convenience and necessity Same as left column Infrastructure deployment Lump sum investment with sunk cost Existing facilities available Dependence on the infrastructure Strong dependence Alternatives available Monopoly or oligopoly Natural monopoly Tendency toward oligopoly after market competition Oligopoly  is not natural but a result of competition Nondiscrimination Requisite Not necessary if competition exists Confidentiality of content Must be secured Same as left column Secrecy of communicati ons as the severest case VII N UDGE R ATHER THAN R EGULATION Before closing, I will list some short policy recommendations on what the legal structure should be regarding Cloud, which deals with Big Data on a daily basis First, self-regulation is preferable to government regulation, especially when we take into account that computer industries have successfully grown without any governmental intervention. But as the harmonization of the legal system is a requisite in the global economy, I will promote a new way of sel f-regulation called “nudge proposed by Thaler and  As it is a m i xture of  libertarianism and paternalism, it requires a subtle balance between the two elements, but still seems promising Second, if a minimum enactment is necessary under the “nudge” principle, it would be how to deal with unfair contract terms. Of course there exist some protections for consumers, but in the case of BD and Cloud, would-be victims are not only consumers but corporations including small and start-up businesse s. An English act named Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 may be a good example and the Japanese government is now making effort to insert a similar clause into the 100 year-old civil code Third, we should investig ate carefully what types of protection is fit for information goods. While we are familiar with property-type protection such as intellectual property, how to protect confidential information is still under-investigated. Most countries criminalize the stealing of tangible goods, but how to deal with intangibles is not yet fixed. No country crimina lizes stealing of information regardless of content, but only a few criminalize stealing of personal data under limited conditions. And there are large differences in how to preserve secrecy of communications even am ong developed economies Fourth, as the first step of the above-mentioned investigation we should focus our effort on the relationship between privacy and confidentiality, which seems to me a main cause of confusion. In this regard, my 
510 


http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-145/SP800145.pdf   R. E. Sprague, “Information Utilities,” Prentice Hall, 1969  R. Thaler and C. Sunstein, “Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness,” Penguin Books 2008 
proposal is to unbundle data protection from privacy. The English concept of con fidentiality, treated as relation rather than substance, is informative here Finally, in relation to secrecy of communications, it would be another topic of interest how to establish a level playing field for all IT-r elated industri es, especially between information service and telecommunications. We may need Compu ter Inquiry in the very near future R EFERENCES  Toolbox.com [2  http://it.toolbox.com/blogs/infosphere/the-origin-andgrowth-of-big-data-buzz-51509   E. Brynjolfsson and A. Mc Afee, “Race Against The Machine: How the Digital Revolution is Accelerating Innovation, Driving Productivity, and Irreversibly Transforming Employment and the Economy” Digital Frontier Press, 2011  E. Brynjolfsson and A. McAfee, ‘The Big Data Boom Is the Innovation Story of Our Time http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/11/thebig-data-boom-is-the-innovation-story-of-our-time/248215   G. Orwell, “Nineteen Eighty-four,” Martin Secker Warburg, 1949  O. Tene and J. Polonetsky, “Privacy in the Age of Big Data: A Time for Big Decisions,” Stanford Law Review Online, Vol.64, p.63, 2012  A. Machanvajjhala and J. Reiter, ”Big Privacy: Protecting Confidentiality in Big Data,” XRDS, Vol.19, No.1, 2012  S. Warren and L. Brandeis, “The Right to Privacy Harvard Law Review, Vol.4, No.5, 1890  W. Prosser, “Privacy,” California Law Review, Vol.48 No.3  1960  K. Hayashi, “The Subtle Balance between Privacy and Property: Rereading Warren and Brandeis with Special Reference to Post,” The Journal of Japan Society of Information and Communications Research, Vol. 30, No. 3 2012  \(in Japanese  Cloud Security Alliance \(CSA\Ten Big Data Security and Privacy Challenges,” November https://downloads.cloudsecurityalliance.org/initiatives/bdw g/Big_Data_Top_Ten_v1.pd f  K. Hayashi, “A Proposal for Unbundling Data Protection from Privacy,” presented at the Executive Forum on New Method for Data Protection, February 16, 2013 \(in Japanese  G. Calabresi and A. D. Melamed, “Property Rules Liability Rules and Inalienability: One View of the Cathedral,” Harvard Law Review, Vol.85, p.1089, 1972  N. M. Richards and D. Solove, “Privacy’s Other Path Recovering the Law of Confidentiality,” 96, The Georgetown Law Journal, 123, 2007  P. P. Swire and R. E. Litan, “None of Your Business Brookings Institution, 1998  F. Gurry, “Breach of Confidence,” Clarendon Press, 1984  D. Vincent, “The Culture of Secrecy: Britain 1832-1998 Oxford University Press, 1998  NIST, “The NIST Definition of Cloud Computing Special Publication 800-145 National Institute for Standards and Technology 
021 
004 
511 


100 1000 None 10 Test Data Accuracy Rotation interval 95 93 96 94 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 1 Use of only D 1 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 2   Figure 9  Results on the Page-blocks data with ten attributes \(Setting 1 100 1000 10 Test Data Accuracy 92 88 86 90 94 Rotation interval Seven Subsets \(Scenario 1 Use of only D 1 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 2 None  Figure 10  Results on the Segment data with 19 attributes \(Setting 1 100 1000 10 Test Data Accuracy 86 82 80 84 88 Rotation interval None Seven Subsets \(Scenario 1 Use of only D 1 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 2  Figure 11  Results on the Satimage data with 36 attributes \(Setting 1 C  Experimental Results from Setting 2 In the second setting D 1 has no missing attribute while about n 6 attributes are missing in the other six data subsets Similar results are obtained from the first and second settings for the phoneme data with five attributes since the number of missing attributes is one in both settings. Figs. 12-14 show experimental results on the other data sets in Setting 2 Since much more attributes are missing in Figs. 12-14 i.e., two in Fig. 12, four in Fig. 13, and six in Fig. 14\han Figs. 9-11 with a single missing attribute, positive effects of using all the seven data subsets decrease from Figs. 9-11 to Figs. 12-14. However, better results are still obtained by the use of all the seven data subsets \(black and red open circles than the use of D 1 blue closed circles\gs. 12-14 100 1000 10 Test Data Accuracy Rotation interval 95 93 96 None 94 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 1 Use of only D 1 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 2  Figure 12  Results on the Page-blocks data with ten attributes \(Setting 2 100 1000 10 Test Data Accuracy 92 88 86 90 94 Rotation interval None Seven Subsets \(Scenario 1 Use of only D 1 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 2  Figure 13  Results on the Segment data with 19 attributes \(Setting 2 100 1000 10 Test Data Accuracy 86 82 80 84 88 Rotation interval None Seven Subsets \(Scenario 1 Use of only D 1 Seven Subsets \(Scenario 2  Figure 14  Results on the Satimage data with 36 attributes \(Setting 2 One interesting observation in Figs. 12-14 is that better results are obtained in many cases from Scenario 2 than Scenario 1. This may be because new fuzzy rules are always generated from D 1 with no missing attributes in Scenario 2 In Scenario 1, new fuzzy rules are generated from D 1 with no missing attributes and also from the other six data subsets D i   i  2, 3, ..., 7\th missing attributes V  C ONCLUSION  In this paper, we examined the potential usefulness of our parallel distributed fuzzy GBML algorithm for fuzzy rulebased classifier design from multiple data sets with different missing attributes. We also examined its potential usefulness under the assumption of the severe privacy preserving policy where data sets were handled as black-box data sets. More 69 


specifically, we assumed that a black-box data set was used only for calculating the error rate of each classifier. No other information \(e.g., attribute values of each pattern, its true class, and its classification result\ were available In our computational experiments, we divided training patterns into seven data subsets: one complete data subset with no missing attributes and six incomplete data subsets with different missing attributes. We observed that classifier performance was improved by the use of all the seven data subsets in comparison with the use of only the complete data subset. This improvement was also observed even when the six incomplete data subsets were black-box data sets It was always assumed in our computational experiments that one data subset was fully available. It is an interesting future research issue to examine the learning from multiple data subsets where no data subsets are fully available \(i.e., all data subsets have different missing attributes and the severe private preserving policy\ch a difficult situation, more sophisticated handling of missing values may be needed since all data subsets have missing attributes. More efficient evolutionary learning may be also needed since we cannot generate fuzzy rules directly from training patterns R EFERENCES  1  R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, “Privacy-preserving data mining Proc of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data pp. 439-450, Dallas, May 15-18, 2000. DOI: 10.1145 342009.335438 2  Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas, “Priva cy preserving data mining Proc. of the 20th Annual International Cryptology Conference \(LNCS 1880 Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2000 pp. 36-54, Santa Barbara August 20-24, 2000. DOI: 10.1007/3-540-44598-6_3 3  Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas, “Privacy preserving data mining Journal of Cryptology vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 177-206, June 2002. DOI 10.1007 s00145-001-0019-2 4  V. S. Verykios, E. Bertino, I. N. Fovin, L. P. Provenza, Y. Saygin and Y. Theodoridis, “State-of-the-art in privacy preserving data mining Sigmod Record vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 50-57, March 2004. DOI 10.1145/974121.974131 5  M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton, “Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data IEEE Trans. on Knowledge and Data Engineering vol. 16, no.9, pp. 10261037, September 2004. DOI: 10.1109/TKDE.2004.45 6  J. Vaidya and C. Clifton, “Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data Proc. of the 8th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pp. 639-644, Edmonton, July 23-25, 2002. DOI: 10.1145 775047.775142 7  A. Fernández, S. García, J. Luengo, E. Bernadó-Mansilla, and F Herrera, “Genetics-based machine learning for rule induction: State of the art, taxonomy, and comparative study IEEE Trans. on Evolutionary Computation vol. 14, no. 6, pp. 913-941, December 2010. DOI: 10.1109/TEVC.2009.2039140 8  S. García, A. Fernández, J. Luengo, and F. Herrera, “A study of statistical techniques and performance measures for genetics-based machine learning: Accuracy and interpretability Soft Computing  vol. 13, no. 10, pp. 959-977, August 2009 DOI: 10.1007/s00500008-0392-y  9  J. Bacardit and N. Krasnogor, “Performance and efficiency of memetic Pittsburgh learning classifier systems Evolutionary Computation vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 307-342, Fall 2009. DOI: 10.1162 evco.2009.17.3.307 10  M. A. Franco, N. Krasnogor and J. Bacardit, “GAssist vs. BioHEL critical assessment of two paradigms of genetics-based machine learning,” Soft Computing, vol. 17, no. 6, pp. 953-981, June 2013 DOI: 10.1007/s00500-013-1016-8 11  F. J. Berlanga, A. J. Rivera, M J. del Jesus, and F. Herrera, “GPCOACH: Genetic Programming-based learning of COmpact and ACcurate fuzzy rule-based classification systems for Highdimensional problems Information Sciences vol. 180, no. 8, pp 1183-1200, April 2010. DOI:10.1016/j.ins.2009.12.020 12  J. Alcalá-Fdez, R. Alcalá, and F. Herrera, “A fuzzy association rulebased classification model for high-dimensional problems with genetic rule selection and lateral tuning IEEE Trans. on Fuzzy Systems vol. 19, no. 5, pp. 857-872, October 2011. DOI: 10.1109 TFUZZ.2011.2147794 13  J. A. Sanz, A. Fernández, H. Bustince, and F. Herrera, “IVTURS: a linguistic fuzzy rule-based classification system based on a new Interval-Valued fuzzy reasoning method with TUning and Rule Selection IEEE Trans. on Fuzzy Systems In Press. Available from http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6420926 DOI: 10.1109/TFUZZ.2011.2147794 14  F. Herrera, “Genetic fuzzy systems: Taxonomy, current research trends and prospects Evolutionary Intelligence vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 2746, March 2008. DOI: 10.1007/s12065-007-0001-5 15  H. Ishibuchi and Y. Nojima, “Analysis of interpretability-accuracy tradeoff of fuzzy systems by multiobjective fuzzy genetics-based machine learning International Journal of Approximate Reasoning  44 \(1\ 2007. DOI: 10.1145/775047.775142 16  M. Fazzolari, R. Alcalá, Y. Nojima, H. Ishibuchi, and F. Herrera, “A review of the application of multiobjective evolutionary fuzzy systems: Current status and further directions IEEE Trans. on Fuzzy Systems vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 45-65, February 2013. DOI: 10.1109 TFUZZ.2012.2201338 17  Y. Nojima, H. Ishibuchi, and I. Kuwajima, “Parallel distributed genetic fuzzy rule selection Soft Computing vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 511519, March 2009. DOI: 10.1007/s00500-008-0365-1 18  H. Ishibuchi, S. Mihara, and Y. Nojima, “Parallel distributed hybrid fuzzy GBML models with rule set migration and training data rotation IEEE Trans. on Fuzzy Systems vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 355-368 April 2013. DOI: 10.1109/TFUZZ.2012.2215331 19  E. Alba and M. Tomassini, “Parallelism and evolutionary algorithms IEEE Trans. on Evolutionary Computation vol. 6, no. 5 pp. 443-462, October 2002. DOI: 10.1109/TEVC.2002.800880 20  S. Cahon, N. Melab, and E. G. Talbi, “ParadisEO: A framework for the reusable design of parallel and distributed metaheuristics Journal of Heuristics vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 357-380, May 2004. DOI 10.1023/B:HEUR.0000026900.92269.ec 21  H. Ishibuchi, T. Yamamoto, and T. Nakashima, “Hybridization of fuzzy GBML approaches for pattern classification problems IEEE Trans. on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics - Part B vol. 35, no. 2, pp 359-365, April 2005. DOI: 10.1109/TSMCB.2004.842257 22  H. Ishibuchi and T. Nakashima, “Effect of rule weights in fuzzy rulebased classification systems IEEE Trans. on Fuzzy Systems vol. 9 no. 4, pp. 506-515, August 2001. DOI: 10.1109/91.940964 23  H. Ishibuchi and T. Yamamoto, “Rule weight specification in fuzzy rule-based classification systems IEEE Trans. on Fuzzy Systems vol 13, no. 4, pp. 428-435, August 2005. DOI: 10.1109/TFUZZ.2004 841738 24  H. Ishibuchi, K. Nozaki, and H. Tanaka, “Distributed representation of fuzzy rules and its application to pattern classification Fuzzy Sets and Systems vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 21-32, November 1992. DOI 10.1016/0165-0114\(92\90032-Y 25  J. Alcalá-Fdez, L. Sánchez, S. García, M. J. del Jesus, S. Ventura, J M. Garrell, J. Otero, C. Romero, J. Bacardit, V. M. Rivas, J. C Fernández, and F. Herrera, “KEEL: A software tool to assess evolutionary algorithms for data mining problems Soft Computing  vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 307-318, February 2009. DOI: 10.1007/s00500008-0323-y  70 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Architecture Server-1 Server-2 DB2 SURVDB XML Shredder WebSphere Message Broker Ext.4 H Ext.3 G Ext.2 F Ext.1 E C WebSphere MQ TCP/IP Live ASDI Stream IBM Cognos Server-3 IBM SPSS Modeler SPSS Collaboration Deployment Services 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Database Modeling Schemas for correlated ASDI messages translated into equivalent relational schemas  Database tables generated based on classes created from schema definitions  Nine main, eleven supporting tables  Each main table contains FLIGHT_KEY 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Database Modeling 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Correlation Process To archive received ASDI data  Track messages must be correlated with flight plan messages FLIGHT_KEY assigned Uncorrelated data tagged Approx 30 minutes to correlate one day of data 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Historical Data Processing To load correlated data  Uncompress, unmarshall  Create a list of files containing the correlated data  Write data to warehouse 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Live Data Processing Processed using IBM MQ IBM Message Broker and a technique called XML Shredding Message Broker Compute Nodes  Uncompress Node  Extract correlated messages  Shred Node adds to DB Stored Procedure “shreds XML docs and adds to tables 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Issues and Observations Initial load of one day of data ~ 7 hours Optimizations  Write data in batches  Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Deploy a higher performance machine  Use load instead of insert  Use DB2 Range-Partitioned tables  Database tunings Time reduced from 7 hours to approx 30 minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Original application created the SQL statement by appending elements to a Java String  It was taking five hours \(of the seven hours Strings  Instead Java StringBuilder used  Java Strings immutable  Time savings of 71.4 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Deployed on a higher-performance machine  Application ported from IBM Blade Center HS21 \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit dual-core Xeon 5130 processor to Dell M4500 computer \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit of quad-core Intel Core i7 processor  Reduced the time to thirty minutes Bulk loading instead of insert  Application was modified to write CSV files for each table  Entire day worth of data bulk loaded  Reduced the time to fifteen minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Range-Partitioned tables \(RPT  To limit the size of tables, the original code created multiple tables per table type  This puts burden on the application to query multiple tables when a range crosses several tables  With RPT, user is not required to make multiple queries when a range crosses a table boundary  Increased the time to thirty minutes  Additional fifteen minute cost per day of partitioning enabled time savings during queries 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Database tunings  Range periods changed from a week to a month  Automatic table space resizing changed from 32MB to 512KB  Buffer pool size decreased  Decreased the time to twenty minutes Overall, total time savings of 95.2 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  20 IBM Confidential Analytics Landscape Degree of Complexity Competitive Advantage Standard Reporting Ad hoc reporting Query/drill down Alerts Simulation Forecasting Predictive modeling Optimization What exactly is the problem What will happen next if What if these trends continue What could happen What actions are needed How many, how often, where What happened Stochastic Optimization Based on: Competing on Analytics, Davenport and Harris, 2007 Descriptive Prescriptive Predictive How can we achieve the best outcome How can we achieve the best outcome including the effects of variability Used with permission of IBM 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Initial Analysis Activities Flights departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving within a date and time range Flights between city pair A,B Flights between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a volume on a date. \(sector, center, etc boundary Flights passing through a volume within a date and time range Flights passing through an airspace volume in n-minute intervals All x-type aircraft departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving on a date between city pair A,B Flights departing or arriving on a date between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a named fix, airway, center, or sector Filed Flight plans for any of the above Actual departure, arrival times and actual track reports for any of the above 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial SPSS Applications Show all tracks by call sign 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case For a given Airspace Volume of Interest \(AVOI compute distinct traffic volume at some point in the future  Aim to alert on congestion due to flow control areas or weather if certain thresholds are exceeded  Prescribe solution \(if certain thresholds are exceeded Propose alternate flight paths  Use pre-built predictive model  SPSS Modeler performs data processing Counts relevant records in the database \(pattern discovery Computes traffic volume using statistical models on descriptive pattern Returns prediction with likelihood 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  24 Pulls in the TRACKINFO table of MAIN using SQL Limits the data to database entries which fall inside the AVOI Combines the SOURCE_DATE and SOURCE_TIME to a timestamp that can be understood by modeler Computes which time interval the database entry falls in. The time interval is 15 minutes Defines the target and input fields needed for creating the model Handles the creation of the model Produces a graph based off of the model results Final prediction 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Cognos BI Applications IBM Cognos Report Studio  Web application for creating reports  Can be tailored by date range, aircraft id, departure/arrival airport etc  Reports are available with links to visuals IBM Framework Manager  Used to create the data package  Meta-data modeling tool  Users can define data sources, and relationships among them Models can be exported to a package for use with Report Studio 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 1 of 3 Report shows the departure date, departure and arrival locations and hyperlinks to Google Map images DeparturePosition and ArrivalPosition are calculated data items formatted for use with Google Maps Map hyperlinks are also calculated based on the type of fix 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 2 of 3 DeparturePosition, Departure Map, ArrivalPosition and Arrival Map are calculated data items \(see departure items below DepartureLatitude DepartureLongitude DeparturePosition Departure Map 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 3 of 3 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Conclusion and Next Steps Current archive is 50 billion records and growing  Approximately 34 million elements per day  1GB/day Sheer volume of raw surveillance data makes analytics process very difficult The raw data runs through a series of processes before it can be used for analytics Next Steps  Continue application of predictive and prescriptive analytics  Big data visualization 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Questions and Comments Paul Comitz Boeing Research & Technology Chantilly, VA, 20151 office Paul.Comitz@boeing.com 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  31 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


