Environmental Spatio-temporal Ontology for the Linked Open Data Cloud  Ahsan Morshed Intelligent Sensing and Systems Laboratory, CSIRO Hobart Australia Ahsan.Morshed@csiro.au  Jagannath Aryal School of Geography Environmental Studies UTAS, Hobart, Australia jagannath.aryal@utas.edu.au  Ritaban Dutta Intelligent Sensing and Systems Laboratory CSIRO Hobart Australia 
Ritaban.Dutta@csiro.au      Abstract The rapid access of sensor technology provides both challenges and opportunities to authenticated spatiotemporal data. Authentication can be assured by developing related ontologies. Ontology explicitly specifies shared conceptualization and formal vocabularies. In this paper, we proposed an environmental spatio-temporal ontology \(ESTO using unified resource description framework \(RDF\nd Intelligent Environmental Knowledgebase i-EKbase  recommendation system. Five different environmental data sources namely SILO, AWAP, ASRIS, CosmOz, and MODIS 
were considered to develop i-EKbase where knowledge was integrated. The recommendation system was founded on web based large scale dynamic data mining, contextual knowledge extraction, and integrated knowledge representation. The proposed ESTO was tested for optimization of the accessibility and usability issues related to big data sets and minimize the overall application costs. RDF representation made this ontology very flexible to publish on Linked Open Data Cloud environment KeywordsÑ Metadata, RDF, Linked Open Data, i-EKbase, Spatiotemporal Ontology, ESTO. Introduction H EADING 1  I  
I NTRODUCTION  A  Linked open data, cloud computing and semantics Rapid access of sensor technology creates necessity of geographic information integration and sharing across distinct systems and designs. This is an important area in current issue of research on metadata and se mantic, which aims to enable Linked Open Data \(LOD\at is used to provide a seamless view of all information on the web Currently efforts to integrate geographic information embrace the idea of meta-data standards as the key to information sharing and analysis [8 T h ese in c l u d e t h e  initiatives of Federal Geographic Data committee \(FGDC National Spatial Data Infrastructure \(NSDI\, GeoSpatial OneStop and the US Geological Surveyês National Map as well as 
standards from the International Standards Organization \(ISO for geospatial metadata [9, 10, 11, 12   T h e NSD I att em pts to  bring together geographical information sources from all levels of government and other organizations into a single point of entry for easier access to data. Furthermore, W3C geospatial  ontology in 2007 provides vocabulary tags for modelling the geographic data in Ontology Web Language format \(OWL However, Geographic information-processing today faces two main problems, namely; barriers to information integration caused by incompatible terminology and a lack of interoperability among the available software [1, 6, 22   Furthermore, the current efforts lack consideration of large 
volume of environmental metadata and knowledge to build the knowledgebase on the web of data. In terms of completeness geospatial ontology has not been updated and it does not cover the information of users and origin of the data. Different sources of environmental sensor or model based data could be used to complement and cross validate each other automatically. This shows that there is a need for on demand complementary knowledge integration from multiple data sources and automatic interpretation of the knowledge [2, 21   B  Necessity of developing En vironmental Spatio- Temporal ontology In this study due to the necessity of environmental data modelling, çEnvironmental Spatio-Temporal Ontology ESTO\é was developed based on metadata integration for 
providing the one-stop service for building the application on the web. In this ontology, metadata from SILO [1 t h e  Australian Water Availability Project \(AWAP\14 t h e  Australian Soil Resource Information System \(ASRIS\1   the Australian Cosmic Ray Sensor Network \(CosmOz\[16  and MODerate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer MODIS\[17 w e re in clu de d T h is on t o l o g y is b ase d on  resource description framework \(RDF\at is given the feasibility to access information using the uniform resource identifier \(URI\, which is also programmatically machine readable [18    This paper is structured as follows. We start by providing the current efforts and initiatives in GIS for metadata standard We discuss the relevance of metadata ontology in 
environmental data accessibility instances and a need to develop a machine readable ESTO. The opportunities and challenges of developing ESTO and publishing on LOD are raised in science problem section. We present the concept of The authors would like to thank Intelligent Sensing and Systems Laboratory CSIRO University of Tasmania and the Tasmanian node of the Australian Centre for Broadband Innovation for funding this research project   
2013 12th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications 978-0-7695-5022-0/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/TrustCom.2013.279 1907 


ESTO and its backbone, the integrated Environmental Knowledge base \(i-EKbase\ncludi ng the storage of metadata and publishing on LOD. In section 5, we present the application of ESTO for associated data issues, for example sensor data quality assurance data usage optimization and context capturing from the users. The  applications of ESTO provide promising results and we conclude that the ESTO is a novel approach and can be extended in the specification and characterization of broad environmental metadata II  S CIENCE P ROBLEM  The underlying research challenge of this study was to extract the metadata from different sources and convert them into unified machine readable format, develop the ESTO in an integrated way and test its ro bustness. Fundamental issue behind this work was to design and develop a complex spatiotemporal ontology by processing multiple environmental data sources simultaneously. This ontology capture features, unify and build integrated knowledgebase in a meaningful way which could be used for future applications  F o r a n y gi v e n latitude longitude combination and time frame, five different data sources would be downloaded, all metadata would be preprocessed, and cross validated based on semantic technologies Finally this ESTO would be published on LOD to make the ontology highly accessible to the spatiotemporal data engineering and end users III  ENVIRONMENTAL META DATA  Five different environmental data sources were considered for the development of i-EKbase, namely, SILO, AWAP CosmOz, ASRIS, and MODIS \(see Figure 1\. Long Paddock SILO database is operated by the Queensland Climate Change Centre of Excellence \(QCCCE\ithin the Department of Science, Information Technology, Innovation and the Arts DSITIA\. The AWAP database is developed to monitor the state and trend of the terrestrial water balance of the Australian continent, using model-data fusion methods to combine both measurements and modelling. The ASRIS database provides online access to the best publicly available information on soil and land resources in a consistent format across Australia. The CosmOz database is a near-real time soil moisture measurement network providing neutron counts related to bulk soil moisture. MODIS database which includes data from Terra MODIS and Aqua MODIS satellites - viewing the entire Earth's surface every 1 to 2 days, acquiring data in 36 spectral bands, or groups is available via NASA website. Individual web data adaptors were created to access, download and integrate metadata sets automatically based on semantic metadata matching mechanism to create the ontology [13, 17   IV  D EVELOPMENT OF PROPOSED ESTO A  Concept of ESTO The concept of ESTO is to share the environmental attributes and complex knowledge on the web and to build other applications on the fly. Figure 1 shows the process of metadata extraction from different sources and then these metadata have been converted to RDF by using the wrapper functionality. The ESTO is com posed of integration of RDF files. Later, we published all the information on the web through HTTP access protocol Depending on the latitude and longitude of any given location, the nearest weather station from Bureau of Meteorology \(BOM\as selected. The corresponding SILO metadata file \(.txt format\ was then downloaded and processed CosmOz metadata \(.csv format\as also downloaded for the selected BOM weather station. AWAP database was connected through a secured FTP server and grid files including metadata files \(.NetCDF format\ere downloaded locally. ASRIS database was downloaded from publicly available ASRIS website. For the same location a pixel position was derived on the daily continental AWAP gridded data and time series were extracted for individual variable for a given time frame Similarly a pixel position was also calculated from ASRIS data to extract soil resource information for the same latitude and longitude \(.shp ESRI shapefile format\. MODIS images and metadata \(.HDF format\ere downloaded and processed [18 20      Fig.1  Concept of ESTO   B  Metadata Processing Metadata is çdata about the dataé and it provides the description of the what, where, who and how about the data For example, a sensor node m etadata could describe when and where the sensor node was deployed, who deployed that node which environmental attributes are being measured, what are the features or characteristics of that particular sensory system and finally the valid range of measurement that could be expected. However, metadata are generally used to describe the principal aspect of data with the aim of sharing, reusing, and understanding heterogeneous data sets. In fact, different types of sensor metadata may be considered, namely, static  and dynamic sensor metadata and associated sensing information 5  Static sensor metadata consists of information such as location, type, sensor platform etc, whereas dynamic metadata could be description of a significant data event,  a data service disruption, or dynamic data quality annotation information Without this metadata, many anomalies within the data sets are very hard to understand. If this metadata is available for comparison, it makes the data significantly easier to understand. The ultimate aim is to annotate the data with timely information about reliability, reusability and quality of 
1908 


the data without having to search.  Figure 2 shows the metadata processing in general. Metadata processing engine takes input from the data source such as D1, D2É, D5 in diverse formats and produces the final output as RDF. It plays as a black box processor which includes the following four steps Step 1:  Metadata extracted from D1 and select the standards vocabularies. In our case, SKOS, Geoname, SSN, Provenance vocabularies, etc were used Step 2: A mapping file has been created based on the mentioned vocabularies. Selected attributes suitable for ESTO were used Step 3: Extracted metadata has been mapped with the mapping properties by using the Jena API in Java programming.  The Jena is a semantic web framework used for reading and writing the RDF Step 4: Finally we get RDFD1 and store the data into the triplestore These steps were followed to convert all of the five different Meta data files to RDF format             Fig.2  Concept of ESTO  C  TripleStore Storage A triplestore is a framework used for storing and querying RDF data. It provides a mechan ism for persistent storage and access of RDF graphs e centl y  th ere h a s been a  m a j o r  development initiative in query processing, access protocols and triple-store technologies. The proposed Ontology was developed using a triple called Sesame triplestoreé. Sesame is an open source framework for storage inference and querying of RDF data. Sesame matches the features of Jena with the availability of a connection API, inference support for multiple back-ends like MySQL and Postgres. Integrated knowledge RDF files were uploaded into the triplestore which provided all facilities of browsing, querying, exporting data in different formats D  ESTO One of the major problems of spatiotemporal data is integration and sharing because of different semantics used in different data sources. To overcome this situation, it was required to integrate data that could be used for further applications. Figure 3 shows the process of RDF integration in ESTO. To achieve this goal, at first, we read the RDF files from a triple store for each observation, where data are stored in triple format. For instance we considered temperature for each sources for a specific location. We read a concept related to the daily local temperature from RDFD1 files and we found the string unit value Celsius and then we read the RDFD2 and we found the string unit value Fahrenheit. The semantic matcher based on string matching algorithm and dictionaries      compared two strings. If they did not match, the wordNet was    consulted to find the synonym of the particular string and found that these two strings were referred to the unit of temperature However, we also considered the skos: definition. In the integrated RDF output file, we kept the two data in our integrated RDF file with skos: notes which automatically included a conversion equation to harmonize all the temperature related data sources Environmental attributes were semantically matched to form several subgroups, i.e. {SILO Max Temperature \(degC SILO Min Temperature \(degC\WAP Max Temperature degC\, AWAP MinTemperature \(degC\, and MODIS/Terra Land Surface Temperature \(degC Optimized attempts were made to keep all the properties and stored into the triplestore so that it can be extended in the futu           Fig.3  RDF integration process   E  ESTO for CLOU D Computing On the semantic web, URIs identify not just web documents but also real-world objects like people, and cars and even abstract ideas and non-existing things like a mythical unicorn A single URI presents RDF data and human readable HTML pages. Intuitively, it looks like web pages but it contains the data which can be down-loaded through the HTTP access   
1909 


ESTO on the web presented the metadata information hasMaxTSILOé with the URI http://csiro.au/metadata/hasMaxTSILO Similarly other metadata were presented by navigating the URIs. This web metadata can be used for modeling or publishing the environmental data on the data cloud and further cloud computing purposes.  The Pubby - a Linked Data publishing tool from the SPARQL endpoint was used to publish ESTO on the web to make it accessible for computational applications. This Spatiotemporal Ontology could be downloaded dynamically as turtle or in RDF format Figure 4\(a\ shows the RDF representation of the ESTO whereas 4\(b\ows the interface representation of ESTO on the web              Fig.4 \(a\DF representation of ESTO                  Fig.4 \(b\ :Interface representing ESTO published on LOD   The web of data is increasing rapidly and the cloud diagram has doubled comparing to the previous model. It has been expanded in different domains such as medical, life science, agriculture, geoname etc. Nevertheless, it is important to consider the geoname at the primary stage to hook up the dataset in sensor domain  F  ESTO On LOD with  Live Environmental Data RDF representation made this Ontology very flexible to publish on Linked Open Data cloud. The main purpose of the LOD was to make people connec ted through data on the web where people can share, reuse the knowledge very easily. The term Linked Open Data was introduced by Tim Berners-Lee in his Linked Open data no T h e URIs w e re pri m ar y  ke y  like relational database and by using these URIs, it was possible to identify the object or concept. RDF is generalpurposes language for data representation on the web. The basic principle of Linked Open Data is described in the following ways  Use URIs as names for resource  Use HTTP URIs so that people can look up those names  When someone looks up a URI, provide useful information, using the standards \(RDF, SPARQL  Interlinks to other URIs, such that they can generate more dynamic knowledge  In i-EKbase every piece of metadata was decomposed into triples \(subject, object and predicate\ned with a unique URI for each resource or object. These resources or objects are connected with other resources from different data sources Fig. 5 shows a sensor cloud node located at Benlomond Tasmania which has an exact match from the geonames data sources. Neverth eless, it is important to consider the geoname at the primary stage to hook up the environmental datasets into the sensor domain in the cloud In ou r  experiment, we ran a java script to automatically pullout mapping links from geonames data source and populate the required sub sets of Metadata. 21 exact matches were found based on sensor node locations. All these information were integrated into the LOD version of the i-Ekbase for CLOUD computing applications [23, 24, 25, 26  V  APPLICATION OF ESTO A  Sensor Cloud Computing One of the applications of ESTO is a plug and play role on the cloud computing for offering vast computing resources and providing complete visibilit y and transparency to these resources. Environmental sensor data such as temperature rainfall etc. can be represented using ETSOês metadata Furthermore, it can play as a hub of sensor knowledge where one can see the metadata definition on the run-time by using a URI on the web, which can also be adapted to build their applications B  Sensor Data Quality Assurance One of the applications of ESTO is sensor data quality assurance using Linked data appr oach. The ESTO can be used as background knowledge for onto logy matching.  ESTO could be used to identify errors within the spatiotemporal data sources, annotate the quality of the sensor observations and for trust calculation. The important aspect of ESTO is that it could be used for multiple source data quality assurance as this Ontology captures five diff erent environmental metadata sources. Furthermore, ESTO is also includes the origin of the data. This Ontology could also be used to filter invalid data   
1910 


C  Complementary Context Capturing Context is çthaté which surrounds and gives meaning to something else. It describes the s ituation and the environment                         On the basis of contextual requirement of an environmental attribute which would be used in an application complementary data could be extracted by using ESTO. While daily rainfall data from SILO is not available for a specific location and time period, rain data could still be made available from AWAP or MODIS resource products as complementing metadata is available in ESTO. It can be captured through the ESTO ontology by minimizing the information D  Big Data Usage Optimization Accessing big data for knowledge engineering is a serious problem and there is a need to optimize the usage of data to reduce the computational costs. ESTO represents an Ontology which includes massive amount of metadata about significantly large variety of observation data from environmental sensory sources. Environmental and agricultural application could be designed using ESTO as a recommendation. Ontology could guide the designers the potential data attributes and th eir practical limitations or advantages even before the big data would be accessed Ontology based information could help to minimize the cost function of a particular application VI  CONCLUSION  The main achievement of this paper is to develop the ESTO from the different data sources. Furthermore, we have                             also shown the ESTO in Linked Open Data format for different applications. Despite this we are aware of central problem within the context of Linked Open Data to identify correspondences between instance s from different sources. As future work, we plan to devel op more sophisticated ontologies aimed at obtaining 100% precision by minimizing human effort References  1 Y. Bishr,  Ov erco m i n g th e se ma n t ic an d o t h e r b a rriers to G I S interoperability International Journal of Geographical Information Science 12, 299Ö314, 1998  2 C. Bize r, T  H eath   T  Bern er s-Lee, Linked data - the story so far International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems  IJSWIS 5\(3\, 1-22, 2009  3  Bern ersL ee L i n k ed Da ta http://www.w3.org/DesignIss ues/LinkedData.html. 2012  4 J Bro ek stra A  Ka m p man  an d F. v a n Ha r m elen Sesa me  A  Generic Architecture for Storing and Querying RDF and RDF Schema, The Semantic Web - ISWC 2002: First International Semantic Web Conference \(p. 54-68\. Sardinia, Italy: Springer Berlin / Heidelberg    Fig. 5: Example of accessing and publishing Metadata for ESTO with live environmental data 
1911 


5 A  Br  rin g  K. Ja n o w icz C. Stasch an d W  Kuh n Sem a n t ic Challenges for Sensor Plug and Play. In Proceedings of Web Wireless Geographical Information Systems, W2GIS 2009 Maynooth, Ireland, December 2009  6  M. D u c k ha m a nd M. W o r boy s  A n a l g e br a i c a ppr oa c h t o  automated geospatial information fusion International Journal of Geographical Information Science 19, 537Ö557, 2005  7 G i unc h ig lia   P Shv a ik o and M. Yatskevich, S-Match: an algorithm and an implementation of semantic matching. In: C.J Bussler, J. Davies, D. Fensel, R Studer, \(eds.\SWS, Springer Heidelberg, LNCS, vol. 3053:61-75, 2004  8 ht tp www  w hite house  g o v site s/de f a u lt/f ile s/o m b eg ov dig ita l government/digital-government.html, 2012  9  http  ww w fg d c  g o v  m e t a da ta/c s d g m    2012   10 http://www.fgdc.gov/nsdi/policyandplanning/nsdi-strategicplans, 2012  11 h t tp   www d ata.go v abo u t   2 0 1 2  12 h t tp   g eo lo g y u sg s.g o v to o ls/m et ad ata/to o ls d o c ctc   2 0 1 2   13  h t tp   www lo n g p ad d o ck q l d g o v au silo   2 0 1 2   14 http  ww w e oc csiro.a u/aw a p  2012   15 h t tp   www er m t.csiro au  h t m l co s m o z.h t m l   2 0 1 2    16 h t tp   www asris.csiro au  in d e x _ o t h e r.h t m l  2 0 1 2   1 h t t p   m o d i s  gs f c  n as a go v   2 01 2  18 h t tp   www  w 3  o r g  T R/REC rd f s y n t a x  2 0 1 2  19  Y. Kal f o g lo u M. Sch o rlem m e r Onto l o g y  m a p p i n g th e state  of the art The knowledge engineering review 18\(1\, 1-31, 2003                         20 A  She t h,  C  H e ns on, S. S a hoo, Se m a nt ic Se ns or W e b, I E E E  Internet Computing, July/August 2008, p.78-83  2 P. Sh v a iko  J. Eu zen at, Onto l o g y Matchin g  State o f th e A r t  and Future Challenges IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 25\(1\, 158-176, 2013  22  S. W i n ter, Ont o lo g y Buzz w o rd o r p a rad i gm shi f t in G I sc ienc e   International Journal of Geographical Information Science 15 587Ö590, 2001  2  Mo rsh ed  C.Caraccio l o  G  Joh a nn sen  a n d J.Keizer. T h esau ru s alignment for linked data publishing In International Conference on Dublin Core and Metadata Applications, pp. 3746. 2011  24 A  Mo rshed  R.Du tta an d J A r y a l. Re co mmen d in g  Environmental Knowledge As Linked Open Data Cloud Using Semantic Machine Learning. In the Proceedings of 29th IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, pp 27-28, April 2013, Brisbane, Australia   25 R.Du tta, J.A r y al A  Mo rshed In tellig e n t E n v iro n m en tal Knowledge System for Sustainable Water Resource Management Solution, Accepted in 16th AGILE International  Conference on Geographic Information Science, Leuven Belgium   2 A  Mo rshed  P e rf o r mance Evaluation of South Esk Hydrological Sensor Web: Using Unsupervised Machine Learning and Semantic Linked Data Approach Accepted in Special Issue of IEEE Sensor Journal, on Internet of Things Architecture, Protocols and Services, April 2013  27 A  Mo rshed R  Dutta Mach ine Learning Based Vocabulary Management Tool Assessment for the Linked Open Data International Journal for Compu ter Applications, Volume 60Number 9, pages 51-58, DOI:10.5120/9724-4197,2012  
1912 


of the clusters revealed that PSCAN identiìes two users of a cluster although there is no direct follower/following relation exists but sharing some common interests Such capability of PSCAN helped us to nd users from a city an organization or a country It is not feasible to discuss all the clusters here one of the interesting clusters is a cluster representing twitter pages of BBC weather channel and weather alerts The cluster of 20 members all representing BBC weather related pages is found There are many such clusters that represents a group of users who share some common interests There is no base line of communities in Twitter to measure accuracy of the clustering but our manual observations found the accuracy is signiìcant Moreover the experiment is designed to prove the feasibility of SCAN in MapReduce framework because SCAN is proved to be accurate enough for clustering The experiment on Twitter data proved the accuracy and scalability of PSCAN V C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK We present a parallel structural clustering algorithm PSCAN for big networks in MapReduce in this paper PSCAN identiìes clusters as well as vertices playing critical roles such as outliers and hubs in big networks with billions of edges in three steps namely calculating structural similarity of edges cutting off edges with low structural similarity and nding connected components All the steps can be executed in parallel in MapReduce The time complexity of PSCAN is linear with the number of edges in the graph Our empirical evaluation demonstrated an accurate clustering result and an excellent running time in terms of scaleup sizeup and speedup Moreover we applied PSCAN for analysis of a Twitter social network with over 40 million users and 1.4 billions of follower/following relationships The result shows that PSCAN can nd interesting communities of people sharing common interests or other features In the future we plan to further investigate the performance of PSCAN by applying it for the analysis of some really big networks in real world A CKNOWLEDGMENT This project was funded by Acxiom Corporation The authors are grateful for invaluable collaboration with Kevin Liles and Derek Leonard throughout the project This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant CRI CNS-0855248 Grant EPS-0701890 Grant EPS-0918970 Grant MRI CNS-0619069 and OISE0729792 Weizhong Zhao would like to thank the support of the National Natural Science Foundation of China No 61105052 R EFERENCES  A Lancichinetti S F ortunato and F  Radicchi 
 Physical Review E 78 046110 2008  S Y ook H Jeong and A Barabasi  In PNAS Proceedings of the National Academy of Science pages 13382-13386 October 2002  L Hubert and P  Arabie  Journal of Classiìcation 193C 218 1985  A Strehl J Ghosh R Moone y   Proceedings of the workshop on artiìcial intelligence for web search pp 58-64 2000  X.Xu N.Y uruk Z Feng T  Schweiger  Proceedings of the 13th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining pp 824-833 2007  Bin W u Y aHong Du  2010 International Conference on Artiìcial Intelligence and Computational Intelligence AICI vol.3 no pp.122-126 23-24 Oct 2010  Usha Nandini Ragha v an Rka Albert and Soundar K umara  Phys Rev E 76 036106 2007  M E J Ne wman and M Girv an  Phys Rev E 69 026113 2004  Jimmy Lin and Chris Dyer   Morgan and Claypool Publishers 2010 pp 94-101  Santo F ortunato  Physics Reports Volume 486 Issues 35 February 2010 Pages 75-174 ISSN 0370-1573 10.1016/j.physrep.2009.11.002  Jia wei Han Micheline Kamber  and Jian Pei  3rd edition Morgan Kaufmann 2011  B.W  K ernighan S Lin  Bell Syst Tech J 49 1970 291307  J Shi J Malik  IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell 22 8 2000 888905  U Brandes D Delling M Gaertler  R G  orke M Hoefer Z Nikolski D Wagner  URL http://digbib ubka.unikarlsruhe.de/volltexte/documents/3255  A Clauset M.E.J Ne wman C Moore  Phys Rev E 70 6 2004 066111  G P alla I Der  enyi I Farkas T Vicsek  Nature 435 2005 814818  Martin Ester  Hans-Peter Krie gel J  org Sander Xiaowei Xu  Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD-96 AAAI Press pp 226231 ISBN 1-57735004-9 
Benchmark graphs for testing community detection algorithms Modeling the internetês large scale topology Comparing partitions Impact of similarity measures on web-page clustering SCAN a structural clustering algorithm for networks Cloud-based Connected Component Algorithm Near linear time algorithm to detect community structures in large-scale networks Finding and evaluating community structure in networks Data-Intensive Text Processing with MapReduce Community detection in graphs Data Mining Concepts and Techniques An efìcient heuristic procedure for partitioning graphs Normalized cuts and image segmentation On modularity npcompleteness and beyond Finding community structure in very large networks Uncovering the overlapping community structure of complex networks in nature and society A density-based algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial databases with noise 
868 


 Akshay U Bhat  http://www.akshaybhat.com/LPMR 2008  Hae w oon Kw ak Changhyun Lee Hosung P ark and Sue Moon  WWW 2010 April 2630 2010 
Scalable Community Detection using Label Propagation  Map-Reduce What is Twitter a Social Network or a News Media 
869 


state of innovation stakeholder  node PQ It  s a balanced node Based on this, we could calculate the  node PQ Calculation process is: set different inn ovation stakeholders state i U  and j U Value of ij 000T can be get from  innovation time difference. Innovation stakeholdersí social effect and industrial effect can be obtained upon ij B  and ij G set according to relation between innovation stakeholders  Model 4.1 points out  that the value of Gij  directly affects social benefits and sector benefits. Large Gij  can lead to increasing benefits of the entire industry and the entire social growth Bij reflects big organizationís impact on businesses. Only strengthening the inter agent association within big organization and enhancing the str ategic partnership between enterprises can jointly promote the development of the entire industry, and bring more social benefits, so that each agent can be improved   5 Summary This paper puts forward the concept of the big organization based on the CSM t heory. It introduces the basic implication of the big organization and theoretical framework of the big organization including: the big organization's perspective  overall perspective, dynamic perspective, and new resource perspective; the big organizat ionís sense  the purpose of the organizational structure is innovation, organizational activities around the flow of information, breaking the traditional organizational structure, encouraging self run structure, and blurring organizational boundaries; the big organizationís platform  the platform ecosystem of the big organization ; the big organizationís operation mode  borderless learning mode, and cluster effect; the big organizationís theory  active management theory  leading consumers, and culture  entropy reduction theory  negative culture entropy and humanistic ecology theory  inspiring humanity, and circuit theory  a virtuous circle, and collaborative innovation theory  collaborative innovation stakeholder. This paper also discusses culture entropy reduction theory of the big organization  negative culture entropy, and coordinated innovation theory  innovation stakeholders collaboration. Culture entropy change model and collaborative in novation model are constructed   The research has just begun for the big organization. It also needs further improvement but remains the trend of the times   Reference  1  Gordon Pellegrinetti, Joseph Bentsman. Nonlinear Control Oriented Boiler Modeling A Benchmark Problem for Controller De sign [J  I E E E tr a n s a c tio n s o n c o n tr o l s y s te m s te c h n o lo g y 2 0 1 0  4 1\57 65  2  Klaus Kruger, Rudiger Franke, Manfred Rode Optimization of boiler start up using a nonlinear 457 


boiler model and hard constraints [J  E n e r gy 201 1 29   22 39 2251  3  K.L.Lo, Y.Rathamarit  State estimation of a boiler model using the unscented Kalman filter [J  I E T  Gener. Transm. Distrib.2008 2 6\917 931  4  Un Chul Moon, Kwang. Y.Lee. Step resonse model development for dynamic matrix control of a drum type boiler turbine system [J IE E E  T ra nsactions on Energy Conversion.2009 24 2\:423 431  5  Hacene Habbi, Mimoun Zelmat, Belkacem Ould Bouamama. A dynamic fuzzy model for a drum boiler turbine system [J  A u to m a tic a 2 0 0 9 39:1213 1219  6  Beaudreau B C. Identity, entropy and culture J   J o ur na l  o f  economic psychology, 2006, 27\(2 205 223  7  YANG M, CHEN L. Information Technique and the Entropy of Culture J  A cad e m i c E x ch a n g e  2006, 7: 048  8  ZHANG Zhi feng. Research on entropy change model for enterprise system based on dissipative structure J  Ind ustrial  Engineering and  Management 2007, 12\(1\ :15 19  9  LI Zhi qiang, LIU Chun mei Research on the Entropy Change Model for Entrepreneurs' Creative Behavior System Based on Dissipative Structure J  C h i n a S of t S c i e n c e  2009   8  1 62 166   458 


A Global Solution COVERAGE North and South America EMEA and Asia White lines are flights in the masFlight platform from February 8, 2013 Yellow pins are weather stations feeding hour ly data to our platform Maps from Google Earth / masFlight masFlight tracks flights, airports and weather around the world  Global daily flight information capture  82,000 flights  350 airlines  1700 airports  Integrated weather data for 6,000 stations  Match weather to delays  Validate block forecasts at granular level  Add weather analytics to IRROPS review and scenario planning 


Example 1: Proposed FAA Tower Closures masFlight used big-data to link airport operations across three large data sets  Current and historical airline schedules  Raw Aircraft Situation Display to Industry \(ASDI\AA  Enhanced Traffic Management System Counts \(ETMS\Airport operations counts by type \(commercial, freight, etc TOWER CLOSINGS Dots indicate closures; Red dots have scheduled service Based on scheduled service March 1 7, 20 13; scheduled service includes scheduled charter flights, cargo flig hts, and passenger flights Dots  indicate  closures  Red  dots  have  scheduled  service Bas ed  o n sc h edu l ed  se rvi ce  M a r c h 1  7, 2013; scheduled se rvi ce includ es scheduled c harter fli g hts car g o fli g hts a nd passen g er fli g hts Findings: Proposed Tower Closings  From schedules database: 55 airports with scheduled passenger airline service  14 EAS Airports  From ASDI & ETMS: 10,600 weekly flights on a flight plan \(ex. VFR and local traffic  6,500 Part 91/125 weekly flights  4,100 Part 135/121 weekly flights  


Example 1: Big-Data Analytics Applied to ASDI and ETMS To Analyze Operations TOWER CLOSINGS  26 44 24 23 11 10 6 2 1 2 Up to 5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 40-45 45 Count of Airports Average Number of Daily Operations with a Flight Plan Filed Distribution of Airports By Average Number of ìDailyî Impacted Flights Airports Affected by Tower Closures Source: ASDI radar data ñ Part 91 151 flying and Part 135/121 flying March 1-7, 2013; masFlight analysis Note: Average ìdailyì operations based on 5-day week 


Example 2: Aviation Safety Causal Factor For example, consider the following ASRS report \(ACN 1031837 Departing IAH in a 737-800 at about 17,000 FT, 11 m iles behind a 737-900 on the Junction departure over CUZZZ Intersection. Smooth air with wind on the nose bearing 275 degrees at 18 KTS We were suddenly in moderate chop which lasted 4 or 5 seconds then stopped and then resumed for another 4 or 5 seconds with a significant amount of ri ght rollingÖ I selected a max rate climb mode in the FMC in order to climb above the wake and flight path of the leading -900 We asked ATC for the type ahead of us and reported the wake encounter. The 900 was about 3,300 FT higher than we were  Synopsis  B737-800 First Officer reported wake encounter from preceding B737-900 with resultant roll and moderate chop What causal factors can be identified from this narrative that could be applied to future predictive applications CAUSAL FACTORS Data-mining algorithms can mine the text of safety reports to obtain specific data that can be used to analyze causal factors  


Example 2: Identifying Causal Factors CAUSAL FACTORS  Indicators ñ Data Element Methods ñ Identifying Context and Causes  Time of day  Date range \(month day  Aircraft type  Fix or coordinates  Originating airport  Destination airport  Weather notes We pinpoint the sequencing of flights on the IAH Junction Seven departure \(at CUZZZ\the specified wind conditions to find cases wher e a B737-900 at 20,000 feet precedes by 11 miles a B737-800 at 17,000 feet  Search related data sets including ASDI flight tracks, local traffic and congestion  Weather conditions for alter native causes \(winds aloft shear and convecti ve activity  Airline specific informati on \(repeated occurrence of event in aircraft type Big data gives us visibility into contextual factors even if specific data points are missing such as a specific date or route Big-data analytics gives us insight into unreported factors as well 


Example 3: Correlating Utilization and Delays  60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 7 9 11 13 ONTIME DEPARTURE PERFORMANCE HOURS OF DAILY UTILIZATION 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 7.0 9.0 11.0 13.0 Narrowbodies By Day of Week 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 7.0 9.0 11.0 13.0 Widebodies by Day of Week Daily Utilization vs. On-time Departures January 2013 System Operations Correlation Coefficient -0.53 Includes AA, AC, AS B6 F9, FL, NK, UA, US VX and WN SOURCE masFlight \(masflight.com COMPARING OTP AND UTILIZATION 


 6.2 6.0 5.8 5.8 5.2 4.9 LGB JFK BOS MCO DCA FLL JetBlue Focus Average Daily Deps per Gate Used UTILIZATION BY HUB Example 4: Daily Utilization of Gates, by Hub Big-data analysis of different carriers daily departures per gate used SOURCE masFlight \(masflight.com June 1 through August 31, 2012 Gates with minimum 1x daily use 7.7 7.4 7.2 6.2 6.1 5.8 3.8 3.6 ORD LAX SFO EWR DEN IAH IAD CLE United Airlines Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.8 6.4 5.5 5.4 5.3 4.4 4.3 4.0 SEA SAN PDX ANC SFO GEG LAX SJC Alaska Airlines Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.2 6.9 6.8 6.4 5.0 2.7 ORD DFW LAX LGA MIA JFK American Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.2 6.9 6.6 4.9 4.2 CLT DCA PHL PHX BOS US Airways Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 6.6 5.9 5.5 4.7 MCO BWI ATL MKE AirTran Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used ne pe 


Conclusions for Big Data in Aviation  Big-data transforms operational and commercial problems that were practically unsolvable using discrete data and on-premises hardware  Big data offers new insight into existing data by centralizing data acquisition and consolidation in the cloud and mining data sets efficiently  There is a rich portfolio of information that can feed aviation data analytics  Flight position, schedules, airport/gate, weather and government data sets offer incredible insight into the underlying causes of aviation inefficiency  Excessive size of each set forces analysts to consider cloud based architectures to store, link and mine the underlying information  When structured, validated and linked these data sources become significantly more compelling for applied research than they are individually  Todayís cloud based technologies offer a solution CONCLUSIONS 


Conclusions:  Our Approach  masFlightís data warehouse and analysis methods provide a valuable example for others attempting to solve cloud based analytics of aviation data sets  masFlightís hybrid architecture, consolidating secure data feeds in on-premises server installations and feeding structured data into the cloud for distribution, addresses the unique format, security and scale requirements of the industry  masFlightís method is well suited for airline performance review competitive benchmarking, airport operations and schedule design and has demonstrated value in addressing real-world problems in airline and airport operations as well as government applications CONCLUSIONS 





