On Mixing High-Speed Updates and In-Memory Queries A Big-Data Architecture for Real-time Analytics Tao Zhong Kshitij A Doshi Xi Tang Ting Lou Zhongyan Lu Hong Li Software and Services Group, Intel tao.t.zhong, kshitij.a.doshi, xi.tang, ting.lou, zhongyan.lu, hong.li}@intel.com Abstract Up-to-date business intelligence has become a critical differentiator for the modern data-driven highly engaged enterprise. It requires rapid integration of new information on a continuous basis for subsequent analyses. ETL-based and traditionally batch-processing oriented methods of absorbing changes into a relational database schema take time, and are therefore incompatible with very low-latency demands of realtime analytics. Instead in-memory clustered stores that employ tunable consistency mechanisms are becoming attractive since they dispense with the need to transform and transit data between storage layouts and tiers When data is updated infrequently, in-memory approaches such as RDD transformations in Spark can suffice, but as updates become frequent, such in-memory approaches need to be extended to support dynamic datasets. This paper describes a few key additional requirements that result from having to support in-memory processing of data while updates proceed concurrently. The paper describes Real-time Analytics Foundation  RAF\ an architecture to meet the new requirements Performance of an early implementation of RAF is also described for an unaudited TPC-H derived workload, RAF shows a nodeto-node scaling ratio of 88% at 8 nodes, and for a query equivalent to Q6 in the TPC-H set, RAF is able to show 9x improvement over that of Hive-Hadoop. The paper also describes two RAF based solutions that are being put together by two independent software vendors in China Index Terms Big Data, Real-time, Low-latency, Analytics Resilient Distributed Datasets, CRUD, Clustering I  I NTRODUCTION  Operational analytics enable a company or an organization to analyze data from its day to day operations, including up to the minute transactions, so that it may act upon findings instantly. It is gaining momentum as institutions and individuals become pervasively data driven in all spheres of life. In addition to capitalizing upon well-catalogued historical knowledge, establishments are turning towards just-in-time analysis of information in motion that may just be seconds old and not yet well categorized or linked to other data. A few examples of value from operational analytics follow   GPS-based navigation equipped with a static information base of road networks is a great modern convenience. Add instantaneous analysis of traffic conditions and it can guide motorists away or out of traffic logjams, to reduce wasted energy, accidents, delays and emergencies   A credit card company may use instantaneous correlation between a user’s transactions in order to detect and intercept suspicious transactions – such as, a transaction that breaks a pattern, or issues from a merchant that is too far away from the location of a recent transaction   A metropolitan or regional power grid which processes millions of sensor readings every second to modulate power generation, perform load-balancing, direct repair actions and take policy enforcement step s. In addition to triggering immediate reactive actions, the data may also be used in long range capacity planning An essential feature in the above examples is the need to integrate new transactions into analysis results within a very short time—sometimes as short as a few tens of milliseconds A second feature is the need to complete analysis queries quickly. Producing answers swiftly requires parallel execution of queries and agile sharing of information across parallel tasks. To keep pace with the growth of processing demand and that in the volume of content to be analyzed, organizations have increasingly embraced scale-out clusters \(Hadoop HBas P P databas es 9 etc h ere m o re m a c h in e s c a n  be added readily in order to boost throughput and capacity High latencies can make these clusters less suitable for operational analytics: transforming data between block format and in-memory formats, paging, and sharing via a distributed file system such as HDFS g an al y s i s   To slash latencies by orders of magnitude, Spark P  Ve d sev e ral oth e r in itiati v e s [10],[1 5 7] p r op o s e  maintaining data in memory \(instead of demand paging it from disk\oting that rising capacities and dropping DRAM costs have made in-memory solutions practical in recent years. This paper identifies additional capabilities that are needed to blend in-memory data processing between transactional and analytic activities into a seamless whole. The resilient distributed datasets \(RDDs\ Spark a k e i n m e m or y  s o l u t i on s l e s s  failure prone. In an architecture that we call Real-time Analytics Foundation \(RAF\e propose enhancing the RDD approach so that resiliency is blended with a few additional characteristics listed next   Efficient allocation and control of memory resources   Resilient update of information at much finer resolution   Flexible and highly efficient concurrency control   Replication and partitioning of data transparent to clients Architecturally RAF elevates memory across an entire cluster to a first class storage entity and defines high level mechanisms by which applications on RAF can orchestrate distributed actions upon objects stored in cluster memory. By merging distributed memory and distributed computing, RAF delivers a platform on which applications designed for optimized in-memory execution can be distributed easily Services that expose REST interfaces, Create-RetrieveUpdate-Delete \(CRUD\terfaces, SQL-like interfaces, or other object access methods for items which are in their inmemory formats can be created readily on top of RAF. To promote responsible and transparent use of memory, RAF opts to use a programming language such as C, C++, over mixed language environments in which garbage allocation is opaque as a general rule The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 sets out the motivation, explaining the requirements and how current solutions compare in delivering low-latency analytics. Section 3 then describes the overall architecture and implementation highlights that are the distinctive aspects of the solution Performance of the current implementation is then brought out in section 4. Section 4 also describes two end user scenarios in which this approach is applied to meet the unique demands Section 5 describes continuing and future work, and section 6 concludes  II  M OTIVATION AND B ACKGROUND  Data has a lot of value when mined. By analyzing an enduser’s recent browsing history, an artificial intelligence system 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data 102 978-1-4799-1293-3/13/$31.00 ©2013  IEEE 


such as GoogleNow can automatically determine viewing preferences and push selections at him/her without explicit requests being made. A manufacturer or a retailer can extract and correlate consumer information streaming in from shopping outlets and use it in order to group and price products for a mix of high turnover and profitability. Smart deployment of police and ambulance services based on an analysis of traffic patterns can save lives during emergencies This understanding, that data has value, has led to the practice of mining it at the point of generation, for example by subjecting it to streaming analytics. SQLstream[13 in  effect runs queries on streams rather than on previously captured and ETL’ed data. However, as data continues to compound at brisk rates, institutions need to grapple with two broad demands – \(a\lating, processing, synopsizing and utilizing information in a timely manner, and \(b\ng the refined data resiliently, and keeping it accessible at high speed. Recognizing that large scale parallelism is critical and that the storage and computational capacities of single node multi-core systems quickly limit a solution, recent years have seen the emergence of softer-consistency, non-relational cluster-based approaches for data processing described collectively as Big Data The term Big Data itself is elastic and serves well as a description of the scale or volume of these solutions, but does not define a constraining principle for organizing storage or orchestrating processing. It is therefore useful to outline a few requirements for low-latency and high throughput analytics on datasets that are also subject to nontrivial volumes of updates 1  In-memory structures and storage As the complexity of queries increases, it becomes necessary not just to keep larger amounts of data in memory for avoiding disk latencies, but also to use data processing techniques that avoid having to marshal pointer linked and deeply nested structures between one software module and another particularly when the modules are sharing data on the same node  2  Resiliency At the same time, it is obviously critical that data that must survive abrupt restarts of individual nodes is replicated across nodes and between storage tiers, in a timely fashion  3  Sharing data through memory Passing data by reference should be supported efficiently so that needless copying can be avoided. A module that produces data should be able to collaborate with a module that consumes data without the overhead of data copying, marshaling, and that of superfluous allocation or deallocation. Furthermore, it is important that modules that can form a chain of processing are able to operate on data flowing from a previous stage of processing into a next stage of processing while the output of the previous stage is in memory  4  Uniform interaction with storage Some systems designed for in-memory analytics split transactional object management from that for the analytics subsystem. Most systems mandate differing data storage and processing formats.  Due to the resulting fragmentation of formats developers and end users face the danger of being locked into specific approaches that later fail to meet shifting demands. At the same time, it is necessary to grapple with resilience questions that arise with distribution, and naming and storing of data that is not limited to a single “native format  In a nutshell, solutions need to be interoperable and scalable across multiple hardware platforms and software environments. The resulting impetus for OpenStack a s  identified the need to move away from centralized databases and towards distributed object storage with object granular capabilities for locating, replicating, and migrating contents see figure 1\To meet these objectives in concert with requirement #1, objects stored in memory should be interoperable, relocatable, replicable in the same way that objects are placed in a block storage medium  5  Minimizing memory recycling Garbage collected language runtimes \(such as Java\popular in many Big Data implementations liberate programmers from having to manage memory explicitly. However, the lack of direct control over memory deallocation can lead to performance overhead of garbage collection and cause problems such as long stalls during a stop-the-world garbage collection. More explicit memory management such as that in C and C++ is desirable from the standpoint of ensuring high performance  6  Efficient integration of CRUD: In an operational analytics solution, it is important to be able to make small updates on a continuous basis, than to have to buffer up many changes and risk a long latency and resource intensive merging of those changes into the source from time to time. We borrow the acronym CRUD Create/ Retrieve/ Update/ Delete\rom  e r su ccin ctl y to t w o c a pabilities: \(a w r iter s perf orm their updates atomically at a granularity consistent with an application’s data model, and \(b\ have a stable consistent view of the dataset. To minimize overhead and maximize concurrency, it is essential to support efficient CRUD operations on memory as well as disk versions of a dataset which is simultaneously accessed for analytics queries. In effect, without burdening the application logic the datastore should provide a logically versioned view in which writers update contents granularity finer than that of a full dataset  7  Synchronizing efficiently Having to wait for milliseconds in order to achieve serialized execution across a cluster negates much of the benefit of in-memory processing. If synchronization is lock-based, then it requires distributed deadlock detection and guarding against node failures. While partitioning of data across nodes can mitigate distributed synchronization, local synchronization within a node can also be a serious performance inhibitor. Given the need for large scale concurrency—within and across nodes, it is essential to choose processing approaches that are implicitly data parallel  8  Searching Efficiently Many NoSQL solutions, particularly key-value stores that are available today sort records for  Figure 1: reproduced from 103 


efficient searches based on record keys E also needs to be available across non-key a Many a distributed data processing altern a in the past decade to displace some p r database based solution. Several in-mem o systems such as   a v e s i m i l a rl y  alternatives or as complementary approac h relational databases. Let us briefly note the areas of improvement, among these fou r solutions that are very popular today— S Coheren e dis 10], an d Me m cac h e d[5 Spark introduces an innovative distributed that is particularly well suited to large scale A complex analysis task is decomposed i n transformations, scheduled such that dataset s transformation are used in another transfor m need to force the datasets out of memory i n however dataset oriented in that it is not we l on a single record based on a record’s ke y small granularity updates into transformati o popular due to its performance and ANSI C rich data types and consistency guara n distributed framework for assembling c computations. A single threaded mod e aggregation performance. Oracle Cohere n commercial data grid solution with high scalability, rich data processing model transactions. That it is implemented in J a garbage collection inefficiencies. And its q constrained to filtering and to computing ag g MAX, MIN and several others. Memc a stability and simplicity, is widely used for o that simplicity also precludes creating c o software – which limits the use of Memcac h b ackend assist for use in accelerating web section discusses how to build upon the str e some of the soft spots of the current popula r to better address the needs outlined in this s e III  A RCHITECTURAL C ONCEPTS AND I MP L H IGHLIGHTS  The framework targets common user s c complex queries need to be conducted at v Information upon which the queries operat e on some storage medium or generated dyn a as a result of ongoing transactional activiti we translate the eight requirements articulat e five design elements: \(a\ and C++ base d efficient sharing of data through memory b of new content, \(c\ Efficient concurrenc y information in motion, and \(e\eneral Transactional and analytic applications r u end-user clients interact with these services that abstract away the details of how obje c cached, stored, replicated, partitioned, an d clients.  For these applications, the RAF p ro v computing environment. The distrib u environment is integrated with a memory-c e storage system; that is, one application can p to another in order to share data in memo r without first having to serialize or deseriali z to file systems or transmitting via network c o To outline the RAF framework, it is use f concepts, Delegate, Filter, RDD, and Trans f this with respect to figure 2. In figure 2, ne w existing data occur as a result of clients co n E fficient searching a ttributes  a tive has emerged r evious relational o ry non-relational emerged either as h es to i n memory strengths, and the r in-memory data park c le  computing model batch processing n to a sequence of s generated by one m ation with rarely a n to disks. Spark is l l-suited to operate y or to weave in o ns. Redis is very C implementation n tees. It lacks a c omplex, parallel e l constrains its n ce is a mature availability, high and support for a va exposes it to q uery capability is g regatio n s such as a ched, due to its o bject caching; but o mplex enterprise h ed primarily as a servers. The next e ngths and address r solutions in order e ctio n  L EMENTATION c enarios in which v ery low latencies e may be available a mically on the fly es. In this section e d in section 2 into d programming for b esilient storing y d\sing ad-hoc searches u n as services, and using interfaces c ts are distributed d so on, from the v ides a distributed u ted computing e ntric distributed p ass a data handle r y with the latter z e data for storing o nnections f ul to discuss four f ormations. We do w data or updates to n tacting a Storage Service. Typically the update s and, sometimes, the updates m volatile media   An RDD is an acronym for introduced in R A F  u s e s identical to those in [1 6 information in memory of o with assurance that in ca s machines, an RDD can be r e repeating well-formed opera t   A Transformation is an op e RDDs in order to generate a b e transient.  The concept o that in an d RAF  transformations as join, map   A Filter is a particular type o  produ ces  ou t of an in p whose contents satisfy a spe c   In order to facilitate efficie n non-volatile storage betwee n updates and applications that a level of indirection to t h obtained through a set of w stable view of content to content mutates.  This is des c Thus in figure 2 raw infor m into in-memory storage from by data producing clients, is f i of Delegate modules, and then RDDs \(such as RDD1 and R Transformations then produce reiterate, data sharing is th r opposed to a distributed file supplemented by a flexibl e applications interact with ot h i.e., using RPC\, or asynch r High performance analytics a coupled \(and therefore efficien t A  E fficient Storage Sharing u s A shared CR Fi g ure 2: RAF Fra m s will happen first in memory m ay become propagated to no n a Resilient Distributed Dataset s the RDD construct for reasons 6  i z., resilien t sto r in g o f  o ne or more machines, together s e of failure of one or more e constructed from precurso r s by t ions that produced it e ration applied to one or more new dataset or a result that may o f transformations is similar to transformations include such union, etc o f transformation. A filter, as in p ut dataset, a resulting dataset c ified condition n t sharing of both volatile and n applications that need to make need to read the data, we create h e storage. This indirection is w rapper functions that ensure a read-only consumers, even as c ribed further in 3.1 m ation – whether it’s preloaded disks or dynamically generated i rst made stable through the use filtered in order to create initial R DD2 in the figure\hains of the desired analytics results. To r ough memory instead of as system such as HDFS. This is e execution model in which h er applications synchronously r onously via queued messages a pplications can remain loosely t y using message queues s ing D ELEGATE  ource \(§2\urnishes different   m ework and Conce p ts 104 


information to queries at different poin t introduces an impedance mismatch for soft w on RDDs since a typical storage interface CRUD actions does not have the same bre a that an RDD possesses. This difficulty is re m inserting a bridge module named DELEGA T DELEGATE is to create a version of t h p articular time, and present it as a memo Beneath the DELEGATE module, CRU D p roceed directly against the mutable datasto operations proceed against the RDD that is the view produced by DELEGATE, som e added or deleted without affecting the analy s For efficiency, the DELEGATE module e write through pointer indirection. DE L p rovides C/C++ wrappers for objects in p ersistent or volatile, and using these w r creating operation can share memory effi c with concurrent transactional operations th a composition of a dataset. While embraci n RDDs from A F dev i a t es in i m ple m from [16 in o r d e r to carry o u t ex p lic it sharing of RDDs and facilitating coo r DELEGATE modules, ensuring that dat a efficiently accessible from CPUs for analysi s B Memory-centric Storage Operation For driving very low latency analytics ap p maintain data in memory, and share access t machines with large memory sizes ha v common in recent years, accumulating a n large amounts of data has become practic a softer and application managed consistency ACID semantics in the data layer itself applications to spread data among a cluste r machines to further expand solution sizes control which data needs to b e flushed medium and when; and this is achieved in R disk or file system plugins 3.2.1 Reliability It is necessary to address the concern that memory\ can compromise reliability and av a is recoverable by design. Thus it is the data s an initial RDD is obtained \(via Delegate, as that needs to be recoverable even if the committing changes to a non-volatile copy o as to a disk is non-synchronous. This is achi e Applications run on a cluster and can q u know how many nodes are present in th e application can write an update to more tha n the cluster size drops to 1, can record chang e medium. A storage structure \(such as a fi l uniformly sized partitions with records d p artitions through hashing of record ke y typically copied to at least one other back storage layer maintains the mapping betw e and the additional nodes where that partitio n maintained   When a node N is about to leave a cluster  cluster abruptly, the storage layer discov e and backup partitions are on N. For ea c p artitions, it selects one out of its bac k marks it as primary; and creates a new b a yet another node in the cluster.  For any b a N RAF creates a new instance of the b a some other node t s in time. This w are that operates for implementing a dth of operations m oved in RAF by T E. The purpose of h e datastore at a ry resident RDD D operations can re. While analysis created on top of e entities may be s is e mploys copy-onL EGATE module storage --whether r appers, an RDD c iently but safely a t may change the n g the concept of entation of RDDs instantiatio n and r dination through a is directly and s computations p lications on RAF t o it efficiently. As v e become more n d operating upon a l. With a shift to away from strict it is possible for r of large memory Applications also to a non-volatile R AF by means of volatility \(of main a ilability. An RDD s ource from which described in 3.1 primary mode of o f the source, such e ved as follows u ery the system to e cluster. Thus an n one node; and if e s to a non-volatile l e\s divided into d istributed among y s. A partition is up node, and the e en each partition n s backup copy is  or if it leaves the e rs which primary c h of N’s primary k up partitions and a ckup partition on a ckup partition on a ckup partition on   If a new node X joins the p artitions across all nodes in c Updates to a partition are p artition’s replicas through b urdening the application lo g control the replica count as w write is required to be synchro n C. Data and Storage Types In this subsection we brie f aspects of data layout and di s RAF implements data types describes two concepts that r e across nodes 3.3.1 Structured Data Structured data is expressed illustrated in Figure 3. On the r shows two types: CustomerK e in  s t ru c t u r e i s des c rib e order to yield data accessor m p arsing the necessary fields addition, a metadata structure s in JSON format defines tuples  the names \(analogous to name s the key attributes, \(3\on-key store type, which we will des c subsection. In implementing t h RAF supports both memo r organization of structured data In particular, the responsibilit y it is in memory, on disk, loc a applications and absorbed in t Applications supply the metad a file, and the RAF framew o necessary internal structures a transmitting or receiving data a While the use of Protobuf a s among distributed entities is w RAF is particularly advantage is built on the proposition o f from CRUD actions as quic k This is best seen by consid e alternatives for database rec o updates would require extensi v structures are not well suited f o 3.3.2 Storage Types RAF provides two attribute s and partitioned store. A datast o and it may be optionally replic a and is updated rarely but is re a  Figure 3: Type a cluster, then RAF rebalances c luding X, in background automatically streamed to a a network interface, without g ic. Applications can and do w ell as whether replication of a n ous f ly describe application visible s tribution 3.3.1 explains how and 3.3.2 on storage types e late to how data is distributed by a two part definition that is r ight is a protocol buffe at  e y, and Customer. As described e d in a file which is compiled in ethods that are very efficient in from a message stream. In s hown to the left in figure 3 also  by describing four aspects: \(1 s of relations in a database\\(2 or “value”\, and \(4 c ribe a little further in the next h is type of extensible structure r y and disk based, flexible with efficient serialization [8  y for locating the data – whether a l, or remote is offloaded from t o the RAF platform modules a ta and protobuf definitions in a o rk automatically creates the a nd serialization necessary for a cross node boundaries s an e f ficient exchange format w ell understood, its use in the ous because real-time analytics f propagating updates resulting k ly and efficiently as possible e ring ro w and column- based o rds: in ro w based structures v e parsing, while column-based o r high rates of updates s for datastores: replicated store o re may be single or partitioned a ted.  When a datastore is small a d frequently, it is advantageous   a nd Store Metadata 105 


to keep it all of it as one single extent p memory\ at one home location, but make o n of it available on other nodes. This is capt u Figure 4. If on the other hand, it is written case \(c\ Figure 4\en it makes sense n single extent that hosts it, widely. For high one copy of it would be advisable on a remo t If a datastore is large in size \(case \(b\ F i divided into multiple extents or partitions; a n given at least one backup copy on some oth e its home location When there are backup copies, or if there p artition, a master copy of any given partiti o node. That node is the one which storage op e operations\tact and the master copy re f from the update operation into remote copi e accordance with application guided consi s An application can specify to the RAF whet h through updates or wants remote copies p write-behind approach. Under write-thr o operation returns control to application once all the copies; and under writeb ehind, the o p soon as it completes locally on the mas t changes are reflected to other nodes asynchr o 3.3.3 Storage Service Interface For CRUD operations, RAF furnishes bot h interface and a C++ language applicat i interface. As described in 3.3.1, protocol b u accessing data, which makes it eas y p rogramming interfaces in other languag e very simple grammar is used to write comm a    COMMAND  SVC_NAME OP_NAME PARAM  E SVC_NAME :== ID OP_NAME  ID PARAM :== JavaScript Object Notat i EXA_PARAM  ID ‘=’ PARAM ID :== [a-zA-Z0-9 _     The following, for example, creates a new in a business directory in a storage dataset n a   Figure 4: Attributes of Sto r p referably also in n e or more replicas u red as case \(a\ in frequently enough n ot to replicate the reliability, at least t e node as backup i gure 4\, then it is n d each partition is e r node other than are replicas of a o n is kept on some e rations \(“CRUD f lects the changes e s. This is done in s tency philosophy h er it wants writep erformed using a o ugh, the update data is updated in p eration returns as t er copy, and the o nously h a command line i on programming u ffers are used for y to implement e s. The following a nd line scripts E XA_PARAM   i on \(JSON customer “Tom5 a med “Customer  D D istributed Execution of An As described earlier in this s of resilient distributed dataset s capitalize on memory residen t And with the introduction o weaves in CRUD capable stor e RDDs can be derived -- just a s as HDFS files can be used f o stages of transformation descr i DAG\ used, as in y i e l computation plan for analyzin g to produce query results. By d multiple partitions each of w allows this approach to scale moving from a read-only to re a RAF adopts the SEDA m composable parallelism. Effic dispatching of run-to-comple t context switching for synchro n is particularly synergistic sinc e of wait-states that might other w data into memory from diskba monitor over data partitions lo c would operate on that data par t core counts driving up the n within each node and with clusters becoming commonpla c well positioned to match lo w with nonb locking, data flow f o 3.4.1 Analytics Tasks Interface  The storage service inte r complemented by a service i n can compose and execute a D A analytics tasks. A command c a designate each source operan d and the keyword out_rdd to n An RDD may be described a s and as the out_rdd of some o p ossible for an analytics cli e operations through which desi g The syntax of an analyti c respects from that of a st o grammar for an analytics task  service operation, is the sa m except that the JSON content i i.e., by operation\et us Following is a command whic h customer and then applies a subset of customers who are i n the resulting RDD bj_custo m The following example furthe r specified step by step and b happen to share common in t instead of regenerating the sha r the following two independ e average sales per customer fo r Beijing or Shanghai, \(2\or c   r age alytics Tasks  s ection RAF reuses the concept s RDDs\ from n order t o  t data for lo w latency analytics o f Delegate 3.1\AF also e s as source datasets from which s 16 sho w s ho w d a ta se ts s u c h  o r deriving RDDs.   Successive i bed by a directed acyclic graph l d a memory-based, low latency g data in mutable/CRUD storage d ividing very large datasets into w hich is backed-up by a copy and remain resilient in spite of a d-write storage model m odel to achieve highly efficient iency results from event-based t ion methods which minimize n izatio n Memory-based storage e it drives down the probability w ise result from having to page a sed storage. Each node acts as a c al to it, and each operation that t ition is queued. With increasing n umber of computing elements larger and larger node count c e, this architectural approach is w latency in-memory execution o rm of execution r face described in 3.3.3 is n terface through which clients A G of operations to orchestrate a n use the keyword in_rdd to d in a filter/transform operation n ame the resul t of the operation s an in_rdd in one operation o ther operation, which makes it e nt to construct a pipeline of g nated flows of data occur c s command differs in minor o rage service command. The  which we refer to as an RDD m e as that described in 3.3.3 i s diffe r ent for each OP_NAME use an example to illustrate h takes as input an RDD named a filtering operation to extract a n the city of Beijing and names m er  r shows \(a\ how DAGs can be b ow independent tasks that t ermediate datasets can reuse r ed datasets. Let us say we have e nt queries – \(1\ Compute r customers that are from either ustomers from Beijing, identify 106 


the subset of customers who have purchase d and then for that subset, calculate the avera g level depiction is as below Computation Flow X Computation Flow Y Both flows take as input a sales r p rogressively compute the RDDs to arriv e targets: the first flow is aimed at taking all c from either Beijing or Shanghai, and aver a that slice of customers, while the seco n calculate the average sales per repeat custo m In RAF, the above computation could be org a Common Precursor Action \(across X and Y a Computation Flow X only Computation Flow Y only In order to specify the above com p applications would p roceed to specify th e computations to an in-memory RDD service    a  extract the dataset “customers from Beijing” rdd.service create { “transform_type”:  ”filter  in_rdd”: [{“rdd_name”: ”customer   out_rdd”: {“rdd_name”: ”bj_customer  transform={“op”: ”EQ”, “sub_exp”: [{“op   p aram”: ”c _ cit y     o p CONST p ara m   b  extract the dataset “customers from Shanghai  rdd.service create {“transform_type”:”filter in_rdd”:[{“rdd_name”:”customer  out _ rdd”:{“rdd _ name”: ”sh _ customer transform={“op”:”EQ”, “sub_exp” : [{“op F param”:”c_city”}, {“op”:”CONST”, “param    c   Union Beijing and Shanghai Customers rdd.service create {“transform_type”:”union in_rdd”:[{“rdd_name”:”bj_customer rdd_name”:”sh_customer  out_rdd rdd_name”:”bj_sh_customer    d  compute avg. sales across Beijing & Shanghai rdd.service action {“action_type”:”average  rdd_name”:”bj_sh_customer   action expr”:{“op”:”FIELD”, “param”: ”sales_am o   e  compute average sales for repeat customers fr rdd.service action {“action_type”:”average  rdd_name”:”bj_customer   action Sal es Reports Customers Custo m from Beijing Shang h Customers from Beijing Customers from Shanghai Sal es Reports Customers Repe a custo m from Beijin g Customers from Beijing Sal es Reports Customers Customers from Beijing Customers from Shanghai Customer s from Beijing  or Shanghai Customers from Beijing Customers from Shanghai Repeat customers from Beijing Customers from Beijing d more than once g e sales. The high r eports file, and e at two different c ustomers who are a ging the sales in n d flow aims to m er in Beijing a nized as follows a bove    p ositions flexibly e following three  as follows       FIELD m Bei j in g        F IELD  Shanghai   customers -o unt fr om Beijing -{“expr”:{“op”:”FIELD”, “par a All the above script com m 3.4.1.The name for the anal y Keywords create and actio n the above example rdd.servi c RDD \(tasks a, b, and c o operating on one or more exis one RDD to operate on in the e\ permissible to drop t h 3.4.1. RDDs to operate on rdd_name in both types of o p keyword to name an RDD e x application to avoid creating r suppose one process A ex e computation flow X; that bj_customer and s h_custom e executes the actions in com p repeating the computation of b the RDDs explicitly identified can avoid recreating bj_cust o creating it and vice versa We can represent the overal l the DAG in Figure 5. Let us u the execution would occur usi n 5, each box is an RDD creation/transformation steps action steps. Thus b j_custom e b y filter transformer on the c u is created by a union transfo r m ers or h ai Average sales per customer a t m ers g Average sales per customer s  Average sales per customer Average sales per customer Fig u Fig u Fig u a m”:” sales_amount m ands follow the grammar in y tics service is rdd.service  n respectively denote whether in c e is being asked to create an o mpute a result \(tasks d, e\y ting RDDs. When there is only case of an action \(as in tasks d h e in_rdd keyword described in are identified by the keyword p erations. The use of rdd_name  x plicitly in this way allows an r edundant RDDs. For example e cutes the actions shown in process would create RDDs er Another process B that p utation flow Y would end up b j_custome r for its query. With by rdd_name keyword, flow Y o me r if A has already begun l flow of both computations by u se this diagram to discuss how n g the RAF. In the DAG of Fig Solid lines represent RDD and dashed lines represent e r and sh_customer are created u stomer dataset, bj_sh_customer r me r and bj_customer_2 is the  u re 5  u re 6  u re 7 107 


result of filtering for repeat customers in bj _ Averaging actions on bj_customer_2 an d respectively yield the two results from two above, RDD bj_customer is used in bot h creation is shared \(not repeated\ the exec u Figures 6 and 7 show how partitions 3.3 customers were a very large dataset that is three nodes –shown respectively by blue re c 1,2,3. The number of partitions, incidentally  user. Then, as shown in Figure 6, the cre a RDDs— bj_customer and sh_customer c p artition by partition; as would the creation b j_sh_customer. Thus data decomposition would be easily carried over into destin a allows, as shown in Figure 7, keeping comp u b y maintaining corresponding partitions i n where the semantics of an operation al l example where such an optimization may n o a join that requires cross-node communicat i is made more efficient in RAF by replicati n rarely updated 3.3.2\but which may be r e operations such as joins. Finally, reliability i is obtained by virtue of RDDs being described in [1 In R A F  th e m a in t a p artitions further improves availability of R D IV  R ESULTS  In this section we share the performanc e using unit tests that demonstrate outstandin g decision support performance. We do this i n in section 4.2, we outline two RAFb ased established commercial software vendors a performance, to portray how straight-forw a realistic operational analytics solutions atop R A Unit Testing We measured RAF on two fronts h operations scale, which represents memo r operations performance, and, how long complete a query to show distributed anal y Table 1 has configuration data for the u p da t operations, we borrow SSB schema fr o Benchmark d u tilize S S B DB GEN to file. Then the update testing parses the dat a the records into RAF. The performance met r TPS, which is total record number divided time in second Figure 8 shows consistent increase in the test as it distributes over multiple nodes w scaling of 7.0x for an 8 node cluster co Xeon  E5-2680 processors.  In this test, f o with asynchronous backup copying to obtained an average CPU utilization of abo u b eing an update only test \(and therefore n e the percent of time spent in operating syst which is reflective of the fast data capture storage capability of RAF S erver Intel  Xeon  E5-2680 \(8C, 2.7GH z 1333, 10Gb NIC  Network  10Gbps Switc h  O p  Sy s  Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.2,  64 bi t Table 1 Configuration The second test uses a query that is log query 6 of the industry standard TPC-H be n for execution on top of RAF, and for executi Both the RAF test and Hive test are perfor m _ customer datase t  d bj_sh_customer queries. As noted h queries and its u tion of the DAG 2\ork. Suppose partitioned across c tangles numbered  is controllable by a tion of derivative c an also proceed of the union RDD in source RDDs a tion RDDs. This u tations node local n the same node l ow. One counter o t be applicable is i on. However, this n g RDDs that are e ad many times in i n such operations recomputable as a ining of backup D Ds e readout for RAF g transactional and n section 4.1. Then applications from a nd describe their a rd it is to create R AF h ow well update r y-centric storage does it take to y tics performance t e test. For update o m Star Schema ol to generate data a file and insert all r ic is measured by by total execution throughput of this w ith an aggregate nsisting of Intel   o r the 1 node test other nodes\ we u t 80%. Despite it e twork intensive em was only 7 distribution, and z 128GB DDR3t  ically identical to n chmark, rewritten on on top of Hive m ed on an 8 node Intel  Xeon  E5-2680 cluste r 120G. As shown in Figure 9 p erformance of Hive on 1st It e and subsequent iterations of t h RAF explicitly uses memory a this query drops to 150ms b u manner. These unit testing re s memory distributed processin g substantiated further by m Currently we are building mor e high concurrency operational a B Solution-level Implementati o We describe in sections 4.2 1 developed by software v e p erformance. They each requi r data at the same time that the i real time. Both sections descri b the performance obtained by t h 4.2.1 Telecommunications Sub s RAF is used by an ISV  whose customers are teleco m The customers have hundred s Unified Service Platform conducts subscriber transactio n service transactions. The ty p subscriber pushing fresh cred i account, prepaying or paying o of p roducts. A subscriber belo n a telecommunications service p Figure 8: Scalab i Figure 9: Latency r e r and the dataset size used is RAF achieves nearly 9X the e ratio n We do not compare 2 nd  h is test with Hive because, since a s storage, its r esponse time for u t Hive cannot benefit in like s ults show the advantage of ing oriented design of RAF, to be m ore sophisticated workloads e TPC-H derived queries,  and a a nalytics workload o n and Testing 1 and 4.2.2 two solutions being e ndors and initial solution r e storing a large volume of new i nformation must be anal y zed in b e the problem being solved and h e solution in current testing s criber Management  independent software vendor m munications service providers s of millions of subscribers. A USP\ided by the ISV n s, many of which may be sel f p ical scenario is comprises a i ts into his/her mobile services o n demand for a broad spectrum n gs to one province company of p rovider, but he/she can use prei lity Testing Result e lative to Hive/HDFS 108 


paid cards issued by province companies that are different from the one to which he/she belongs. USP performs transactions, routes requests and responses back and forth among participating IT systems of province companies, logs transaction histories, and carries out desired analytics against stored data or in-progress transactions For one specific customer \(telecommunications provider there are more that 300 million subscribers and USP transactions have a volume of about 10 million per day, with a peak volume of 1000 transactions/second. The customer has requested the ISV to furnish USP with two types of business analytics: drill-downs of different categories of transactions according to subscribers and services consumed and real-time detection and flagging of suspicious transactions. One particular type of suspicious transaction occurs when someone’s account is hacked or a phishing attack compromises a subscriber’s secret card number; and is detected by monitoring transactions for evidence of abnormal levels of activity within a short time period. Previously USP was implemented on top of a commercial RDBMS, and on a 40 core Intel  Xeon  server \(E7-4870\ platform, yielded an average transaction time of 3s, which could not meet the deployment goal. Now, with RAF, on a 5 node Intel  Xeon   E5-2680 cluster \(16 cores/node\e data resulting from credit card activity is funneled into in-memory data stores for inline analysis for the transactions. As a result, transaction times have been reduced ten-fold to 300 ms. The new solution has also created significant head room for running complex ad-hoc queries for obtaining detailed drill-downs and we are in the process of building a systematic solution level workload to benchmark the ad-hoc query performance 4.2.2 Safe City Solution The second solution under development targets license plate crime in China. To avoid steep expenses like road tax mandatory insurance, etc., unscrupulous drivers can \(and do create fake license plates. One ISV we are working with addresses this solution by capturing images of vehicles and automatically tying license plate numbers with vehicle descriptions, and then detecting duplications using offline batch analysis. Since it is hard for the police to be effective with long latency results, the ISV is shifting to using RAF to create a real-time detection system. Each vehicle captured by a distributed sensor feed is tracked, by funneling data into an inmemory RAF cluster, which can also perform the necessary checks for duplicated license plate numbers for discrepancies between registration information and sensor data about its color and make. Recent travel history can also reveal whether a license plate is suspicious because the vehicle it is on has traveled too far too soon. A variety of common searches and aggregations also become possible on the data feeds that have recently arrived from the sensors. In current testing, a 5 node Intel  Xeon  E5-2680 cluster handles data feeds from 600 video cameras in less than a second, exceeding ISV requirement V  C ONTINUING AND FUTURE WORK  Motivated by the high degree of familiarity that many developers have with database interfaces, we are incrementally introducing SQL-92/JDBC/ODBC like interfaces on top of RAF. A number of optimizations are also being added; these include: \(1\ application requested indexing, to accelerate searches; \(2\blending in column-store capabilities where appropriate \(for example, for rarely-written data\ and \(3 compression, in order to reduce data transported between nodes VI  C ONCLUSION  This paper presents RAF, an architectural approach that meshes memory-centric non-relational query processing for low latency analytics with memory-centric update processing to accommodate high volumes of updates and to surface those updates for inclusion into analytics. This blending is kept efficient by merging memory management between the two spheres of operation by using a transparent versioning capability that we term Delegate which participates as a special type of content transformer in a hierarchy of RDD transformations. In RAF, protocol buffers are used to obtain data abstraction and efficient conveyance among applications providing applications with a high degree of independence in location, representation, and transmission of data. The use of protocol buffers is particularly valuable as it removes the need for producers and consumers to coordinate explicitly in partitioning, tiering, caching, or replication of information that may be arriving at high velocities. These improvements for distributing a memory-based storage service are combined with a message queues based execution partitioning mechanism in which each node acts as a local monitor over its data partitions A light-weight but expressive interface makes it easy for RAF services to map various transformations that need to occur in the course of execution of a query into the data flows that need to occur among the distributed execution agents through message queues, thus hiding all of the plumbing from the services that need to use RAF as a single seamless platform for modifying as well as querying data in pooled memory and aggregate computing capacity of a cluster of machines. Using unit tests we show high cluster scaling capability for transactions, an order of magnitude latency improvement for query processing. The paper also describes two real-world usage scenarios in which RAF is being used to create high throughput operational analytics solutions. With rapidly increasing memory capacities and large, open-stack based clusters, RAF provides a collection of architectural techniques for rapid integration of real-time analytics solutions  R EFERENCES  1  Apache Hadoop: http://hadoop.apache.org  2  Apache HBase: http://hbase.apache.org  3  H. Kilov, “From semantic to object-oriented data modeling Proc. 1 st Intl. Conf. on Systems Integration,” 1990 4  K. Shvachko, H.Kuang, S. Radia, R. Chansler. “The Hadoop Distributed File System”, Proc. MSST2010, May 2010 5  Memcached: http://www.memcached.org  6  Oracle Coherence: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/ middle  ware/ coherence  7  H. Plattner, A. Zeier In-Memory Data Management  8  Protobuf: http://code.google.com/p/protobuf  9  B. Ramesh, T. Kraus, T. Walter, Optimization of SQL queries involving aggregate expressions using a plurality of local and global aggregation operations: U.S. Patent 5884299 10  Redis  http://www.redis.io  11  SAP HANA: http://www.saphana.com  12  SEDA: http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~mdw/proj/seda  13  SQLStream:  http://www.sqlstream.com  14  Vertica: http://www.vertica.com  15  VoltDB: http://www.voltdb.com  16  M. Zaharia, et al., Resilient Distributed Datasets: A FaultTolerant Abstraction for In-Memory Cluster Computing. NSDI 2012  17  Piatt, B., “Openstack Overview”, http://ww.omg.org/news /mee  tings /tc /ca-10 /special-events/pdf /5-3_Piatt.pdf  18  Spark Programming Guide:  http://spark-project.org/ docs  latest/scala-programming-guide.html  19  Star Schema Benchmark www.cs.umb.edu/~poneil StarSchemaB.PDF  109 


tionship between beer brands and customers Our proposed criterion played an important role in determining the number of clusters in this analysis We nally compare our proposed criterion with other ones For example AIC discovered four customer clusters and the customer behavior suggested by each cluster is rather different from that given by NML ICL selected only ve brand clusters whereas results of NML also distinguished brand clusters B and E Each of these results shows certain aspects of the data but we emphasize that the model selection results given by NML are justi“ed from the perspective of data compression VII C ONCLUSION In this paper we have addressed the issue of statistical model selection in GRD modeling From the viewpoint of the MDL principle we have clari“ed the asymptotic property of NML in GRD modeling and have proposed a new model selection criterion We have applied our proposed criterion to the issue of model selection in SBM learning and have derived a new and ef“cient method of calculating the NML code-length for SBM The effectiveness of our NML-based criterion has been demonstrated experimentally using arti“cial data and real beer-purchase data Thus for the rst time we have realized a model selection technique that considers the statistical characteristics of GRD models We will extend our discussion to other problems and criteria A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work was partially supported by MEXT KAKENHI 23240019 by the Aihara Project the FIRST program from JSPS initiated by CSTP by HAKUHODO Inc and by MACROMILL Inc R EFERENCES  B Long Z Zhang and P  S Y u  Relational Data Clustering Models Algorithms and Applications  Chapman  Hall/CRC 2010  T  Roos T  Silander  P  K ontkanen and P  Myllymaki Bayesian network structure learning using factorized NML universal models in Information Theory and Applications Workshop  Feb 2008 pp 272 276  P  K ontkanen P  Myllym  aki W Buntine J Rissanen and H Tirri An MDL framework for data clustering in Advances in Minimum Description Length Theory and Applications  MIT Press 2005  A T  Cemgil Bayesian inference for nonne gati v e matrix factorisation models Intell Neuroscience  vol 2009 pp 4:1…4:17 Jan 2009  H Akaik e  A ne w look at the statistical model identi“cation  IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control  vol 19 no 6 pp 716  723 Dec 1974  G E Schw arz Estimating the dimension of a model  Annals of Statistics  vol 6 pp 461…464 1978  E M Airoldi D M Blei S E Fienber g and E P  Xing Mixed membership stochastic blockmodels J Mach Learn Res  vol 9 pp 1981…2014 Jun 2008  J Rissanen Modeling by shortest data description  Automatica  vol 14 no 5 pp 465  471 1978   Fisher information and stochastic comple xity   IEEE Transactions on Information Theory  vol 42 no 1 pp 40 47 Jan 1996  Y  M Shtark o v  Uni v ersal sequential coding of single messages Problems of Information Transmission  vol 23 no 3 pp 3…17 1987  S Hirai and K Y amanishi Ef cient computation of normalized maximum likelihood coding for Gaussian mixtures with its applications to optimal clustering in Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory ISIT  Aug 2011 pp 1031 1035  J Rissanen MDL denoising  IEEE Transactions on Information Theory  vol 46 no 7 pp 2537 2543 Nov 2000  Y  Hayashi and K Y amanishi Sequential netw ork change detection with its applications to ad impact relation analysis in IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ICDM2012  2012 pp 280…289  T  A Snijders and K No wicki Estimation and prediction for stochastic blockmodels for graphs with latent block structure Journal of Classi“cation  vol 14 pp 75…100 1997  N Friedman L Getoor  D  K oller  and A Pfef fer  Learning probabilistic relational models in Proceedings of the 16th international joint conference on Arti“cial intelligence  vol 2 1999 pp 1300…1307  J.-J Daudin F  Picard and S Robin A mixture model for random graphs Statistics and Computing  vol 18 no 2 pp 173…183 2008  C K emp J B T enenbaum T  L Grif ths T  Y amada and N Ueda Learning systems of concepts with an in“nite relational model in Proceedings of the 21st national conference on Arti“cial intelligence  2006 pp 381…388  C S W allace and P  R Freeman Estimation and inference by compact coding Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B Methodological  vol 49 no 3 pp pp 240…265 1987  C Biernacki G Celeux and G Go v aert  Assessing a mixture model for clustering with the integrated completed likelihood Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence IEEE Transactions on  vol 22 no 7 pp 719…725 2000  H Jef fre ys  A n i n v ariant form for the prior probability in estimation problems in Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series A Mathematical and Physical Sciences  vol 186 no 1007 1946 pp 453…461  I S Dhillon S Mallela and D S Modha Informationtheoretic co-clustering in Proceedings of the ninth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining  2003 pp 89…98 429 


 List and number all bibliographical references in 9-point Times, single-sp aced, at the end of your paper.  When referenced in the text, enclose the  Where appropriate, include the name\(s referenced books    K. Albright, W omen in American Foreign Policy SAIS Review, 2000, pp.65-70   o rkshop on Cyberinfrastructure for the Social and Behavioral Sciences Final Report, 2005   o zniak, Accelerating Social Science Analysis for a New Age: Moving from Traditional to Computational Methods for Analyzing Large Scale TextBased Data in International Affairs 
ISA Journal of Politics Rutgers University Press The Christian Science Monitor American Political Science Review Americas Extended Hand Assessing the Obama Administ ration's Global Engagement Strategy 
2012   an, A. Trethewey, and B. Goodall, A 21st Century Model for Communication in the Global War of Ideas: From Simplistic Influence to Pragmatic ComplexityŽ, Consortium for Strat Coms, August 3, 2007   i ssion Statement, Bureau of Resource Management, Dept. of State http://tinyurl.com/statedata November 2011   U.S. Public Diplomacy and Global Foreign Opinion Vol. 71, No. 3, July 2009: 863-875   o men and the Shaping of American Foreign Policy 1997    LaFranchi, H illary Clinton, O b am as road w a rrior snags most traveled title February 7, 2011   Making: Madeleine Albr ight and Condoleezza Rice American Political Science Association, September 2005    Lassw ell, The theory of political propaganda v.21, 1927, pp. 627-31   2010   cCormick, W hat does Secretary of State Mean?Ž, The North American Review, 1911, pp. 206-212   eans to Success in W o rld Politics, Public Affairs, 2005   A. \(2003 An e-Science Perspective, in Grid Computing: Making the Global Infrastructure a Reality \(eds F. Berman, G. Fox and T. Hey\iley & Sons, Ltd, Chichester, UK    M i ner; J. Elder; T. H ill; R  N i sbet; D  D e len; A  Fast. Practical Text Mining and Statistical Analysis of Nonstructured Text Data, \(2012 
8. Limitations  9. Future Research  10. References 
and emotional topic, it is not a top priority for US foreign policy  This paper has multiple limitations on its research. The datasets included are only for the three most recent female Secretar ies of State and cannot be used to generalize an overall US foreign policy message. Also, there is a gap between the three female Secretaries filled by Secretary of State Colin Powell. For purposes of this paper, and in order to keep gender consistent across all datasets, Secretary Powell was not included Another limitation is the lack of keyword in context analysis. Although these keywords and phrases are important due to their number of times used, as well as their appearance in a large percentage of cases, their context may differ. Further analysis of these important keywords and phrases will lead to deeper insights and more complex nuances  This study is an initial analysis on three separate datasets. Further contextual analysis can lead to deeper understandings of the frequently occurring keywords and phrases that are predominant from each Secretary. Keyword in context analysis will provide further unpacking a nd clearer definitions of what each keyword or phrase means when the Secretary uses it. A prior crosstabs analysis on the Secretary Clinton dataset provided further clues to the evolution of keywords and phrases over time and geography. This analysis will be completed on Secretary Rice and Secretary Albrights datasets as well. Future analysis will include Secretary Powells tenure from 2001-2005 in order to see if his themes are consistent with those before and after his term Future research will also include the final two approaches from the ASSANA Methodology traditional hand coding as well as the High Performance Computing Environment. Incorporating these other approaches will allow for a full review of the differences in findings and time for analysis between each approach  
1276 
1278 


                                                                                                      


                  


On the Evolution of Contacts and Communities in Networks of Face-to-Face Proximity 993 Mark Kibanov, Martin Atzmueller, Christoph Scholz, and Gerd Stumme Community Detection Based on Readers' Borrowing Records 1001 Liu Xin, E. Haihong, and Song Junde Design of a Mobile Telephony System for Social Interaction 1006 Yuan-Chih Yu Understanding News Sharing in Social Media from the Diffusion of Innovations Perspective 1013 Long Ma, Chei Sian Lee, and Dion H. Goh A Study of Offline Events and Its Influence on Online Social Connections in Douban 1021 Alvin Chin, Jilei Tian, Junwei Han, and Jianwei Niu How Long a Passenger Waits for a Vacant Taxi—Large-Scale Taxi Trace Mining for Smart Cities 1029 Guande Qi, Gang Pan, Shijian Li, Daqing Zhang, Lin Sun, and Laurence Tianruo Yang iThings/CPSCom 2013 Symposia Symposium on Frontiers of Internet of Things \(SymIoT Frequent Itemset Based Event Detection in Uncertain Sensor Networks 1037 Yongxuan Lai and Jinshan Xie Improved RETE Algorithm in Context Reasoning for Web of Things Environments 1044 Teng Gao, Xiaofeng Qiu, and Lijuan He Ultra-low-power Neural Recording Microsystem for Implantable Brain Machine Interface 1050 Weidong Cao and Hongge Li From Internet of Things to Internet of Agents 1054 Han Yu, Zhiqi Shen, and Cyril Leung Using Kasa Method to Separate Target's RCS Characters from Background in Electromagnetic Sensing within Anechoic Chamber Measurement 1058 Jingcheng Zhao and Ming Lv Research on IPv6 Address Forecast Model of Smart Grid 1064 Xin Miao and Xi Chen Relay Node Deployment Based Small World Effect in Hierarchical Industrial Wireless Sensor Networks 1066 Jieyu Wu, Xinyu Shao, and Haiping Zhu A Development Analysis of China's Intelligent Transportation System 1072 Yuxiang Yan and Chenxue Xu An Anti-collision Algorithm Using Tag Random-Dispersing for RFID Systems 1077 Yang Qing, Li Jian-cheng, Wang Hong-yi, and Shen Rong-jun Pairing and Authentication Security Technologies in Low-Power Bluetooth 1081 Junfeng Xu, Tao Zhang, Dong Lin, Ye Mao, Xiaonan Liu, Shiwu Chen, Shuai Shao Bin Tian, and Shengwei Yi 
xvii 


An Attribute-Based Encryption Scheme with Constant-Size Ciphertexts 1086 Yanfeng Qi, Chunming Tang, Yu Lou, Maozhi Xu, and Baoan Guo Synthetic Evaluation of the Trustworthiness of Integrated Monitoring-Controlling System for LED Display Based on Fuzzy AHP 1089 Yuanmei Wen, Li Luo, Xuechen Yu, and Yanyu Chen Improvement of Peach Platform to Support GUI-Based Protocol State Modeling 1094 Hao Wang, Qiaoyan Wen, and Zhao Zhang Game Theoretic Analysis of Workload Factoring in Federation of Clouds 1098 Yonggen Gu and Changlei Lin Study on Heartbeat Information Acquired from Pressure Cushion Based on Body Sensor Network 1103 Junrong Bao, Xiaoyun Shou, Hua Wang, and Haiyan Yang Towards an Equitable Federated Name Service for the Internet of Things 1109 Xinchi Li, Yang Liu, Ye Tian, Ning Kong, Yan Wang, and Wei Mao Double Nested Internet of Things for Intelligent Management of Police Equipment 1116 Li Shengguang, Tan Lin, Wang Junxiu, and Yu Rui A Universal Object Name Resolution Scheme for IoT 1120 Zhiwei Yan, Ning Kong, Ye Tian, and Yong-Jin Park The New Intelligent Prediction for Bus Congestion Based on History Information Processing 1125 Yan Zhang and Guixi Xiong Construction and Strategies in IoT Security System 1129 Quandeng Gou, Lianshan Yan, Yihe Liu, and Yao Li Fuzzy Double-Threshold Track Association Algorithm Using Adaptive Threshold in Distributed Multisensor-Multitarget Tracking Systems 1133 Wei Du, Huansheng Ning, Yuan Wei, and Jun Wang An Intelligent System for Precast Concrete Element Manufacturing Management Based on RFID Technology 1138 Hu Min and Lu Junyu Data Management for Internet of Things: Challenges, Approaches and Opportunities 1144 Meng Ma, Ping Wang, and Chao-Hsien Chu Residential Energy Management in Smart Grid: A Markov Decision Process-Based Approach 1152 Sudip Misra, Ayan Mondal, Shukla Banik, Manas Khatua, Samaresh Bera and Mohammad S. Obaidat A Space-Time with Weight Algorithm for RFID Data Interpolation 1158 Ming Ke, Xin Wang, Jianxin Tang, and Xuhui Chen Integration of Smart Sensor Networks into Internet of Things: Challenges and Applications 1162 Dan Partynski and Simon G.M. Koo 
xviii 


Integrating Context-Awareness and Trustworthiness in IoT Descriptions 1168 Kaiyu Wan and Vangalur Alagar Building Smart M2M Applications Using the WuKong Profile Framework 1175 Kwei-Jay Lin, Neils Reijers, Yu-Chung Wang, Chi-Sheng Shih, and Jane Y. Hsu A Human Trajectory Estimate Based on Individual Mobility Pattern Library 1181 Yang Yang, Bowen Du, and Xiao Jiang The Research on Monitoring of Discrete Manufacturing Process Based on Internet of Things 1186 Liuyin Yuan, Yu Guo, Jiajun Jiang, and Liyun Nian Research on the Framework of Internet of Things in Manufacturing for Aircraft Large Components Assembly Site 1192 Jihong Liu and Jie Yu Technical State Monitoring and Evaluation of Aerospace Product Manufacturing Workshop Based on Internet of Things 1197 Jihong Liu and Wenting Xu Temperature Map Recovery Based on Compressive Sensing for Large-Scale Wireless Sensor Networks 1202 Xuanxuan Wu, Cheng-Long Chuang, and Joe-Air Jiang Interoperability Repository System for the Internet-of-Things 1207 Pedro Maló, Tiago Teixeira, Bruno Almeida, and Márcio Mateus Discussion on Key Technologies in Forestry Fundamental Scientific Information Cloud Service Platform 1216 Mubo Zhang, Zhongming Li, and Fan Li Symposium on Frontiers of Cyber-Physical-Social Computing SymCPS Leveraging Social Network APIs for Enhancing Smartphone Apps: An Example of VoIP App 1219 Shuchih Ernest Chang and Pin-Fan Lee Extending and Recompiling AADL for CPS Modeling 1225 Zhonghao Sun and Xingshe Zhou A Novel Frequency Hopping Scheme Based on Cognitive Radio for Aircraft 1231 Lei Zhidong and Zhang Xiaolin Modeling Effects of Physical Factors on Controller Area  Network in Cyber-physical Systems 1237 Bo Shen, Xingshe Zhou, and Ru Wang Detecting Flu Transmission by Social Sensor in China 1242 Jiangmiao Huang, Hui Zhao, and Jie Zhang A Smart Cyber-physical Systems-Based Solution for Pest Control \(Work in Progress 1248 Farhad Mehdipour, Krishna Chaitanya Nunna, and Kazuaki J. Murakami 
xix 


A Hybrid Content-Based Filtering Approach: Recommending Microbloggers for Web-Based Communities 1254 Kejun Dong and Yi Shen Just-in-Time Social Cloud: Computational Social Platform to Guide People's Just-in-Time Decisions 1259 Kwan Hong Lee, Andrew Lippman, Alex S. Pentland, and Pattie Maes Towards a Hybrid Approach of Primitive Cognitive Network Process and K-Means Clustering for Social Network Analysis 1267 Chun Guan and Kevin Kam Fung Yuen A Compressive Sensing Based Secure Data Transmission Scheme 1272 Guorui Li and Ying Wang An IO Optimized Data Access Method in Distributed Key-Value Storage System 1276 Li Chao, Wu Guangjun, Wang Shupeng, and Li Yixi W e  K n o w  W h a t  Y o u  A r e A  U s e r  C l a s s i f i c a t i o n  B a s e d  o n  M o b i l e  D a t a                                                             1 2 8 2 Duan Hu, Fei Sun, Lai Tu, and Benxiong Huang E f f i c i e n t  S e c u r i t y  S o l u t i o n  f o r  I n f o r m a t i o n c e n t r i c  N e t w o r k i n g                                                                          1 2 9 0 Hasen Nicanfar, Peyman TalebiFard, Chunsheng Zhu, and Victor C.M. Leung Towards Dynamic Resource Provisioning for Traffic Mining Service Cloud 1296 Jianjun Yu and Tongyu Zhu Leading Users Detecting Model in Professional Community Question Answering Services 1302 Siqi Song, Ye Tian, Wenwen Han, Xirong Que, and Wendong Wang A Moving Foreground Expansion Method Based on the Gaussian Distribution 1308 Yanhua Li, Wei Li, and Qi Xiang A Hybrid Emotion Recognition on Android Smart Phones 1313 Weishan Zhang, Xin Meng, Qinghua Lu, Yuan Rao, and Jiehan Zhou Multi-view Approach for Modeling Aerospace Cyber-physical Systems 1319 Lichen Zhang EigenCrime: An Algorithm for Criminal Network Mining Based on Trusted Computing 1325 Shujun Cai, Jiangnan Xia, Keyi Sun, and Zhen Wang A Task-Attribute-Based Workflow Access Control Model 1330 Yi Liu, Ke Xu, and Junde Song GreenBicycling: A Smartphone-Based Public Bicycle Sharing System for Healthy Life 1335 Yifan Zhao, Longbiao Chen, Chao Teng, Shijian Li, and Gang Pan Multi-step Sensor Scheduling for Energy-Efficient High-Accuracy Collaborative Target Tracking in Wireless Sensor Networks 1341 Biao Song, Wendong Xiao, and Zhaohui Zhang xx  


International Workshop on Vehicular Sensor and Ad-Hoc Networks \(VeSAN 2013 Toward Optimal Additive Noise Distribution for Privacy Protection in Mobile Statistics Aggregation 1346 Hao Zhang, Yonggang Wen, Honggang Hu, and Nenghai Yu Performance Analysis of a Hierarchical Structured VANET 1352 Wanting Zhu, Qing Zhang, and A.C.M. Fong Multilevel Cluster-Based Information Fusion in Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks 1357 Weicheng Zhao, Linjuan Zhang, Wanting Zhu, and Yanqi Zhao PSFCS: Robust Emergency Communications Supporting High-Mobility Based on WiMAX MMR Networks 1363 Wen-Kang Jia, Chia-Yao Chen, and Yaw-Chung Chen International Workshop on Next Topics for Green Communications and Computing \(GreenCom-Next 2013 On Energy Efficiency Data Access and Backup for Cloud Computing Networks 1369 Yeanf-Fu Wen A Model to Analyze the Energy Savings of Base Station Sleep Mode in LTE HetNets 1375 Paolo Dini, Marco Miozzo, Nicola Bui, and Nicola Baldo Soft Timing Synchronization Algorithm for CPM Signals 1381 Xiangchao Zhou, Rui Xue, Danfeng Zhao, and Fu Fang Secure Framework for the Return Routability Procedure in MIPv6 1386 Faisal Al Hawi, Chan Yeob Yeun, and Khaled Salah An Energy Efficient Cache Design for Multi-core Processors 1392 Cao Xiangrong and Zhang Xiaolin Analysis Method of Energy for C Source Program and Its Application 1397 Yang Yuechuan, Zeng Guosun, Ding Chunling, and Wang Wei Simulating Stochastic Activation Functions 1403 Hanno Hildmann, Sebastien Nicolas, and Fabrice Saffre Power-Efficient Virtual Machine Placement and Migration in Data Centers 1408 Shuo Fang, Renuga Kanagavelu, Bu-Sung Lee, Chuan Heng Foh, and Khin Mi Mi Aung Probabilistic Modeling during Power Estimation for Mixed Polarity Reed-Muller Logic Circuits 1414 Xiang Wang, Ying Lu, Yi Zhang, Zexi Zhao, Tongsheng Xia, Jishun Cui, and Limin Xiao Ant-Colony Based Heuristics to Minimize Power and Delay in the Internet 1419 Shankar Raman, Gaurav Raina, Hanno Hildmann, and Fabrice Saffre Materialization of a Comprehensive Digital City with CityMaker and ArcGIS 1424 Mingzhu Deng, Guangming Liu, and Yuran Hu 
xxi 


iThings/CPSCom 2013 Workshops International Workshop on Biometric Recognition and Its Applications \(BR&A 2013 A New Method of Designing High-Power Electroplating Power Supply 1429 Yihong He and Shuiyong Yu The Study of Fusion Image Block and Sparse Representation Classification in Disguised Face Recognition 1434 Gan Junying, Liu Dan, Zeng Junying, and Tian fengxia SMT Components Model Inspection Based on Characters Image Matching and Verification 1438 Bing Luo, Yuehua Gao, Zhongyu Sun, and Sufang Zhao The Manipulation of Chaotic Synchronization Quality Based on VCSEL with Optical Feedback 1442 Dongzhou Zhong Fast Wavelet Thresholding Algorithms for Face Image Inpainting 1445 Yibin Yu, Jinguo Cao, Yaofang Tang, and JunYing Gan Multispectral Palmprint Recognition Using Score-Level Fusion 1450 Yibin Yu, Yaofang Tang, Jinguo Cao, and JunYing Gan Encryption Node Design in Internet of Things Based on Fingerprint Features and CC2530 1454 Zeng Bohan, Wang Xu, Zhou Kaili, and Zhao Xueyuan Facial Expression Recognition Based on Local Binary Pattern and Gradient Directional Pattern 1458 Wenjin Chu Design of Intelligent Inducing Switch 1463 Yang Zhao and Fengxia Tian International Workshop on Cyber Physical Society Information Processing \(CPSIP 2013 Identify Online Fraudster with Extended Cellular Automata 1467 Ji Li and Yueliang Xiao Harmonization of Cyber-physical Society 1473 Alexander Abramovich and Rashid Khunagov Influence Analyzing and Modeling of High Frequency Forwarding Microblogs 1479 Shangbo Zhou, Wei Wang, Jie Luo, Li Wan, and Yao Zhang Requirement Specification for Transportation Cyber Physical Systems 1486 Lichen Zhang Integration-Oriented Modeling of Cyber-physical Interactive Process 1492 Tao Guan and Gang Yang 
xxii 


Web-of-Things Framework for WeChat 1496 Huang Yitong, Lai Xiaozheng, Dai Bingpei, and Chen Qinyi International Workshop on Cyberspace Security and Information Countermeasures \(CS&IC 2013 Simulation Experiment Research of Cyberspace Confront Effectiveness Evaluation 1501 Yu Zhang, Chen Shansong, and Xie Deping Technology of Situation Awareness Based on Radar Network in Cyberspace 1505 Xun Yang, Wei Shan, and Liu Jia Space Information Security and Cyberspace Defense Technology 1509 Su Kang, Dong Qiaozhong, and Zhu WeiQiang International Workshop on Connected Vehicles and Vehicular Networks \(CV2N 2013 Real-Time Vehicle Route Guidance Based on Connected Vehicles 1512 Daxin Tian, Yong Yuan, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guangquan Lu, and Haiying Xia A Novel Two-Timer-Based Broadcast Routing Algorithm for Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 1518 Song Fang and Tao Luo Research of Vehicle Counting Based on DBSCAN in Video Analysis 1523 Dayang Sun, Binbin Li, and Zhihong Qian A Self-Adaptive V2V Communication System with DSRC 1528 Daxin Tian, Hao Luo, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guizhen Yu, and HaiyingXia International Workshop on Electromagnetic Characteristics of Target and Environment \(ECTE 2013 SAR Segmentation and Recognition Based SCM 1533 Liping Hu and Xiaoyu Xing EM Scattering Analysis of Complex Target Coated with Plasma by Conformal SO-FDTD Method 1538 Hao-Chuan Deng, Xiao Wei, and Hong-Cheng Yin SAR RAW Data Simulation by Electromagnetic Computation in Frequency Domain 1542 Xupu Geng, Chunzhu Dong, Hongcheng Yin, and Guoqing Zhu Precession and Structural Parameters Estimation of the Cone-Shaped Target Based on the Profile Length 1545 Jing Huang, Chao Ning, and Zhihe Xiao Terahertz Gaussian Beam Scattering by a Conducting Sphere 1550 Liangsheng Li and Hongcheng Yin Reshaped Window Iterative Super-Resolution Imaging Algorithm 1554 Sheng Li, Liangsheng Li, and Hongcheng Yin Study on the influential factors of radar target RCS in resonance region 1557 Liang Man, Xiao Wei, and Zhihe Xiao 
xxiii 


A New Method for Estimating Radar Profile Length of a Cone Target 1561 Chao Ning, Jing Huang, Chao Gao, and Yong Zhu The Feature Extraction of Time-Frequency Image Based on Frequency Diversity 1566 Jing Sheng, Zhihe Xiao, and Jing Huang Characteristic Study of Target Micro-motion Based on the Wavelet Analysis 1571 Yuguang Tian, Chao Ning, and Xiangyang Zhang The Decorrelation Time Accumulation Restrain Method for Sea Clutter Spike 1576 Xujin Yuan, Yong Chen, Chao Wang, and Hongcheng Yin The Radar Echo Simulation of Moving Targets Based on HRRP 1580 Tao Zhao, Chun-Zhu Dong, Hong-Mei Ren, and Hong-Cheng Yin A Novel Method for Generating Planar Wave Based on Dielectric Gratings 1584 Dai Fei, Cheng Qiping, and Yue Hui Application of Terahertz Technology on RCS Measurement 1587 Wang Xiaobing, Huang Xin, Wu Yajun, Dai Fei, and Li Li Typical Target RCS Reduction Using Structural Radar Absorbing Material 1591 Yongfeng Wang and Kainan Qi International Workshop on Electromagnetic Detection and Identification \(EDI 2013 Error Analysis in Calculating RCS Using GRECO Method 1594 Zhi Hua Cheng, Yong Jun Xie, Xue Mei Wang, Yu Ru Mao, and Xiao Dong Ma Placement Optimization of Vehicular Antenna Using Particle Swarm Optimization 1597 Yu-Ru Mao, Yong-Jun Xie, Zhi-Hua Cheng, Xue-Mei Wang, and Xiao-Dong Ma A Novel Loss Compensated Multipath Power Divider for Frequency Synthesizer 1600 Tongfei Yu, Jungang Miao, Yan Xie, Baohua Yang, and Xianxun Yao An Approach for Extrapolating Far Field Radar Cross-Section from Near Field Measurement 1604 Gao Chao, Yuan Xiaofeng, and Bai Yang Implementation of the Digital Correlation Unit for Synthetic Aperture Interferometric Radiometer 1608 Xianxun Yao, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Jin Zhang, and Jungang Miao Design Procedures and Considerations of FOD Detection Millimeter-Wave FMCW Radar 1612 Jin Zhang, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Xianxun Yao, and Jungang Miao Exact Design of a Ka Band H-Plane Inductance Diaphragm Waveguide Band-Pass Filter 1618 Yong Fu, Baohua Yang, and Jungang Miao The Compact Microstrip Bandstop Filter Using Equal Width Open Stub 1622 Bao-Hua Yang, Ghulam Mehdi, Jin Zhang, Tong-fei Yu, Xian-xun Yao, and Jungang Miao 
xxiv 


The Design and Simulation of Hardware Architecture of the Fast and On-Site Assessing System of Scattering Characteristics of Stealth Aircraft Based on Simulink 1626 Hong Tao and Song Dan Second International Workshop on Engineering Pervasive Service Systems \(EPS 2013 Food Image Recognition Using Pervasive Cloud Computing 1631 Pengcheng Duan, Wenshan Wang, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao An Approach of Semantic Similarity by Combining HowNet and Cilin 1638 Peiying Zhang, Zhanshan Zhang, and Weishan Zhang Reconstruction of 3D Maps for 2D Satellite Images 1644 Lianzhang Zhu, Xuexing Zheng, and Pengfei Li Component-Based Cloud Computing Service Architecture for Measurement System 1650 Chao Liu, Qingsong Yu, Tianao Zhang, and Zhongwen Guo Second International Workshop on Energy and Wireless Sensors  \(e-WiSe 2013 Design Optimization of Electromagnetic MEMS Energy Harvester with Serpentine Coil 1656 Yuji Tanaka, Takayuki Fujita, Tatsuya Kotoge, Kohei Yamaguchi, Koji Sonoda Kensuke Kanda, and Kazusuke Maenaka Experimental Study of a Passive Impedance Matching Interface Based on a Centimeter-Size High Inductance Coil for Practically Enhanced Piezoelectric Energy Harvester Performance at Low Frequency 1659 Alessandro Giuliano and Meiling Zhu SPICE Modeling of Piezoelectric Energy Harvesting Device Utilizing Stress Influence 1662 Koji Sonoda, Takayuki Fujita, Kensuke Kanda, Kazusuke Maenaka, Hidenori Katsumura Masaya Tamura, and Hiroshi Kagata Modeling, Validation and Design Analyses of a Piezoelectric Cymbal Transducer for Non-resonant Energy Harvesting 1665 Alice Daniels, Alessandro Giuliano, Meiling Zhu, and Ashutosh Tiwari Towards Energy Autonomy of Wireless Sensors in Aeronautics Applications SMARTER Collaborative Project 1668 Marise Bafleur and Jean-Marie Dilhac 
xxv 


International Workshop on Gas Sensors and Gas-Sensing Platforms \(GS&GSP 2013 A Novel Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Optical Lens Surface Dirt Detection 1673 Jiuling Liu, Minghua Liu, Wen Wang, and Shitang He Electrical Sensoring Characteristics of Pseudo-LFE Sensors with Different Single Crystals 1676 Zhitian Zhang, Chao Zhang, Wenyan Wang, Yan Liu, and Tingfeng Ma Investigation of Polymer-Coated Film Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonator for Acetone Vapor Detection 1680 Jingjing Wang and Da Chen Polyaniline-Coated Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Humidity Detection 1685 Xiao Xie, Wen Wang, Shitang He, Ning Mu, and Yong Pan Effect of Facets of  Fe2O3 Nanostructures on Gas-Sensing Performance 1688 Jing Wang, Xiaoman Zhang, Weihong Xu, Liang Chen, Xingjiu Huang, and Jinhuai Liu Application and Development Trend of Gas Sensing Technology Based on Absorption Spectroscopy 1692 Zhenzhen Zhao, Fengchun Tian, and Shouqiong Liu Identification of Toxic VOC Pollutants Using FAIMS 1698 Youjiang Liu, Lehua Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaotian Zhang, Chilai Chen Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong, Mario A. Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Detection of benzene series by two-dimensional  FAIMS technique 1702 Lehua Zhang, Youjiang Liu, Hongwei Wang, Chilai Chen, Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong Xiaotian Zhang, Mario Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Fabrication of Prototypal Nanomechanical Resonator Based on a Single Copper Nanowire 1706 Weihong Xu and Li-Feng Ge The SAW Gas Chromatograph and Its Applications in the Public Security 1710 Shitang He, Jiuling Liu, and Minghua Liu Theory of Lamb Wave Transducers and Their Applications for Gas and Liquid Sensing 1714 Li-Feng Ge Study of the Space Station On-Orbit Leak Detection Based on the Differential Pressure Gas Sensor 1718 Wei Sun, Rongxin Yan, Lichen Sun, Donghui Meng, Zheng Li, Haitao Guo, and Wenbin Li 
xxvi 


International Workshop on Human Body Communications and Biomedical Signal Processing \(HBC&BSP 2013 Pulse-Output Monitor Genetic Circuit of Breast Cancer Testing 1722 Xiang Wang, Guangqian Yuan, Xun Wang, and Zexi Zhao Elderly Gait Analysis and Assessment Based on Body Area Network 1729 Y.D.Xuan, Z. Zhao, Z. Fang, Z.H.Xu, F.M.Sun, D.L.Chen, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hu and L.L.Tian Combined Motion and Region-Based 3D Tracking in Active Depth Image Sequence 1734 Xingyu Wu, Xia Mao, Lijiang Chen, and Angelo Compare Characteristic Optimization of Multilayer Dielectric for the Bloch-Surface-Wave Based Sensor 1740 Shuna Li, Jiansheng Liu, Zheng Zheng, Yuhang Wan, Weijing Kong, Sun Yu, and Shuna Li Facial Expression Recognition Based on t-SNE and AdaboostM2 1744 Jizheng Yi, Xia Mao, Yuli Xue, and Angelo Compare A Design of Security Module to Protect Program Execution in Embedded System 1750 Wang Xiang, Zhao Zexi, Lu Ying, and Zhang Yi Improved P-T Algorithm Applied to a Wearable Integrated Physiological Parameters System 1756 Z.H.Xu, Z. Fang, Z. Zhao, X.X.Chen, D.L.Chen, F.M.Sun, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hui and L.L.Tian Iterative Threshold Selection for TOA Estimation of IR-UWB System 1763 Xiang Wang, Bo Yin, Ying Lu, Bin Xu, Pei Du, and Limin Xiao A Novel Alternative Exponent-Weighted Fuzzy C-Means Algorithm 1767 Renhao Fan, Xiang Wang, and Jordi Madrenas A Wireless ZigBee Router with P-H-T Sensing for Health Monitoring 1773 Z. Fang, F. M. Sun, J. Tan, and Z. Zhao A Whole Integrated System for Detection of Neural Signal and Wireless Transmission 1779 Dang Hua, Qu Ruoyuan, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua Research on the Monitoring and Controlling Model of SIP Network 1784 Liang Zhang, Zhaoxin Zhang, Xu Cui, and Dan Liu Saliency-Based Feature Learning for No-Reference Image Quality Assessment 1790 Zhang Hong, Feng Ren, and Yuan Ding A Compensated Technique for 2.5-GHz Ring-Oscillator-Based PLL used in Wireless Transmission 1795 Dang Hua, Liu Zicheng, Gui Xiaoyan, and Zhong Shunan Speech Synthesis Research Based on EGG 1799 Lijiang Chen, Xia Mao, Pengfei Wei, and Angelo Compare A Temperature Insensitive Ring Oscillator for Low Power RF Communications 1804 Pilong Yang, Tongsheng Xia, Hongge Li, and Xiang Wang 
xxvii 


Low-Noise Biopotential Recording Circuit with Correlated Timeshare Sampling 1810 Hongge Li and Weidong Cao A No-Reference Quality Metric for Blur Image 1813 Zhang Taojia, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Circuit Design of Analog Front-End for Neural Signal Detection 1817 Dang Hua, Zhang Lei, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua A New Pedestrian Detect Method in Crowded Scenes 1820 Hou Xin, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Design and Implementation of a Circuit System for Neural Signal Detection 1825 Dang Hua, Li Xiao, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, Wang Xinghua, and Zhong Shunan Design and Implementation of a CMOS 1Gsps 5bit Flash ADC with Offset Calibration 1829 Li Shiwen, Dang Hua, Gao Peng, Gui Xiaoyan, Chen Zhiming, Wang Xinghua and Zhong Shunan Spike Detection Based on Fractal Dimension 1834 Zhou Jiyang, Xu Shengwei, Lin Nansen, Wang Mixia, and Cai Xinxia A GPU-Accelerated Large-Scale Music Similarity Retrieval Method 1839 Limin Xiao, Yao Zheng, Wenqi Tang, Guangchao Yao, Li Ruan, and Xiang Wang Power Spectral Analysis of Acupoint Bioelectricity 1844 Quan Zhou, Nansen Lin, Shuping Gai, Jingjing Zhang, Lu Zhang, Wentao Shi Renhuan Yu, and Xinxia Caii Compressive Sensing of Neural Action Potentials by Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries 1848 Shuai Zhou, Bowei Dai, Yin Xiang, Shengwei Xu, Bingchen Zhang, Yilin Song Mixia Wang, and Xinxia Cai CloudDVMM: Distributed Virtual Machine Monitor for Cloud Computing 1853 Li Ruan, Jinbin Peng, Limin Xiao, and Xiang Wang Metadata-Intensive I/O Performance Optimization by Merging Read/Write Requests 1859 Li Ruan, Qimeng Wu, Limin Xiao, Ke Xie, and Xiang Wang International Workshop on Machine-to-Machine Communication \(IWMMC 2013 Angle of Arrival Estimation for Passive UHF RFID Tag Backscatter Signal 1865 Meng-Chang Hua, Guo-Chen Peng, Yan-Jun Lai, and Hsin-Chin Liu Mobile IMS Integration of the Internet of Things in Ecosystem 1870 Han-Chuan Hsieh, Jiann-Liang Chen, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo Design of Gateway for Monitoring System in IoT Networks 1876 Ji-De Huang and Han-Chuan Hsieh Dependable Architecture of RFID Middleware on Networked RFID Systems 1881 Yung-Li Hu, Wei-Bing Su, Yennun Huang, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo 
xxviii 


The Design and Implementation of the Front-End Software for the Telemetry and Telecontrol System of Satellite 1885 Zhao Qi and Ma Li Internet of Things for Special Materials Transportation Vehicles 1891 Li Shengguang, Tan Lin, Zhu Yuanshuo, and Zhang Rucai Performance Analysis of COMPASS for the Asia-Pacific Region 1895 Hangyu Huo, Xiaolin Zhang, and Canhui Chen International Workshop on Localization Technology and Location-Based Services \(LTLS 2013 A KNN Indoor Positioning Algorithm That Is Weighted by the Membership of Fuzzy Set 1899 Jiankun Yu and Jianye Liu Building Location-Based Service Based on Social Network API: An Example of Check-In App 1904 Pin-Fan Lee and Shuchih Ernest Chang Prioritizing the Data in the Target-Tracking Wireless Sensor Networks 1910 Dan Xu, Xiaojiang Chen, Xiaoyan Yin, Lvju Wang, Hao Chen, Yuan Zhang, and Dingyi Fang DLF: Target Detection and Localization in Wireless Network 1916 Tianzhang Xing, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Liqiong Chang, and Yuhui Ren Bandwidth Reservation for Target Tracking in Region-Base Wireless Sensor Networks 1922 Xiaoyan Yin, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Hao Chen, and Wei Wei Fusion Estimation Based on UKF for Indoor RFID Tracking 1928 Xue-bo Jin International Workshop on New Media and Computer Vision for Smart City \(NMCV4SC 2013 Facile Analysis of Smartphone Comics 1932 Beili Qiu Research on Production of Regional Animation Style Based on Computer Graphic Rendering 1935 Jingjing Chen, Yi Lin, Kexuan Ma, and Yue Liu A Blind Demodulation Algorithm for MFSK Signals Using STFT-Radon-Wavelet Transform 1940 Zhang Guoyi, Qi Xinglong, Zhang Xuzhou, and Lin Caiyong A Novel Method to Remove Eye-Blink Artifacts Based on Correlation Using ICA 1946 Hengsong Sheng and Hongjun Tian Virtual Assembly, Maintenance and Training System Based on the Virtual - Real Fusion Technology 1949 Ning Wang and Yue Qi 
xxix 


International Workshop on Optical Characteristics and Applications \(OC&A 2013 A New Infrared Sensor Model Based on Imaging System Test Parameter 1953 Zheng Liu, Hong-xia Mao, Ying-hong Dai, and Jing-li Wu Mixed Norm-Based Image Restoration Using Neural Network 1957 Yuan-nan Xu, Jing Wang, and Yan-bing Dong Simulation and Analysis of Turbulent Optical Wavefront Based on Zernike Polynomials 1962 Yan Chen, Shu-hua Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Study on the Interaction of Optical Field and Transverse Acoustic Mode in Silicon Optical Fibers 1967 Jing Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Testing Technology of Infrared Point Source Target Optical Axis 1972 Yue Peng and Hao Lu Human Segmentation in Infrared Videos Using Markov Random Field 1976 Wenjia Yang, Xiaodan Xie, Zhi Chai, and Yapeng Li Third IEEE International Workshop on Sensing, Networking and Computing with Smartphones \(PhoneCom 2013 SmartProbe: A Bottleneck Capacity Estimation Tool for Smartphones 1980 Francesco Disperati, Dario Grassini, Enrico Gregori, Alessandro Improta Luciano Lenzini, Davide Pellegrino, and Nilo Redini CANDIS: Heterogenous Mobile Cloud Framework and Energy Cost-Aware Scheduling 1986 Sebastian Schildt, Felix Büsching, Enrico Jörns, and Lars Wolf An Experimental Study on Wireless Magnetic Communication with Smart Phone Using a MEMS Magnetometer 1992 Jiabo Wang and Xi Chen PhoneJoule: An Energy Management System for Android-Based Smartphones 1996 Xiaojing Liu, Fangwei Ding, Jie Li, Haifeng Liu, Zhuo Yang, Juan Chen, and Feng Xia KeyGraph-Based Social Network Generation for Mobile Context Sharing 2002 Myeong-Chun Lee, Young-Seol Lee, and Sung-Bae Cho Cyber-physical Directory: A Dynamic Visualization of Social Media Data 2007 Jean-Loup Lamothe, James She, and Ming Cheung 
xxx 


International Workshop on Sensor Data Processing and Integration \(SDPI 2013 Capturing, Calculating, and Disseminating Real-Time CO2 Emissions and CO2 Flux Measurements via Twitter in a Smart City 2013 Laurie Butgereit and Alecia Nickless Freshness-Aware Sensor Mashups Based on Data Services 2018 Guiling Wang and Feng Zhang A Method of Sensor Data Services Query in Emergency Management 2024 Xin Chen, Yanbo Han, Yongshan Wei, Feng Zhang, and Yan Wen A Sensory-Data-Hosting Oriented Scheduling Strategy on Virtual Machine 2029 Xiang Li and Yong Jiang International Workshop on Software Engineering for Internet of Things-Based Applications \(SeIoTA 2013 From the Internet of Things to Trusted Apps for Things 2037 Christian Prehofer A Profile for Step Data Transmission Based on Bluetooth Low Energy 2043 Youcong Ni, Sun Cong, Zhao Ting, Peng Ye, Chunyan Wang, and Luo Zeng Exception Handling in Service-Oriented Software: A Survey 2048 Xue Tong, Ying Shi, and Wu Qing On the Application of the Internet of Things in the Field of Medical and Health Care 2053 Fang Hu, Dan Xie, and Shaowu Shen Hierarchical RBAC Model with Alpha Factor in the Water Supply Pipeline Network Information System 2059 Wu Ting, Yuan Tianliang, and Yu Long Modeling Concern of Online Auction System with SA-CDL 2063 Linlin Zhang, Kai Zhao, Zhenhong Jia, and Youcong Ni The Research on Interactive Exhibition Technology of Digital Museum Resources 2067 Ning Wang and Xukun Shen International Workshop on Sensor Networks and Data Communications Security \(SNDCS 2013 Integrity Protection and Attestation of Security Critical Executions on Virtualized Platform in Cloud Computing Environment 2071 Bingyu Zou and Huanguo Zhang A Fuzzing Framework Based on Symbolic Execution and Combinatorial Testing 2076 Jian Yang, Huanguo Zhang, and Jianming Fu Dynamic Knowledge Repository-Based Security Auxiliary System of User Behavior 2081 Fan Yang, Jinxia Wu, Shanyu Tang, and Huanguo Zhang 
xxxi 


Research on a New Mathematic Description for Fingerprint Identification 2085 Zhao Ma, Shanyu Tang, Liping Zhang, Linchen Yu, and Sifa Zhang Robust and Efficient Authentication Protocol Based on Elliptic Curve Cryptography for Smart Grids 2089 Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, Yijing Jiang, and Zhao Ma De Bruijn Graph-Based Whole-Genomic Sequence Assembly Algorithms and Applications 2094 Xiaojun Kang, Shanyu Tang, Yongge Ma, Ruixiang Liu, and Yaping Wang Review of Digital Watermarking for 2D-Vector Map 2098 Jinxia Wu, Fan Yang, and Chonglong Wu Real-Time Covert VoIP Communications over Smart Grids by Using AES-Based Audio Steganography 2102 Yijing Jiang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and Zhangbing Zhou Improving Performance of E-Government System from the User Perspective 2108 Hang Zhang, Sifa Zhang, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang ECC-Based Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol with Privacy Protection for VoIP Communications 2114 Shaohui Zhu, Fan Yang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and J. Li Establishment of Security Levels in Trusted Cloud Computing Platforms 2119 Fan Yang, Li Pan, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang Efficient Divisible E-Cash in the Standard Model 2123 Jiangxiao Zhang, Zhoujun Li, Hua Guo, and Chang Xu International Workshop on Secure Smart Objects \(SSO 2013 Towards a Modular and Lightweight Model for Android Development Platforms 2129 Mussab Zneika, Hasan Loulou, Fatiha Houacine, and Samia Bouzefrane Towards a Secure Identity Management in Smartphone Environments 2133 Maryline Laurent, Samia Bouzefrane, and Christophe Kiennert Third International Workshop on Trends and Future of Web Science \(TFWS 2013 Extracting Protein Terminologies in Literatures 2136 Jangwon Gim, Donald J. Kim, Myunggwon Hwang, Sa-kwang Song, Do-Heon Jeong and Hanmin Jung Author Name Disambiguation in Technology Trend Analysis Using SVM and Random Forests and Novel Topic Based Features 2141 Sebastian Kastner, Sung-Pil Choi, and Hanmin Jung Research on Quantum-Bit Error Correction Coding for Smart Grid Substation 2145 Xin Miao and Xi Chen 
xxxii 


Fourth International Workshop on Universal User Modeling and Applications \(UUMA 2013 The Research of MEICSP Model through a REST Web Service 2148 Zhilei Huang, Lingyu Xu, and Yang Liu A Text Association Rules Mining Method Based on Concept Algebra 2153 Feiyue Ye, Jiannan Xiong, and Lingyu Xu Research and Application of the Intelligent Flow 2159 Yang Liu, Lingyu Xu, Liang Chen, and Fei Zhong Application of Hybrid MPI+TBB Parallel Programming Model for Traveling Salesman Problem 2164 Jinke Zhu and Qing Li Data Deduplication Cluster Based on Similarity-Locality Approach 2168 Xingyu Zhang and Jian Zhang The Application of the Knowledge Representation Based on Concept Algebra in the Knowledge Management System of Petroleum Enterprise 2173 Hongjie Duan, Shanpeng Wu, and Feiyue Ye A New Reliable Hybrid Algorithm for Shortening the Expanding Range of Interval 2178 Cheng Chen and Yongmei Lei A Novel Data Encryption in HDFS 2183 Thanh Cuong Nguyen, Wenfeng Shen, Jiwei Jiang, and Weimin Xu The Dynamically Efficient Mechanism of HDFS Data Prefetching 2188 Shaochun Wu, Guobing Zou, Honghao Zhu, Xiang Shuai, Liang Chen, and Bofeng Zhang Multi-granularity Recommendation Based on Ontology User Model 2194 Jianxing Zheng, Bofeng Zhang, and Guobing Zou Friend Recommendation Based on the Similarity of Micro-blog User Model 2200 Fan Tang, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Yajun Gu The Research of Image Detail Enhancement Algorithm with Laplacian Pyramid 2205 Yanwen Teng, Fuyan Liu, and Ruoyu Wu Information Gain with Weight Based Decision Tree for the Employment Forecasting of Undergraduates 2210 Yue Liu, Lingjie Hu, Fei Yan, and Bofeng Zhang A User Model-Based Resource Scheduling Framework 2214 Guannan Hu, Wenhao Zhu, Kangkang Niu, and Wu Zhang A Novel Method of Adopting Graph Reduction for Resource Management in Parallel Computing Model 2218 Shen Chao and Tong Weiqin Sentiment Classification for Topical Chinese Microblog Based on Sentences' Relations 2221 Kang Wu, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Haidong Yao An Anomaly Intrusion Detection Method Based on PageRank Algorithm 2226 Quan Qian, Jianyu Li, Jing Cai, Rui Zhang, and Mingjun Xin 
xxxiii 


Distributed File System and Classification for Small Images 2231 Shaojian Zhuo, Xing Wu, Wu Zhang, Xing Wu, and Wanchun Dou The Possibility of Normal Gait Analysis Based on a Smart Phone for Healthcare 2235 Susu Jiang, Bofeng Zhang, Guobing Zou, and Daming Wei IoT/CPS Demo and Exhibition Mo-Fi: Discovering Human Presence Activity with Smartphones using Non-intrusive Wi-Fi Monitors 2241 Weijun Qin, Hongsong Zhu, Jiadi Zhang, and Bo Li Towards a Pervasive Cloud Computing Based Food Image Recognition 2243 Wenshan Wang, Pengcheng Duan, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao Wireless IoT Platform Based on SDR Technology 2245 Yong Hua Lin, Qing Wang, Jun Song Wang, Ling Shao, and Jianbin Tang Join the Workshop Better with Telepresence Capturer 2247 Pin Tao, Lixin Feng, and Minxi Yu InSciTe Adaptive: R&D Decision Support System for Strategic Foresight 2249 Jangwon Gim, Do-Heon Jeong, Myunggwon Hwang, Sung-Pil Choi, Donald J. Kim Seungwoo Lee, Sa-kwang Song, and Hanmin Jung Author Index 2251 
xxxiv 


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


