Vertical/Horizontal Resource Scaling Mechanism for Federated Clouds   Chien-Yu Liu, Meng-Ru Shie,  Yi-Fang Lee, Yu-Chun Lin  Kuan-Chou Lai Department of Computer Science, National Taichung University of Education, ROC kayooliu, apple020le, xuite627, lin1063086,  kclai.tw}@gmail.com    Abstract\227recently, big data computing in cloud systems is an important issue. Cloud computing tries to satisfy users\222 demands and provide services by sharing hardware and software resources Therefore, using the virtualization technology to enhance system performance is an important goal. In practical, single cloud cannot provide unlimited services with limited physical resources Therefore, this study proposes a vertical/horizontal resource scaling 
mechanism for federated clouds. When single virtual machine is unable to satisfy user requests the proposed mechanism will allocate new resources in the fede rated clouds by vertical/horizontal scaling fashions. In general, horizontal scaling obtains more computing power by adding more virtual machines, and vertical scaling obtains more computing power by adding resources in the virtual machine. The vertical-scaling system not only enhances the system performance but also increases physics machine utilization. But the vertical-scaling system incurs the communication latency problem. Therefore, this study focuses on the vertical /horizontal scaling approach for reducing the minimum turnaround time and for improving the cost efficiency. Our study 
assessments the cloud computing capability by using cost efficiency throughput/price per minute\ Performance for NAS Parallel Benchmarks \(for example, Parallel \(EP\, Conjugate Gradient \(CG Integer Sort \(IS\\ is evaluated. Experimental results show that our approach cloud reduce communication overhead and improve the resource utilization and throughput  Keywords \226 federated cloud, vertical scaling, horizontal scaling I   I NTRODUCTION  In recent years, cloud computing is a significant IT development. Cloud computing could support convenience and efficient computing power. However, single cloud cannot provide unlimited services with limited physical resources in 
the datacenter. Therefore, obtaining unlimited resources from federated clouds is an important issue in dynamic provisioning Services in cloud computing could be classified into IaaS infrastructure as a service\, PaaS \(platform as a service\ and SaaS \(software as a service\. Virtualization technology is the most important technology for cloud computing. Virtualization technology establishes the abstract layer above physical machines. By using virtualization technology, the cloud system integrates physics machines into the virtual resource pool In general, the resource scaling approach includes vertical scaling and horizontal scaling. Horizontal scaling obtains more computing power by adding more virtual 
machines, and vertical scaling obtains more computing power by adding resources in the virtual machine. When the load of requested services varies, the general resource auto-scaling mechanism usually varies the required resources by increasing or decreasing the number of virtual machines \(horizontal elasticity\ However, in some cases, the vertical scaling approach by varying the resources in the virtual machine is necessary for reducing the communication overhead. By the way, when the load of services changes, the allocated virtual machines maybe need to be repacked for better performance Therefore, this study proposes a vertical/horizontal scaling mechanism for different resource scaling situations 
The proposed approach could improve the resource utilization and reduce communication overhead. Our approach includes two phases. The first phase analyzes the execution pattern of applications and the cost/efficiency of resources in the federated clouds. In the second phase, the proposed approach allocates resources according the cost/efficiency and the execution pattern of applications for improving system performance This paper is organized as follows. Section II discusses related work and motivation. Section III presents the proposed methodology. Section IV presents experimental results. Section V analyzes the results and evaluates the efficacy of this study The final section gives the conclusions and future works 
II  B ACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION  This section introduces the federated cloud [1 an d  Rightscale. Cloud computing adopts the pay-as-you-go model by using virtualization technology. Virtualization technology 7 ner a t e s t h e ab s t ra ct l a y e r abo v e cl o u d O S fra m e w o rk  Therefore, users can use cloud services in any place Our work refers to Taiwan UniCloud [17 w h ic h co n s ist s  of SSCloud \(virtual machine leasing service\, SSBOX personal cloud storage\, SSDB \(SQL to NoSQL database service\, and SSBDS \(Big data service\. The objective of UniCloud is to provide a cloud platform for education and 
research purposes among academic communities. Our approach focuses on resource vertical/horizontal scaling [16   so this study adopts horizontal elasticity scaling and vertical elasticity [9  1 2  s c alin g   W h en th e l o ad v a ri es  th e h o r i z o n t al  scaling approach scales up virtual clusters to improve performance and the vertical scaling one scales up the virtual machine type to improve performance. Therefore, our study makes decision according the communication behavior   Rightscale [5 6 is a m u lti-clo u d m a n a g e m e n t p l atf o rm   Rightscale could create virtual machines, migrate virtual 978-1-4799-4441-5/14/$31.00 \2512014 IEEE 


machines \(in the same public domain\ and resource auto scaling. Rightscale is powerful for management multi-cloud but it cannot support the virtual cluster cross different clouds Our approach could create the virtual cluster cross different clouds. Although Rightscale and AWS could provide elasticity scaling, Rightscale and AWS donít consider communication issues III  S YSTEM ARCHITECTURE  Figure 1 shows our system architecture [10  Ou r s y s t em  adopts the GRE tunnel to form the federated cloud   Figure1. System architecture  The underlying architecture consists of different independent clouds. Users can create the virtual cluster from different clouds in the federated system. The virtual clusters are built over different clouds in the federated cloud  This architecture consists of the private cloud in NTHU \(3 machines\d the one in NTCU \(3 machines\ed by using OpenStack. The OS is ubuntu 13.04, the hypervisor is KVM 3.5.0-23. The cloud OS is OpenStack \(Grizzly\. The hardware list is shown in Table 1. The machines in NTHU are Intel X5670 2.93GHz \(24 cores\ CPU with 24G RAM. The two machines in NTCU are Intel E5520 2.27GHz \(16 cores\ with 18G RAM IV  Methodology and result Before introducing the proposed mechanism, the function of finding the minimum cost is defined first. The proposed approach chooses the minimum cost \(throughput/price  from vertical and horizontal configuration, and the minimum passing by the user's SLA. The first step is to find the optimal configuration in terms of the number of VMs for horizontal/vertical scaling for applications with desired SLAs and with the minimum cost   000\020\000ã\000ê\000ã\000è\000ã\000ú\000 000\006\000ë\000ï\000 015L 015 007J 013 005€\007L 013 013 013‹\013@\0134  1 015Õ\007J 013 005€\007L 013 015R\0076 013Â\013ÿ\013 013 013 013 0134  2  Where p i and t i are the price and the throughput of VM type i respectively; n is the number of VM types; T req is the throughput required to provide the desired performance, and n i  is the number allocated instances of VM type i We will profile the communication pattern of applications first. Deciding the configuration of virtual machines depends on the following conditions  1  Configure VMs in single cloud \(Vertical  2  When one cloud cannot satisfy the requirement of applications, VMs are created in the same cloud as much as possible. If one cloud could not satisfy the resource requirement, we will create remaining VMs in other clouds \(Horizontal  3  When the resource in the federated cloud cannot satisfy the requirement of this application, then skip this application, select next application      Table 1. Hardware specification of the experimental environment  Hardware  Information Software Version Site CPU\(processors\ RAM OS Hypervisor OpenStack NTHU Controller Compute1 Compute2 Intel X5670 2.93GHz * 24 Intel X5670 2.93GHz * 24 Intel X5670 2.93GHz * 24 24GB 24GB 24GB Ubuntu 13.04 Ubuntu 13.04 Ubuntu 13.04 KVM 3.5.0-23 KVM 3.5.0-23 KVM 3.5.0-23 Grizzly Grizzly Grizzly NTCU Controller Compute1 Compute2 Intel E5520 2.27GHz * 16 Intel E5520 2.27GHz * 16 Intel E5520 2.27GHz * 16 18GB 18GB 18GB Ubuntu 13.04 Ubuntu 13.04 Ubuntu 13.04 KVM 3.5.0-23 KVM 3.5.0-23 KVM 3.5.0-23 Grizzly Grizzly Grizzly   


Algo1. Horizontal vs. Vertical Filter_ Sched u Input C: Cloud of number Request: application request of resource T: application request turnaround time \(SLA  Resource: cloud resource of free Loading: PM Utilization  When job come to portal Getting VC RCPU & RRAM & T \(SLA\ req u Profiling application and obtain communicat i Updating every cloud resource \(CPU & R A If application communication weight 004 10   If the C i resource of free 004 request If the biggest VM type 004 reques Choosing the minimum co s Creating VM type \(Single c Creating VC \(Single cloud  Creating VC \(Federal Clo u Else Choosing the minimum co s Creating VC \(Single cloud  Creating VC \(Federal Clo u Else Creating VC \(Federal Cloud Else Creating VC \(Federal Cloud  Goal minimum cost   The proposed algorithm consid e conditions, where C is the number of turnaround time of requests with SLA; Req u requirement of applications; the goal of t h obtain the minimum cost Table 2 shows the virtual machine typ e the VM prices in Amazon Elastic Comput e EC2\. Our approach considers five virtu a tiny, small, medium, large and xlarge\. Be c in our system is heterogeneous, the price lower than the original one  u ling   u es t  i o n weight A M & Loading   t  s t c loud   u d st    u d e rs three above clouds; T is the u es t is the resource h is algorithm is to e s, which refers to e Cloud \(Amazon a l machines types c ause the hardware may be higher or  Figure2. Turnaroun d Figure3. Turnaroun d Figure4. Turnaro u  In this study, we adopts small, medium, large, and xlar g Table 2. Price of virt u Type Site Tiny Small NTHU $2.93 5.85 NTCU $2.27 4.50  d time of CG \(Class C   d time of EP \(Class C   u nd time of IS \(Class C OpenStack to provide the tiny g e VMs for virtual clusters; and  u al machine per second  Medium Large Xlarge 11.50 $23.00 $45.00 9.00 $18.00 $35.00 


NAS Parallel Benchmarks, including Embarrassingly Parallel in the cloudî, Future Generation Computer Systems,Vol 29, Issue 1 EP\, the Conjugate Gradient \(CG\ and the Integer Sort \(IS January 2013, pp. 218ñ229 are evaluated. Experimental results are shown in Figure 2 3  Paul Marshall, Henry Tufo, Kate Keahey, ìProvisioning Policies for Elastic Computing Environments,î, IEEE International Parallel and Figure 3 and, Figure 4. In Figure 2, the turnaround time of the Distributed Processing Symposium Workshops, 2012,  pp.1085-1094 003  CG increases when the scale of clusters becomes larger. The 4  D Bailey, E Barszcz, J Barton, D Browning, R Carter, L Dagum, R main reason is that IS has the irregular communication pattern Fatoohi, S Fineberg, P Frederickson, T Lasinski, R Schreiber, H Simon when the scale of clusters becomes larger, the benefit with V Venkatakrishnan and S Weeratunga , ìThe NAS Parallel Benchmarksî , RNR -94-007, 1994 March  more resources may be overcame by the communication 003 5  RightScale Cloud Management, RightScale, Inc. [Online A v ail a bl e  overhead. Therefore, it would be better to adopt the vertical http://www.rightscale.com  scaling approach to improve performance 6  RightScale Load Balance in the Cloud : Tools , Tips and Techniques In Figure 3, because EP almost has no communication Inc. [Online A v ail a bl e   http://www.rightscale.com  cost, our approach could enlarge VMs as much as possible, by 7  Ron C. Chiang and H. Howie Huang, ìTRACON Interference-Aware using vertical scaling  Ther efore, the proposed algorithm omits Scheduling for Data-Intensive Applications in Virtualized the influence of communication, and only focuses on the Environmentsî, New York: ACM, 2011 configuration with the minimal cost 8  Lee R. ìLoad-Balancing Tactics in Cloudî, Cyber-Enabled Distributed Computing and Knowledge Discovery \(CyberC\, 2011 International In Figure 4, the communication in IS is stable, so the Conference on ,pp. 447 ñ 454 proposed approach tries to enlarge the VM by vertical scaling 9  Xiaocheng Liu ; Inf. & Manage. Sch., Nat. Univ.ofDefense Technol for avoiding communication overhead Priority-Based Consolidation ofParallel Workloads in the Cloud In general, the turnaround time by using vertical scaling is IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed System Vol. 24, No shorter than that by using horizontal scaling 9,September 2013   Moreno-Vozmediano, R. , ìIaaS Cloud Architecture: From Virtualized V  C  Datacenters to Federated Cloud Infrastructuresî,IEEEComputer  , Vol45 ONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORKS Issue12, Dec. 2012 , pp. 65 ñ 72 Cloud computing could provide services to satisfy userís   RajkumarBuyya, Rajiv Ranjan, and Rodrigo N. Calheiros, ìInterCloud demand. When userís demand increases, the cloud provider has Utility-Oriented Federation of Cloud Computing Environments for to get more and more resources to avoid SLAs. However Scaling of Application Services presented at the Proceedings of the 10th international conference on Algorithms and Architectures for single cloud cannot provide unlimited resources. Therefore Parallel Processing, Busan, Korea, 2010, pp. 13-31 this study proposes a vertical/horizontal resource scaling   Rodrigo N. Calheiros, Adel NadjaranToosi, Christian Vecchiola, and mechanism to allocate resources in the federated cloud RajkumarBuyya, ìA Coordinator for Scaling Elastic Applications Experimental results show that resource horizontal and vertical Across Multiple Cloudsî,FutureGeneration Computer Systems, Vol. 28 scaling can improve the system throughput No. 8, 2012, pp. 1350-1362 In the future, our study will exploit the performance impacts   Jose Luis Lucas-Simarro, ìScheduling strategies for optimal service deployment across multiple cloudsî ,FutureGeneration Computer by analyzing the application behavior. In the meantime, we Systems, Vol 29, Issue 6, August 2013, pp. 1431ñ1441 will evaluate more and more benchmarks to identify the   Zaman,S., ìCombinatorial Auction-Based Dynamic VM Provisioning distinction between the horizontal and vertical scaling  and Allocation in Cloudsî , Cloud Computing Technology and Science CloudCom\, 2011 IEEE Third International Conference on, , USA A  Nov. 29 2011-Dec. 1 2011, pp. 107 ñ 114 CKNOWLEDGMENT   Beloglazov, A, ìCombinatorial Auction-Based Dynamic VM This study was sponsored by the National Science Council Provisioning and Allocation in Cloudsî, Parallel and Distributed Taiwan, the Republic of China, under contract numbers: NSC Systems, IEEE Transactions on , Vol:24 ,  Issue: 7 , Australia , July 101-2221-E-142-001- and NSC 102-2221-E-142 -002, and 2013, pp.1366 - 1379 Delta Electronics Inc. under contract number: 101F2289A8   Mina S, ìA virtual machine re-packing approach to the horizontal vs vertical elasticity trade-off for cloud autoscalingî, CAC '13 Proceedings R  of the 2013 ACM Cloud and Autonomic Computing , Article No. 6 EFERENCES New York, NY, USA , 2013 1  Michael, K.  and Miller, K.W., ì Big Data: New Opportunities and New   Wu-Chun Chung, Po-Chi Shih, Kuan-Chou Lai, Kuan-Ching Li, CheChallengesî, Computer  Vol:46 ,  Issue: 6 , June 2013, pp.22 ñ 24 Rung Lee, Jerry Chou, Ching-Hsien Hsu, and Yeh-Ching Chung 2  Roberto R. ExpÛsito , Guillermo L. Taboada , Sabela Ramos , Juan Taiwan UniCloud: A Cloud Testbed with Collaborative Cloud TouriÒo and RamÛn Doallo ìPerformance analysis of HPC applications Services,î IEEE International Conference on Cloud Engineering \(IC2E 2014, Boston, USA  


4.1.4 Big Data Analytics as a Service 4.2.1. Strategic factors 
oblem, the benefit of çsimplyé connecting   s. Typically, an organizationês 
organizational position of Big Data analytic 
coupling of MapReduce systems and RDBMS [28  The loose-coupled approach might appear most valuable on first sight because it theoretically allows for connecting any MapReduce system with an RDBMS. Lacking interface standardization however causes problems such as co mplicated data transfer or optimization between both systems [18 Due to this  pr some systems proves fallacious to some degree leading to the just mentioned low adoption rates In summary, regardless of which approach a company chooses, a hybrid strategy allows to efficiently handle Big Data without struggling with some of the problems depicted for the pure RDBMS or MapReduce strategy. Still, performance of hybrid systems does not at least at the moment exceed that of uncombined strategies [18  R ather, su c h  systems process and analyze data with large volume variety and velocity within acceptable performance and fault boundaries. From a financial point of view the hybrid strategy approach is more expensive than an uncombined strategy [27  W h ile t h e poten tiall y  high licensing costs can predominantly be ascribed to the RDBMS involved often more processing power and storage is needed leading to higher hardware expenses. However, researchers as well as software vendors are currently putting efforts in the development of hybrid solutions that become increasingly performant. Prominent examples are HadoopDB \(MapReduce-dominant\ [28 29 th e  Oracle in-database Hadoop [30 Microsof t  w h o  announced their PolyBase technology in November 2012 [31  o r Green p lum  32 w h o all build u p on a traditional RDBMS system \(RDBMS-dominant The fourth strategy for dealing with Big Data is to buy in Big Data capabilities. The supply of BDAaaS solutions is rapidly increasing and the variety of vendors is large Tresata, for instance has specialized on analyzing bankin oth e r exa m ple is  C l ou dera [17 who offers a large variety of BDAaaS solutions for different industries. Therefore, organizations tackling the BDAaaS strategy are likely to find suitable solutions for their specific context As the infrastructure for BDAaaS is hosted in the cloud, the costs for BDAaaS in organizations are far more flexible than the costs of implementing inhouse Big Data solutions. In addition, the economies of scale and scope realized at the side of the vendor allow them to perform Big Data analytics more efficiently than an average company could do [34   This is especially interesting for smaller organizations, which often do not have sufficient resources and expertise to realize Big Data analytics cost- and resource-efficient in-house and thus have an interest in utilizing off-the-shelf solutions However, BDAaaS has limitations as well. The most critical limitation arises from the data privacy and security discussions that are relevant for all cloud-based services. Especially in operating environments in which sensitive data has to be analyzed in the cloud, an encryption during the data transmission is inevitable. Operating with encrypted data however is yet a problem for most BDAaaS solutions [34  F u r th er  d ata po licy is alread y an  important issue, when Big Data is analyzed using internally-secured infrastructure. Therefore, shifting such analyses into the cloud may be problematic for some companies, if not impossible. Besides, there is no definite answer, yet, on how to exchange data between cloud providers and company-internal infrastructure [34  A s a res u lt  m a ny clo u d prov iders  offer Big Data analytics only for company-external data that can be retrieved without access to internal infrastructures, or they limit their analytics to specific platforms \(e.g. Cloudera [17 lto g ether B D A a a S  is particularly valuable for organizations for which the implementation of own Big Data analytics is either too expensive, limited to external data, or not of strategic importance Choosing an appropriate Big Data strategy requires consideration of various contingencies such as current business strategy understandability of Big Data insights to end-users, and structure and complexity of organizational processes [2 B ased on  our analysis of the Big Data and data warehouse literature \(see Section 3\, we identified eight different factors that were grouped into three dimensions strategic factors, resource factors and operating environment factors \(Figure 2\. In the following paragraphs the eight contingency factors will be introduced and analyzed with regard to their specific impact on Big Data strategy choice. Based on this analysis we derive a contingency matrix that provides decision support for practitioners in Big Data strategy choice The first contingency factor in this group is the preference for a certain IT infrastructure is influenced by their strategic objectives [10 35  Data anal y tic s  have traditionally played an important role in customer-oriented businesses such as retailing marketing, or banking [6 rprisi n g l y   m a ny o f  the companies who are first movers in Big Data 
4.2. Contingency factors for strategy choice 
3752 


projectês benefits Business environments with greater turbulence systems that provide accurate information righté approach \(e.g 
Strategic factors Resource factors Operating environment factors Strategy choice 
sponsorship level Urgency resource availability 
Urgency Hybrid DFS & MapReduce BDAaaS RDBMS No integration of Big Data technology into existing environment Full integration of Big Data technology into existing environment     
Figure 2. Contingency factor s relevant for Big Data strategy choice 
 
Relevance of Big Data analytics Sponsorship level Resource availability IT personnel abilities Absorptive capacity Task routineness Data privacy 
4.2.2. Resource factors 
       
analytics or at least very interested in the technology are also from these industries [20  W ith t h e  possibility of making use of Big Data technologies new differentiation possibilities emerge, and the state of competition  in the  respective  industry  sectors might be shifted [8 e y o n d in du s t r y speci f ities  LaValle et al. [2 f ied t h ree diff ere n t B i g Data  application scenarios \(justify actions, guide actions and prescribe actions\at have direct implications for choosing a Big Data strategy. In line with these authors, we argue that companies who have a strong interest in guiding or prescribing actions will regularly have to analyze external as well as internal data pools A need for sophisticated extraction and loading capabilities results as they can be found in the MapReduce or also in intelligent hybrid approaches. Furthermore, due to high strategic relevance, setup costs are probably not too relevant for such companies [27  In organizations in which there is a rather low strategic position assigned to data analysis, facing Big Data with traditional RDBMS approaches can display a worthwhile alternative. Only when the strategic importance of data analysis is on the lower end, a BDAaaS approach should be considered As with many other IS investments the decision for a Big Data strategy also heavily depends on the of the planned project within the organization [12 35  S pon s orsh ip co m p rises t h e  allocation of resources for a project, the fighting off of political resistance, and the promotion of the within the organization Accordingly, also in the case of Big Data sponsorship level from business units as well as upper management is an important factor for strategy choice. Consequently, IT organizations that face a rather low sponsorship for Big Data should revert to BDAaaS approaches or to existing infrastructures such as RDBM  will experience greater urgency for information 35, p   hence, refers to how timely Big Data analytics are required. Switching from a traditional data warehousing approach \(based on RDBMS\ to a hybrid or MapReduce approach is time-consuming 19 29 h e ot h e r h a nd keepin g or exte nding an  existent RDBMS may yield results earlier than switching to a new system, thus, reducing the time to value [2 A l so e m plo y ing  B D A a aS ca n displa y a worthwhile alternative in times of high urgency However, considering the large amount of different BDAaaS providers on the market, choosing the in terms of future costs\ might be very time-consuming Resource factors refer to the resource constraints of an organization when deciding for a strategy to tackle Big Data. The first factor in this group is in terms of money and human resources [12 36 th e a m o u n t  of resources available for implementation impacts strategy choice. While large organizations can afford implementing more complex and comprehensive solutions such as hybrid approaches [5 s m all  companies and start-ups may want to keep costs low or at least flexible [27  C o n s eq u e n t l y t h e y  m i gh t  think about a MapReduce or BDAaaS approach. This is also fostered by the fact that startups in contrast to large companies have not a grown infrastructure introducing completely new solution is not a big issue for them [10 27   
3753 


companyês IT  preexisting knowledge an organizationês implications for a companyês a ç+é assessment hybrid strategy is only slightly better than a çpure RDBMS approach \(resulting in a ç+/oé assessment 
abilities of the IT personnel absorptive capacity task routineness data privacy 
4.2.3 Operating environment factors 
5. Synthesis and discussion 
While organizational size is often positively correlated with the availability of resources [5 37  it can be argued that start-ups, although they have limited budget and employees often have knowledgeable staff who are willing to implement technological-edge solutions. Ravichandran [38  also showed that the adoption and development of complex technologies is impeded by knowledge barriers. Therefore, the are an important contingency factor for Big Data strategy choice. More expe rienced and skilled teams will be able to implement systems of higher complexity such as MapReduce or hybrid approaches, that require deep knowledge from the personnel not only while implementation, but also during operation [5 9 One  possibility for creating suffici ent expertise within the organization is training the existent staff. Another way is hiring additional staff. Both possibilities however, require activation of financial resources. In cases in which this is no t possible, an RDBMS or BDAaaS strategy should be pursued The third contingency factor we identified is  Absorptive capacity is the ability of key organizational members to utilize available or 2 h a s  been shown to be a key driver for innovativeness [39 particu larl y co n c ern i n g t h e u s e  of analytics to improve the business [2 A s t h e potential of Big Data is rath er diverse and exceeds the possibilities of traditional data warehousing systems, absorptive capacity influences the choice of a Big Data strategy. If employees do not understand the value of an innovative IT system, they will rarely make use of it [37  T h eref ore, in trodu cin g a  MapReduce system with its completely new opportunities might be difficult for companies with low absorptive capacity Such companies should rather use traditional RDBMS or a BDAaaS strategy to tackle Big Data analysis These factors describe the circumstances of daily operations The first factor in this group is  Routine tasks are structured and repetitive, whereas nonroutine tasks occur in ad hoc situations and require unique solutions [40  T h e m o re routine tasks are in a company, the less processing capacity in data analytics is needed [35  bec a use opti m ized qu erie s can be re-used many times. Due to the complex programming language it takes rather long to formulate queries on typical Big Data systems based on MapReduce [19  T h i s f a ct  m a k e s t h e M a p R ed u c e  approach less appropriate for environments with low task routineness in which frequent manipulation of queries is highly realistic Instead, RDBMS or hybrid approaches are very valuable. However, the MapReduce strategy is valuable in environments with high task routineness, because regularly the same queries are run and new data are frequently loaded The second contingency factor of the operating environment is  With information from customers being multiplied and shared across the globe, privacy is a crucial issue more than ever [41  Therefore, policy makers must address the problems in privacy legislation and understand both, merit and danger of Big Data collection [42  F u r th er m o re wit h  rising economic interest in Big Data, it becomes increasingly interesting for attackers [8 Hence, data  privacy has not only legal, but also technological Big Data strategy Where data privacy is of high relevance, a BDAaaS strategy is not suitable because the company has only very limited impact on where the data is stored and processed [34  A l so, choosing a MapRed u c e strateg y could be an issue because security of distributed file systems \(which are used in MapReduce strategies still shows various security weaknesses. Therefore, as of today, utilizing RDBMS-based approaches depicts probably the most secure strategy Based on the above discussion, we find that different organizational environments pursue different requirements on a Big Data strategy To better support practitioners in Big Data strategy choice, we compared the four identified Big Data strategies regarding how well they addressed each of the contingency factors. We have summarized our findings in the contingency matrix in Table 1. For instance and as discussed above, when the relevance of Big Data analytics is high in a company, the MapReduce strategy seems most fruitful \(resulting in see Section 4.2.1\. However, also a hybrid solution might be valuable in case it follows a MapReduce-dominant approach [18 If in t u rn a n  RDBMS-dominant implementation is chosen, the  Several patterns are obser vable for the different factor categories. For instance, we can see that BDAaaS is negatively associated with nearly all of the contingency factors. By contrast, we find both the MapReduce as well as hybrid strategy being positively associated with most of them. The RDBMS strategy again has turned out to be a suitable approach in nearly all situations as long as expectations towards Big Data processing performance are not too high. In cases in which 
3754 


RDBMS BDAaaS MapReduce Hybrid 
Table 1. Impact of identified contingenc y factors on Big Data strategy choice 
o = Neutral      + = High      = Low 
Strategic factors Resource factors Operating environment factors 
performance plays a more important role, hybrid approaches comprise a workable trade-off between costs, processing, and analysis performance. We therefore argue that the RDBMS strategy might be a valuable option for companies who want to explore the potential of Big Data analytics. As soon as requirements towards Big Data processing increase switching to a hybrid or MapReduce strategy should be considered. This finding is consistent with Lavalle  h o s ugg est i n troducin g Bi g Data s tep w i s e  starting with existing RDBMS, companies should consider more sophisticated approaches such as hybrid or MapReduce systems when sufficient experience with Big Data analytics has been gained and strategic potentials can be clearly articulated Looking at specific industries and company structures, several insights can be derived. For instance in manufacturing companies ERP systems and relational databases are traditionally highly relevant. Hence, the IT employees are adept at using and implementing such systems. Additionally, the manufacturing systems in modern factories produce large amounts of heterogeneous data that call for advanced analytical techniques, which must allow for frequent and fast execution of standardized and adhoc queries \(e.g. to quickly determine production barriers or disturbances\Considering these analytical requirements together with the specific RDBMS abilities of the IT employees, we find that companies of the production sector would benefit from an RDBMS strategy most In turn, in retailing and marketing companies, for which data analytics have a high strategic relevance, IT personnel is typically well trained in data analytics, and the data to be analyzed changes frequently, a MapReduce approach is very promising. However, looking at the operating environment, issues of data privacy are typically of high importance as well. Hence, a hybrid strategy might be an option worth considering, especially in cases in which existing organizational data warehouse infrastructures have to be reused Relevance of Big Data analytics o  o Sponsorship level o o Urgency  o o Resource availability o o  IT personnel abilities o   Absorptive capacity  o Task routineness o o  o/Data privacy  o/o The BDAaaS approach is \(as many other cloudbased applications are most useful for smaller usage scenarios. For instance, a company which might want to explore the potentials of Big Data analytics may perform a pilot with a BDAaaS approach before introducing extensive in-house solutions that also perform Big Data analyses on internal data. Also small or family businesses and start-ups should consider such an approach because it offers higher flexibility than an internal solution Altogether, we conclude that the combination of traditional RDBMSs with DFS and MapReduce technologies is a workable approach in many Big Data scenarios. This finding might not be surprising and is also underlined by the rising attention hybrid approaches receive in va rious publications [e.g. 18 29 43 Ho w e v e r, it sh o u ld be n o ted t h at hy brid  systems are still far from reaching performance of uncombined approaches \(see also Section 4.1.3 particular, the appropriateness of a hybrid solution is highly dependent upon whether a MapReduce- or RDBMS-dominant implementation was used. For instance, to date many RDBMS-dominant approaches tend to produce erroneou s results under certain circumstances [18 19  Hence, choosing a hy brid  without deep understanding of its structural 
3755 


 
1  P a rk Y T  A n E m p irical In v e stigatio n o f th e Ef f e cts  of Data Warehousing on Decision Performance Information & Management, 43\(1\, 2006, pp. 51-61 2 L a v a lle, S., L e sser, E., S h o c k l e y R., Hop k in s M.S    and Kruschwitz, N., "Big Data Analytics and the Path from Insights to Value", Sloan Management Review, 52\(2 2011, pp. 20-31 3 A rg y ris, C., an d Sch  n  D.A Org an iza tio n a l L earn in g  A Theory of Action Perspective, Addison-Wesley Pub. Co 1978 4 L a n e y  D., 3 d Da ta Man a g e m e n t Con t r o lli n g Da ta Volume, Velocity, and Variety,  Stanford,  2001 5 A l m e id a, F., an d Calistru  C T h e Main Challen g es  and Issues of Big Data Management", International Journal of Research Studies in Computing, 2\(1\, 2013, pp. 11-20 6 A n g  J., an d T e o  T  S.H  M an ag e m en t Issu e s in Da ta  Warehousing: Insights from the Housing and Development Board", Decision Support Systems, 29\(1\, 2000, pp. 11-20 7 Sh irer M., an d M u rray  P I d c P re d icts: 2 0 1 2 W ill Be the Year of Mobile and Cloud Platform Wars as It Vendors Vie for Leadership While the Industry Redefines Itself IDC Analyze,  2011 8 Man y ika, J., Chu i M Bro w n B., B u g h in, J., Do b b s   R., Roxburgh, C., and Hung Byers, A., "Big Data: The Next Frontier for Innovation, Competition, and Productivity", in \(Editor, 'ed.'^'eds.'\k Big Data: The Next Frontier for Innovation, Competition, and Productivity, McKinsey Global Institute, 2011 9 Chen H., Chia n g R.H.L  and Storey, V.C., "Business Intelligence and Analytics: From Big Data to Big Impact MIS Quarterly, 36\(4\, 2012, pp. 1165-1188 10 Dum b ill, E W h at Is Big Da ta  A n I n tro d u ctio n t o th e  Big Data Landscape., Strata,  2012 11 M o r g a n T I b m G l oba l T e c hnol og y  O u t l ook 2 0 1 2    Warwick,  2012 12 Na ir, R., an d Na ray a n a n  A    G e ttin g Results f ro m Big  Data - a Capabilities-Driven Approach to the Strategic Use of Unstructured Information, Booz & Company,  2012 13  V ieri n g G L e g n er, C., an d A h lem an n  F  T h e  Lacking\erspective on Soa Critical Themes in Soa Research", 9. Internationale Tagung Wirtschaftsinformatik, 2009, pp. 45-54 14 W e b ster, J an d W a t son R T A n a l y zin g th e P a st t o  Prepare for the Future: Writing a Literature Review", MIS Quarterly, 26\(2\, 2002, pp. xiii-xxiii 15 Co o p e r, H.M  Sy n t h e sizin g Res earch  a G u id e f o r Literature Reviews, Sage Publications, 3rd edn,  1998 16 St o ller J A sses sing th e Big Da ta Challen g e  CM A Magazine \(1926-4550\, 86\(2\, 2012, pp. 18-19 
6. Conclusion 7. References 
characteristics may lead to unsatisfactory results and should be avoided In this paper, we aimed at providing guidance for companies on how to approach the phenomenon of Big Data. Based on a review of existing scientific as well as practitioner literature, we identified four Big Data strategies and discussed them regarding contingencies influencing strategy choice. The eight respective contingency factors can be grouped into three dimensions, namely strategy, resources, and operating environment. Although other authors have already discussed context factors that might influence Big Data strategy choice [e.g. 36 44 a s tru ctured  analysis of such contingency factors has not been performed so far. We therefore contribute to the still limited research on Big Data by providing a basis for future discussions on the adequacy and success of various Big Data strategies for differing corporate environments. As illustrated by the analysis of the opportunities and challenges of Big Data in this paper, organizational decision makers need to start thinking about whether and how to facilitate Big Data analytics. They therefore benefit from our research by gaining a better understanding of the different facets they should consider before deciding on Big Data solution investments Bearing these contributions in mind, our research also has limitations. One limitation relates to the literature search and selection which might be biased by subjective interpretations and preferences. Beyond that due to scarcity of scientific research on Big Data we also relied on practitioner literature, for which objectivity of findings cannot always be assured. This scarcity clearly calls for more research, especially as most research focused on technological aspects while only a very limited number also deals with organizational [9  4 1  4 2   T h u s  we believe that future research should make efforts to understand the impact Big Data may have on corporate environments as well as on society. For instance, expert interviews or exploratory case studies could be used to confirm, refine, and extend or contingency matrix 
3756 


17 Clou d e ra, T h e P latf o r m  f o r Big Da ta an d th e L e ad in g  Solution for Apache Hadoop in the Enterprise http://www.cloudera.com/content/cloudera/en/home.html  2013 18 G ru sk a N., an d Martin  P   In teg ratin g Map red u ce and Rdbmss", Proceedings of the 2010 Conference of the Center for Advanced Studies on Collaborative Research 2010, pp. 212-223 19  P a v l o  A  P a u lso n  E Rasin, A A b ad i, D.J., De w i tt D.J., Madden, S., and Stonebraker, M., "A Comparison of Approaches to Large-Scale Data Analysis", Proceedings of the 2009 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2009, pp. 165-178 20 Ban g e, C., G ro sser, T an d Ja n o sc h ek N Big Da ta  Survey Europe - Nutzung, Technologie Und Budgets Europ‰ischer Best Practice Unternehmen", in \(Editor ed.'^'eds.'\k Big Data Survey Europe - Nutzung Technologie Und Budgets Europ‰ischer Best Practice Unternehmen, Business Appli cation Research Center BARC\¸rzburg, 2013 21 De w itt, D., an d  G ra y  J P arallel Da tabas e S y ste m s  The Future of High Performance Database Systems Commun. ACM, 35\(6\, 1992, pp. 85-98 22 Ora cle P a rallel P r o ces sing & Parallel Databases Oracle Corporation,  1997 23 Ja co b s, A  T h e P a tho l o g ie s o f Big Da t a   Co mm u n   ACM, 52\(8\, 2009, pp. 36-44 24 Ke lly  J., V e lla n te, D an d F lo y er, D., Big Da ta Market Size and Vendor Revenues, Wikibon,  2013 25 De an J an d G h e m a w at, S M ap red u ce: Sim p lif ied Data Processing on Large Clusters", Commun. ACM 51\(1\, 2008, pp. 107-113 26 Xu Y., K o stam a a, P., a n d G a o  L  I n teg ratin g  Hadoop and Parallel Dbms", Proceedings of the 2010 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of data, 2010, pp. 969-974 27  P r o f f itt, B., Ha d o o p  V s. A n Rdb m s: How Mu ch L ess  Would You Pay?, ITworld,  2012 28  Ston eb rak e r, M A b ad i, D De w itt, D.J., Ma d d e n  S   Paulson, E., Pavlo, A., and Rasin, A., "Mapreduce and Parallel Dbmss: Friends or Foes?", Commun. ACM, 53\(1 2010, pp. 64-71 29 A b o u zei d  A Bajd a P a w l iko w s k i, K., A b ad i, D  Silberschatz, A., and Rasin, A., "Hadoopdb: An Architectural Hybrid of Mapreduce and Dbms Technologies for Analytical Workloads", Proc. VLDB Endow., 2\(1\, 2009, pp. 922-933 30 S u n  H., an d He ller P., Ora cle In f o rm atio n  Architecture: An Architect's Guide to Big Data., Oracle Redwood Shores,  2012 31 L a b  G  S Po ly b a se Microsof t Mad iso n   2 0 1 2   32 G reen p lu m  A Uni f ied En g in e f o r Rdb m s an d  Mapreduce www.greenplum.com/technology/mapreduce  2013 33 Ke lly  J T r esa t a  G o es D eep o n Big Da ta  f o r Ban k in g   Silicon Angle,  2012 34 De m irkan H., an d De len, D  L ev e r ag in g th e Capabilities of Service Oriented Decision Support Systems: Putting Analytics and Big Data in Cloud Decision Support Systems, 55\(1\, 2013, pp. 412-421 35 A r i y ac ha ndr a  T a n d W a t s on, H  K e y  Organizational Factors in Data Warehouse Architecture Selection", Decis. Support Syst., 49\(2\, 2010, pp. 200-212 36 Russo m P Big Da ta A n al y tics T D W I Re se arch    2011 37 Ram a m u rth y  K., Sen  A  an d Sinh a, A  P  A n  Empirical Investigation of the Key Determinants of Data Warehouse Adoption", Decision Support Systems, 44\(4 2008, pp. 817-841 38 Rav ichan d r an  T  I n n o v atio n A s si m i latio n in th e  Presence of Knowledge Barriers, Technology Uncertainty and Adoption Risks", Academy of Management Proceedings, 2001\(1\, 2001, pp. C1-C6 39 Sam b a m u rth y  V an d Zm u d  R.W  A rran g e m e n ts  for Information Technology Governance: A Theory of Multiple Contingencies", MIS Quarterly, 23\(2\, 1999, pp 261-290 40 G o o d h u e  D  L a n d T hom ps on R  L  T a s k Technology Fit and Individual Performance", MIS Quarterly, 19\(2\, 1995, pp. 213-236 4 T e n e  O an d  P o l o n e tsky  J   P rivacy in th e A g e o f  Big Data", Stanford Law Review OnlineFebruary\013 42 Craig, T   an d L u d l o f f  M E P r ivac y an d Big Da ta O'Reilly,  Sebastopool,  2011 43  Su  X a n d Sw a r t G   O ra c l e i n D a t a b a s e H a doop   When Mapreduce Meets Rdbms", Proceedings of the 2012 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2012, pp. 779-790 44 Mcaf ee  A an d Br y n jo lf s son E Big Da ta T h e  Management Revolution. \(Cover Story\, Harvard Business Review, 90\(10\, 2012, pp. 60-68 
3757 


    11   Figure 21 Tail functions for the spacecraft power consumption \(due to data availability only ADCS components and avionics board are considered in this plot\. The plot shows results for data statistic, two expert statistics \(proportional and bisection weights\ and two Bayesian statistics. The vertical dotted and dashed lines indicate t he estimates at PDR and CDR. It can be noticed that in this case the statistics \(especially Bayesian\ fail in recognizing the underestimation at PDR  Differently from the other cases the risk analysis for the total power consumption shows some problems Specifically the statistics do not seem to identify the underestimation of the initial PDR estimate  The cause of this issue depends mostly on the estimates of the power consumption for the ADCS components, since the estimates of the power consumption for the avionics board seem to be more accurate Future work will focus on improving estimates for the ADCS components maybe developing a specific expert elicitation interview with control experts only  The last results of this paper were computed performing the analysis of variance The analysis considers how the variance of each factor component or subsystem affects the total variance The objective of this analysis is to identify the main drivers for mass and power fluctuations To compute the analysis [4   th e h y p o t h esi s  o f  i n d ep en d en c e between the distributions of the single components is assumed Hence the variance of fluctuations for mass and power is the sum of the single variances   4  5  The variance proportions coefficients are defined as the ratio of the variance of each component to the total variance They are computed as  6  7  The coefficients for mass fluctuations are shown in Figure 22  The coefficients for power fluctuations are shown in Figure 23     Figure 22 Analysis of variance for the spacecraft mass estimates. According to all the statistics, the components of the control system together with the avionics board seem to be the components that show the biggest variance in their estimation  


    12   Figure 23 Analysis of variance for the spacecraft power consumption estimates. The statistics offer different results on which component seems to be the principle driver for the variance of the power consumption estimate  Analysis of variance shows that all the statistics identify ADCS and avionics board components as the major drivers for the variance in the estimation of the total mass Regarding the power consumption, the analysis of variance presents conflicting results according to experts and Bayesian statistics the ADCS subsystem is the main driver of the variance, while according to data statistic the avionics board is the main driver This difference can also be correlated with the issues observed in the total powe r consumption probability density function Figure 20 and 21 Future work will focus on a more detailed analysis of the control system for the spacecraft A final comment is related to the weighting of the distributions In this analysis two weighting schemes have been used the proportional scheme and the bisection scheme While in previous works focused on communication system design only  1   5    3    4   the bisection rule achieved substantially better results in the case of this paper the two methods provide very similar outcomes and they both give reasonable estimates However since this is the first case in which the methodology has been applied by the authors to the entire spacecraft design, it is too early to claim that in all the cases the two schemes will perform in the same way More test cases need to be analyzed and additional interviews with experts need to be performed  Conclusions and suggestions for future work are presented in the next section  4  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper presents the first attempt to extend the probabilistic approach to design risk to the entire spacecraft design This approach has been developed initially by the authors primarily for the design of the communication subsystem. In this paper, the authors extend the approach to the different subsystems and focus their effort on small spacecraft which are becoming increasingly more developed in academia space agencies and industries The methodology is extended to the entire spacecraft the database now includes data on several spacecraft components and the expert elicitation interview includes questions on the different subsystems. A university satellite mission \(CASTOR\ developed at MIT is used as a test case Results show that the methodology is effective in analyzing each component and in identifying whether the initial estimate of mass and power consumption made at PDR was an overestimation or an underestimation Specifically the tail functions provide useful insights which can be applied by the engineers while designing the spacecraft. The system results are obtained by convolution of the results obtained for the single components and they show that the model is able to clearly identify underestimation for the spacecraft mass while it does not perform as well for the power consumption. Similar results are obtained in the analysis of variance proportions Future work will be dedicated to analyzing the issue on the power consumption estimate as well as in developing specific statistic al  approaches to include newly developed payloads for which no previous data are available or for which expertise in the field is somehow limited Finally future work will also focus on extending the model to the design of larger spacecraft than small satellites and to the design of satellite constellations  5 ACKNOWLEDGMENT  Part of this work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Part of this work was carried out at the Space System Laboratory Massachusetts Institute of Technology 6 APPENDIX  A breakdown of mass and power consumption data for each of the components at PDR and CDR is shown in the following table Table 2: Values of mass and power consumption at PDR and CDR for each of the components analyzed Component  Mass PDR Kg  Mass CDR Kg  Power PDR W  Power CDR W  Solar Panel  3.34  5.066  0  0  


    13  Battery  3.2  2.64  70  50  Avionics Board  0.35  0.21  4  1.8  Satellite Structure  4.82  15.09  0  0  Magnetometer  0.01  0.01  0.03  0.03  Sun Sensor  0.03  0.03  0.08  0.075  GPS receiver  0.02  0.32  0.5  0.8  IMU  0.02  0.16  0.8  0..285  Reaction Wheels Assembly  0.12  0.21  1.2  7   R EFERENCES    1   A Babuscia Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design Ph.D Thesis Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2012  2   A Babuscia and K M Cheung Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design IEEE Systems Journal vol. PP, no. 99, pp. 1 12, 2012  3   A Babuscia and K M Cheung Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication Systems Design A Prelimi nary Look The Interplanetary Network Progress Report Vols. 42 188, pp. 1 33, 2012  4   A Babuscia K M Cheung and D W Miller Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design: Development of Optimization Frameworks," in IEEE Aerospac e Conference Big Sky, Montana, 2013  5   A Babuscia and K M Cheung An approach to perform expert elicitation for engineering design risk analysis methodology and experimental results Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series A Oct  2013   6   V Cortellessa Model Based Performance Risk Analysis IEEE 2005  7   L Meshkat A Holistic Approach for Risk Management During Design IEEE 2006  8   F. Barrientos, I. Tumer and D. Ullman, "Design Teams Complex Systems and Uncertain ties IEEE 2005  9   W L Oberkampf J C Helto C A Joslyn S F Wojkiewicz and S Ferson Challenge problems uncertainty in system response given uncertain parameters," Vols. 85\(11 19\, 2004  10   Y Asnayr V Bryl and P Giorgini Using risks analysis to evaluate alternatives IEEE 2006  11   M Fuchs and A Neumaier Autonomous Robust Design Optimization with potential clouds Reliability and Safety 2009  12   M Fuchs A Neumaier and D Girimonte Uncertainty modeling in autonomous robust spacecraft system design in Proceedings in Applied Mathematics and Mechanics 2007  13   M. Fuchs and A. Neumaier, "Potential based clouds in robust design optimization  Issue on Imprecision of Statistics and Applied Mathematics 2008  14   N O Siu and D L Kelly Bayesian parameter estimation in probabilistic risk assessment Reliability Engineering and System Safety vol 62 pp 89 116 1998  15   A. Babus cia, M. M. McCormack, M. Munoz, S. Parra and D W Miller MIT CASTOR Satellite development  implementation and testing of the communication system Acta Astronautica vol 81 pp. 111 121, 2012     


    14  B IOGRAPHY  Alessandra Babuscia received her  B.S and M.S  degrees from the Politecnico di Milano Milan Italy  in 2005  and 2007 respectively and her  Ph.D from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology  MIT Cambridge in 2012  She has been  a Post Doctoral Associate with  the Space System Laboratory MIT She has developed  communication systems for different university  missions  CommCube 1, CommCube 2, TSat, CASTOR, ExoPlanet TerSat   TALARIS She is currently Telecommunication E ngineer in the  Communication  Architecture Research Group NASA Jet Propulsion  Laboratory in  Pasadena CA Her current research interests include communication  architecture design st atistical risk estimation expert elicitation inflatable antennas commun ication system design for small satellites and CubeSats multi disciplinary design  optimization mission scheduling and planning  Dr Babuscia received the Amelia Earhart Fellowship in 2010 and 2011  became a Gordon Engineering Leadership Fellow in 2010 an d 2011 and  received the Teaching Assistant Award from the MIT Aeronautics and  Astronautics Department in 2010, and the Top Graduate Award in the B.S  Program in 2005 and in the M.S Program in 2007 from the Politecnico di  Milano   K ar Ming Cheung  received his  B.S.E.E degree  f rom the University of Michigan Ann Arbor in  1984 and his  M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the  California Institute of Technology Pasadena in 1985  and 1987, respectively  He is currently a Principal Engineer and a Technical  Gr oup Supervisor with the Communication Architectures  and Research Section 332 Jet Propulsion  Laboratory JPL Pasadena His group supports  design and specification of future deep space  and near Earth communication systems and architectures  He has autho red or co authored over 30 journal and conference papers  in the areas of error correction coding data compression image processing  and telecom system operations He has been with JPL since 1987 where  he has been engaged in research development produc tion operation, and  management of advanced channel coding source coding synchronization  image restoration and communication analysis schemes  Dr Cheung has    Scheme   


    15                                                           


 16  56   Increase Cost Estimate Accuracy in Government  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013 57  J aso n  Ha y   J o h n  D  R ee v e s   E lain e Gr e s h a m   J u l ie Williams Predic  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013  B IOGRAPHIES   Sreeja Nag is a PhD candidate in Space Systems Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and  a part-time research fellow at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center  She has a dual SM Candidate in Aeronautics  Astronautics Engineering along with Technology  Policy at MIT. She has summer research experience with NASA JPL in 2008, the European Space Agency \(ESTEC in 2010 and led the SPHERES Zero Robotics Program in 2011. Email sreeja_n@mit.edu                Jacqueline Le Moigne is the Assistant Chief for Technology in the Software Engineering Division at NASA Goddard where she is currently leading a study on Distributed Spacecraft Missions She has  performed extensive work in developing new technologies for remote sensing data analysis e.g image registration high-performance and onboard processing She has published over 100 publications and recently co  Jacqueline.LeMoigne@nasa.gov   Olivier de Weck is a Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology He is also the Executive Director of MIT Production in the Innovation Economy PIE Study and the CoDirector Center for Complex Engineering Systems at KACST and MIT  Email deweck@mit.edu   

















Mohammed Taj, Dwight Day, Ar lie Stonestreet, Tim Sobering Paper Number: 2227; Presentation Number: 8.0201 Finding the Gaps in Space GNC Hardware Adam Greenbaum, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2288; Presentation Number: 8.0202 Technology for a Robotic Asteroid Redirect Mission and Its Extensibility to Future Human Missions John Brophy Paper Number: 2451; Presentation Number: 8.0203 Advanced Launch Vehicle Systems and Technologies NASA's Space Launch System: An Enabling Capability for Discovery Stephen Creech Paper Number: 2014; Presentation Number: 8.0301 A Dual Thrust Axis Lander for Mars Exploration David Masten Paper Number: 2384; Presentation Number: 8.0302 Innovation at ULA: It Really Is Rocket Science Gregory Schiller Paper Number: 2407; Presentation Number: 8.0303 Launch Vehicle Mission Capability Enhancemen t through Global Positioning System Metric Tracking Timothy Gray Paper Number: 2556; Presentation Number: 8.0304 Lateral Autopilot Design Using H\211\366? for Reusable Launch Vehicles Sheelu Jose Paper Number: 2435; Presentation Number: 8.0305 Adaptation of the Morris Method to MultiDimensional Factors for Air-Launch-to-Orbit Separation Henri Sohier, Jean Loup Farges, Lahanier Helene Piet Paper Number: 2566; Presentation Number: 8.0306 Hosted Payloads Concept for an ASRG Hosted Payload Mission Erich Schulze Paper Number: 2462; Presentation Number: 8.0401 Exploiting Hosted Payload Opportunities Surrey's Lessons Learned from OTB and Other Missions Anita Bernie, John Paff ett, Marissa Brummitt Paper Number: 2231; Presentation Number: 8.0402 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 22 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Human Factors & Performanc e Real Time VR Environment for MAJIC A ttitude Control System Development and Implementation Jared Rize, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2090; Presentation Number: 8.0501 Musculoskeletal Human-Spacesuit Interaction Model Ana Diaz, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2156; Presentation Number: 8.0502 Level of Automation and Failure Frequency Ef fects on Simulated Lunar Lander Performance Jessica Marquez, Margarita Ramirez Paper Number: 2285; Presentation Number: 8.0503 Spacecraft Human-Rating: Historical Over view and Implementation Considerations David Klaus Paper Number: 2272; Presentation Number: 8.0504 Pilot Control and Stabilization of a Rate Controlled Vehicle in Hyper-Gravity Torin Clark, Michael Newman, Dan Merfeld Paper Number: 2250; Presentation Number: 8.0505 Dynamic Task Allocation in Operational Sy stems: Issues, Gaps, and Recommendations Aaron Johnson, Kevin Duda, Charles Oman, Tom Sheridan Paper Number: 2087; Presentation Number: 8.0506 The V2Suit \211\333\317Down\211\333 Tracking Algorithm Rebecca Vasquez, Akil Middle ton, Kevin Duda, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2213; Presentation Number: 8.0507 Human Performance with Procedure Automa tion to Manage Spacecraft Systems Debra Schreckenghost, Dorrit Billman, Tod Milam Paper Number: 2477; Presentation Number: 8.0508 A Mission Guided Investigatio n of Operational Functions and User Interface for MAJIC Celena Dopart, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2088; Presentation Number: 8.0509 Modular Bus Technologies, Components and Standardized Spacecraft Reusable, Modular, and Scalable Flight Software L. Jane Hansen, John Hanson Paper Number: 2172; Presentation Number: 8.0601 Development of Attitude Contro l Systems for Modular Spacecraft John Hanson, L. Jane Hansen Paper Number: 2148; Presentation Number: 8.0602 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 23 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


The TET Satellite Bus \226 Futu re Mission Capabilities Anja Nicolai, Stephan Roemer, Silke Eckert Paper Number: 2465; Presentation Number: 8.0603 SMC's Standard Network Adapter for Payloads Garrett Ellis Paper Number: 2544; Presentation Number: 8.0604 Mechanical Systems, Design and Technologies Spin Stabilization Design and Te sting for the Van Allen Probes Simmie Berman, Heather Borowski Weilun Cheng, David Persons Paper Number: 2133; Presentation Number: 8.0701 Evaluation and Test of Different Gear Conc epts for Ka-band Antenn a Pointing Mechanisms Ralf Purschke, Alexander Hoehn Paper Number: 2098; Presentation Number: 8.0702 Europa Clipper Spacecraft Configuration Evolution Alexander Eremenko Paper Number: 2077; Presentation Number: 8.0703 Spacecraft Propulsion and Power Technologies Status of Propulsion and Entry Vehicle Techno logy Development under the NASA ISPT Program David Anderson, Eric Pencil, John Dankanich Paper Number: 2395; Presentation Number: 8.0801 Green Propellant Infusion Mission Program Overview Christopher Mclean, William Deininger, Bryce Unruh Paper Number: 2150; Presentation Number: 8.0802 Description of the Green Propellant In fusion Mission \(GPI M\sion System William Deininger Paper Number: 2627; Presentation Number: 8.0803 Applications of Micro-Cathode Arc Thruster as In-space Propulsion Subsystem for PhoneSat Samudra Haque, Gazulla Oriol Tintore, George Teel Greenfield Trinh, Eddie Ur ibe, Andres Dono Perez Michael Keidar, Elwood Agasid Paper Number: 2324; Presentation Number: 8.0804 Pulse Phase Modulation for On-Off Thruster Pair Runle Du, Jiaqi Liu Paper Number: 2069; Presentation Number: 8.0805 Autonomous Space Exploration Systems and Technologies Onboard and Self-Contained Landing Site Selection for Planet ary Landers/Hoppers Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman, Tye Brady Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 24 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2028; Presentation Number: 8.0901 Vision-Based Terrain-Relative Navigation and Hazard Detection Onboard a Terrestrial Rocket Ted Steiner, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2101; Presentation Number: 8.0902 Morpheus Vertical Test Bed Flight Testing Jennifer Devolites Paper Number: 2562; Presentation Number: 8.0903 Rocket Validation of the ALHAT Autonomous GNC Flight System Steve Paschall, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2045; Presentation Number: 8.0904 New Technologies and Instruments for Scientific Balloon Missions The Use of 3D Printing to Enable High Altitude Balloon Missions Jeremy Straub Paper Number: 2039; Presentation Number: 8.1001 Rapid Development of Balloon-Borne CDH Syst em with a Focus on COTS and Open Source Software Zachary Dischner, Kevin Dinkel, Jedediah Di ller, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2345; Presentation Number: 8.1002 Inexpensive Balloon-Borne Observator ies Using Modified COTS Telescopes Eliot Young, Robert Woodruff Paper Number: 2284; Presentation Number: 8.1003 Development of Meter-scale O-shaped and U-shap ed Oscillating Heat Pipes for GAPS Shun Okazaki, Hideyuki Fuke, Hiroyuki Ogawa Paper Number: 2188; Presentation Number: 8.1004 Development of a Meteorology and Remote Sens ing Experimental Platform: The LAICAnSat-1 Pedro Nehme, Renato Borges, Simone Battistini, Chantal Cappelletti Paper Number: 2159; Presentation Number: 8.1005 High Energy Replicated Optics to Explore the Sun: Flight Overview and Astrophysical Pointing Jessica Gaskin, Steven Christe, Ho dge Colleen Wilson, Albert Shih Brian Ramsey, Jeff Apple, Kurtis Dietz Paper Number: 2216; Presentation Number: 8.1006 A Solar Aspect System for the HEROES Mission Steven Christe, Albert Sh ih, Marcello Rodriguez, Kyle Gregory, Alexander Cramer, Melissa Edgerton Brian O'connor, Alexander Sobey, Jessica Gaskin Paper Number: 2400; Presentation Number: 8.1007 10 Meter Sub-Orbital Large Balloon Reflector \(LBR Christopher Walker Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 25 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2630; Presentation Number: 8.1008 First Results from the Hard X-ray Polarimeter X-Calibur Matthias Beilicke Paper Number: 2205; Presentation Number: 8.1009 Design and Performance of the BRRI SON UV-VIS Fine Pointing System Jedediah Diller, Kevin Dinkel, Zachary Dischner, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2308; Presentation Number: 8.101 Enabling Systems and Technolo gies for CubeSat/Smallsats A Reusable Command and Data Handling Sy stem for University CubeSat Missions Shaina Johl, Gokul Anandayuvaraj, Sean Horton Paper Number: 2403; Presentation Number: 8.1101 Design and Scientific Return of a Miniaturized Particle Telescope Onboard the CSSWE CubeSat Quintin Schiller Paper Number: 2408; Presentation Number: 8.1102 Fractionated and Distributed Systems Satellite-to-Satellite Optimization Approa ch for Opportunistic Inter-Satellite Links Cruz Ignasi Lluch, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2270; Presentation Number: 8.1201 Air Vehicle Systems and Technologies UAV Systems & Autonomy Modeling, Analysis and Fabrication of a Thru st Vectoring Spherical VTOL Aerial Vehicle Sagar Bose, Shibu Clement, Rohan Ve rma, Aditya Tripathi, Kriti Garuda Paper Number: 2097; Presentation Number: 9.0202 Aerodynamic Analysis of BlimPlane- a Conc eptual Hybrid UAV for Venus Exploration Mofeez Alam, Kumar Ashish, Sanjay Limaye Paper Number: 2313; Presentation Number: 9.0203 Aggressive Navigation Using High-S peed Natural Feature Point Tracking Christopher Raabe, John Vian, Emad Saad Paper Number: 2329; Presentation Number: 9.0204 Development of a Multipurpose Tactic al Surveillance System Using UAV's Rodrigo Rangel Paper Number: 2251; Presentation Number: 9.0205 A New Hybrid Motor Glider-Quadrotor MAV for In-Flight/V-STOL Launching Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 26 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2501; Presentation Number: 9.0206 SquidCop: Design and Evaluation of a No vel Quadrotor MAV for In-\225\302\342ight Launching Air-Ground Missions Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Paper Number: 2500; Presentation Number: 9.0207 Development of a Circulation Control Wing for UAVs Konstantinos Kanistras, Matthew Rutherford, Kimon Valavanis Paper Number: 2439; Presentation Number: 9.0208 Comparing the Economic and Regulatory State of UAS & Commercial Space Flight Harrison Wolf Paper Number: 2555; Presentation Number: 9.0209 Modeling of Real-Time Flight Control System for Small Coaxial Helicopter Seong Jin Lee Paper Number: 2530; Presentation Number: 9.021 Quantification of High Level Safety Crit eria for Civil Unmanned Aircraft Systems Xun Lin, Neale Fulton, Mark Horn Paper Number: 2619; Presentation Number: 9.0211 Three-dimensional Path Planning for Unmann ed Aerial Vehicles Based on Fluid Flow Xiao Liang Paper Number: 2707; Presentation Number: 9.0212 Airborne Imaging for Cultural Heritage Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2717; Presentation Number: 9.0213 Artificial Homeostasis for Vehicle Contro l Architecture of Unmanned Spacecraft Carlos Insaurralde, Emil Vassev Paper Number: 2543; Presentation Number: 9.0214 Multi Disciplinary Optimization Design of Modern Airship Based on Genetic Algorithm Masood Mayanbari Paper Number: 2647; Presentation Number: 9.0215 Aircraft Systems & Avionics Stochastic 4D Trajectory Optimizati on for Aircraft Conflict Resolution Yoshinori Matsuno, Takeshi Tsuchiya Paper Number: 2207; Presentation Number: 9.0301 Estimating the Internal Volume Requirement in a Multivariate Design Synthesis of a BWB Aircraft Paulinus Okonkwo Paper Number: 2281; Presentation Number: 9.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 27 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


A Novel Pump Design for an Efficient and Compact Electro-Hydraulic Actuator Gabriele Altare, Andrea Vacca, Carl Richter Paper Number: 2651; Presentation Number: 9.0304 Short-Term Turning in Presence of Wind as a Trajectory Optimization Problem Kamran Turkoglu Paper Number: 2652; Presentation Number: 9.0305 Air Vehicle Flight Controls Optimal Position Transfer Analysis of Stratospheric Airs hip in Wind Field Zhou Jianghua, Li Zhaojie, Sheng Wang, Jiang Luhua Paper Number: 2071; Presentation Number: 9.0401 Analyses and Comparisons for Several Flight Co ntrol Configuration of Stratospheric Airship Jing Gang Miao, Fan Wang, Yan Chu Yang, Xiang Qiang Zhang Paper Number: 2142; Presentation Number: 9.0402 Software and Computing Computational Modeling Multi-resolution Rapid Prototyping of Vehicle Cooling Systems Maciej Pindera Paper Number: 2019; Presentation Number: 10.0101 Feature Selective Validation Rohit Nijhawan Paper Number: 2024; Presentation Number: 10.0102 Designing a Fuzzy Logic Controller for the Reyn olds Number in a Blowdown Supersonic Wind Tunnel Shahrbabaki Amin Nazarian, Ali Shahriyari, Manshadi Mojtaba Dehghan Paper Number: 2146; Presentation Number: 10.0103 Bird Strike Analysis of Jet Engine Fan Blade Narender Lakshman, Ratnesh Raj, Yagnavalkya Mukkamala Paper Number: 2158; Presentation Number: 10.0104 Ammonia-Water Solution Clou d Modeling of Gas Giant Planets via Phase Equilibrium Calculations Virgil Adumitroaie Paper Number: 2513; Presentation Number: 10.0105 Computational Modeling of Chan nel Length Modulation in Ca rbon Nanotube Field Effect Transistors Adam Bushmaker Paper Number: 2538; Presentation Number: 10.0106 Flow Regimes in an Air Conditio ned Measuring Equipment Laboratory Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 28 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Ahmed Farag Paper Number: 2691; Presentation Number: 10.0107 A Multiscale Turbulence Prediction and Al ert System for Airports in Hilly Regions Adil Rasheed, Karstein S\314\374rli Paper Number: 2679; Presentation Number: 10.0108 Software Engineering Autonomous Real Time Requirements Tracing George Plattsmier, Howard Stetson Paper Number: 2100; Presentation Number: 10.0201 TSEpoch: An Object Oriented Design for Representing Time Lawrence Brown, Jon Vandegriff Paper Number: 2348; Presentation Number: 10.0202 Open Source RTOS Implementation for on Board Computer \(OBC\SAT-2 Bheema Rajulu, Sankar Dasiga, Naveen Iyer Paper Number: 2413; Presentation Number: 10.0203 On Development of Hilbert-Huan g Transform Data Processing Real Time System with 2-D Capabilities Semion Kizhner Paper Number: 2703; Presentation Number: 10.0204 A Test Scripting Framework for Automated Flig ht SW V&V Testing: Van Allen Probes Lessons Learned Jeremiah Finnigan Paper Number: 2010; Presentation Number: 10.0205 Confidence in Spacecraft So ftware: Continuous Process Improvement in Requirements Verification Kristin Wortman, Maria Spezio Paper Number: 2072; Presentation Number: 10.0206 Testing of Safety-Critical Systems An Aerospace La unch Application Ahmed Gario, Anneliese Andrews, Seana Hagerman Paper Number: 2495; Presentation Number: 10.0207 Software Architecture and Design Abstraction of Abstraction \226 an Outline of General Schedulin g Platform for Space Missions Jinjiang Xing Paper Number: 2655; Presentation Number: 10.0302 The Study of the Virtual Machine fo r Space Real-Time Embedded Systems Sooyeon Kang, Hyungshin Kim Paper Number: 2695; Presentation Number: 10.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 29 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Robust and Modular On-board Architec ture for Future Robotic Spacecraft Steffen Jaekel, Martin Stelzer, Hans Herpel Paper Number: 2376; Presentation Number: 10.0304 Model-based Systems and Software Engineering TES' Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE\FACETM Applications Stephen Simi Paper Number: 2110; Presentation Number: 10.0401 SOS for SoS: A New Paradigm fo r System of Systems Modeling Matthew Hause Paper Number: 2320; Presentation Number: 10.0402 MBSE without a Process-Based Data Architecture Is Just a Set of Random Characters Robert Crain Paper Number: 2111; Presentation Number: 10.0403 Model-Based GN&C Simulation and Flight Soft ware Development for Orion Missions beyond LEO Ryan Odegard, Zoran Milenkovic Paper Number: 2128; Presentation Number: 10.0404 A Model-Driven Visualization Tool for Use wi th Model-Based Systems Engineering Projects Kathryn Trase, Eric Fink Paper Number: 2192; Presentation Number: 10.0405 Integrated Model-Based Systems Engineering MBSE\d to Simulation of the RAX CubeSat Mission David Kaslow, Sara Spangelo, Grant Soremekun, Hongman Kim Paper Number: 2289; Presentation Number: 10.0406 New HiL Evaluation of an H-In f Controller on the Stabilization of a MAV in Flight Simulation Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernan des, Marcelo Becker Fernando M. Catalano Paper Number: 2521; Presentation Number: 10.0407 Model-Based Requirements Generation Brian London Paper Number: 2584; Presentation Number: 10.0408 Automatic Code Generation for Spacecra ft Attitude Determination and Control Bryce Carpenter Paper Number: 2686; Presentation Number: 10.0409 Implementing Artificial Intelligence for Aerospace Integrating Artificial Intelligence Techniqu es to Generate Ground Station Schedules Costas Tsatsoulis, Michele Van Dyne Paper Number: 2103; Presentation Number: 10.0501 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 30 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Missile Trajectory Optimization Usin g a Modified Ant Colony Algorithm Zachary Kiyak, Timothy Ledlow Paper Number: 2185; Presentation Number: 10.0502 Missile System Design Using a Hybrid Evolving Swarm Algorithm Timothy Ledlow, Zachary Kiyak Paper Number: 2225; Presentation Number: 10.0503 Distributed Multi-Agent Systems \226 a Litera ture Survey and Inquisitive Discussion Christopher Elliott Paper Number: 2504; Presentation Number: 10.0504 Star Tracker Orientation Optimization Using Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm \(NSGA Fabricio Carvalho, Francisco Salazar Paper Number: 2616; Presentation Number: 10.0505 Human-Computer Interaction Exploration with Live Stereoscopic 3D Video in Mixed Reality Environments Jason Kimball, Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2347; Presentation Number: 10.0601 Limitations of Crowdsourcing Using the EMS1998 Scale in Remote Disaster Sensing Andrew Huynh, Michael Eguchi Albert Lin, Ronald Eguchi Paper Number: 2602; Presentation Number: 10.0602 An EMG Enhanced Impedance and Force Control Framework for Telerobot Operation in Space Ning Wang, Chenguang Yang Michael Lyu, Zhijun Li Paper Number: 2675; Presentation Number: 10.0603 Cloud Computing Secure Hybrid Cloud Computing: Approach and Use Cases Kapil Bakshi Paper Number: 2078; Presentation Number: 10.0701 Cloud Computing for Geodetic Imaging Da ta Processing, Analysis, and Modeling Andrea Donnellan, Jay Parker, Jun Wang, Yu Ma, Marlon Pierce Paper Number: 2223; Presentation Number: 10.0702 A Survivability-Centered Rese arch Agenda for Cloud Comp uting Supported ERM Systems Zhanshan \(Sam Paper Number: 2696; Presentation Number: 10.0703 Diagnostics, Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM PHM for Aerospace Subsystems, Components and Structures Uncertainty in Prognostics: Computat ional Methods and Practical Challenges Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 31 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Shankar Sankararaman, Kai Goebel Paper Number: 2338; Presentation Number: 11.0101 Current/Pressure Transducer Application of Model-Based Prognostics Using Steady State Conditions Christopher Teubert, Matthew Daigle Paper Number: 2323; Presentation Number: 11.0102 Prognostics for Electronics and Avionic Systems Universal Auto-Calibration for a Rapid Batte ry Impedance Spectrum Measurement Device John Morrison, William Morrison Paper Number: 2030; Presentation Number: 11.0201 Integrated Diagnostics and Time to Maintenanc e Estimation for Complex Engineering Systems Mohammad Azam, David Kleinman, Somnath Deb, Deepak Haste, Suvasri Mandal Paper Number: 2642; Presentation Number: 11.0202 Algorithms and Advanced Concepts for Diagnostics and PHM Automatic Systems Diagnosis without Behavioral Models Rui Abreu Paper Number: 2162; Presentation Number: 11.0401 The Use of Data Signatures in Condition Based Maintenance Plus Charles Crabb Paper Number: 2674; Presentation Number: 11.0402 Design Attributes for Diagnostics and Prognostics Health Monitoring Requirements Elicitation via House of Quality Gianluca Nicchiotti Paper Number: 2473; Presentation Number: 11.0601 Total Ownership Cost Reduction for Complex Sy stems through the Design and Application of CBM Jeffrey Banks Paper Number: 2565; Presentation Number: 11.0602 PHM Technologies for Reliability and System Maintenance J69-T-25A Engine Comp onent Failure Analysis Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2443; Presentation Number: 11.0701 Analyzing T-53 Series Engines Defect Trends through Maintenance History Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2446; Presentation Number: 11.0702 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 32 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Systems Health Mana g ement for Space Systems and Operations Model-Based Fault Management for Spacecraft Autonomy Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Zetocha, Louis Breger Paper Number: 2026; Presentation Number: 11.0801 Maturation of Health Management Technologies via Ground/Flight Testing and Research Robust Monitoring of Turbofan Sensors Jerome Lacaille Paper Number: 2059; Presentation Number: 11.1001 Application of Model-based Prognost ics to a Pneumatic Valves Testbed Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni, George Gorospe Paper Number: 2293; Presentation Number: 11.1002 PHM for Astronauts and Pilots Performance Assessment & Motion Planning Optimization in a Su rgical Trainer for Potential Space Use Aakarsh Rao, Minsik Hong, Akash Shankaran, Jerzy Rozenblit, Wolfgang Fink Paper Number: 2511; Presentation Number: 11.1101 Planning a Pilot Project on the ISS for Crew Health Management & Maintenance beyond LEO Wolfgang Fink, Alexandre Popov, Andrew Hess Paper Number: 2680; Presentation Number: 11.1102 Real-time Online Health Analytics for Interplanetary Space Missions J. Mikael Eklund, Carolyn Mc Gregor Paper Number: 2604; Presentation Number: 11.1103 Personal Health Care and Corresponding Techno logy with Prognostic Capability. Issues and Challenges Olha Kevorkova, Alexandre Popov Paper Number: 2649; Presentation Number: 11.1104 Portable System to Monitor Astronaut Ocul ar Health and the De velopment of the VIIP Syndrome Wolfgang Fink, David Hilmers, Mark Tarbell Paper Number: 2657; Presentation Number: 11.1105 Probabilistic Design for Reliability of Aerospace Electronics Application of Multi-Parametric Boltzma nn-Arrhrnius-Zhurkov Model in Aerospace Optoelectronics Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2009; Presentation Number: 11.1201 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 33 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Aerospace Electronic Packaging: Thermal St ress in Bi- and Tri-Material Assemblies Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2015; Presentation Number: 11.1202 Prediction of Remaining Useful Life of Ball-Gr id-Array Interconnections from Testing on Board Level Laurent Bechou, Derigny David Gucik Paper Number: 2126; Presentation Number: 11.1203 Utilizing Confidence Bounds in Failure Mode Effects Analysis \(FMEA\d Risk Assessment Marc Banghart Paper Number: 2114; Presentation Number: 11.1204 Reliability Testing for Efficien t Validation and Qualification Joseph Bernstein Paper Number: 2049; Presentation Number: 11.1205 HALT, FOAT, and Their Role in Making a Viable Device into a Reliable Product Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2050; Presentation Number: 11.1206 Using Physics of Failure to Predict System Level Reliability for Avionic Electronics Greg Caswell Paper Number: 2053; Presentation Number: 11.1207 Injection-Coupled Devices \(ICDs\peration Pr inciple, Applications Design-for-Reliability Konstantin Tapero, Victor Murashev Pavel Ivshin, Sergey Legotin, Andrey Krasnov, Dmitry Elnikov Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2157; Presentation Number: 11.1208 Improved Methods for Development of High Reliability Electronics Jue Li Paper Number: 2183; Presentation Number: 11.1209 Long Term In-vacuum Reliability Testing of 980nm Laser Diode Pump Modules for Space Applications Laurent Bechou Paper Number: 2165; Presentation Number: 11.121 Some Major Guiding Principles to Make Future Manned Missions to Mars Safe and Reliable Jean Marc Salotti, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2083; Presentation Number: 11.1211 Designing with Consideration of the Human Fact or: Changing the Paradigm for Higher Safety Sylvain Hourlier, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2614; Presentation Number: 11.1212 PHM for Autonomous Systems A Battery Health Monitoring Framework for Planetary Rovers Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 34 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni Paper Number: 2291; Presentation Number: 11.1301 PHM for Propulsion Systems Fusing an Ensemble of Divers e Prognostic Life Predictions Oliver Laslett, Zaidan Martha Arbayani Bin, Robert Harr ison, Andrew Mills Paper Number: 2191; Presentation Number: 11.1401 Ground and Space Operations Spacecraft Development and F light Operations:  Challenges Successes, Failures and Lessons Learned Redesign of CloudSat's Maneuver s for Robust Delta-V Operations Ian Gravseth Paper Number: 2131; Presentation Number: 12.0101 ARTEMIS Operations \226 Experi ences and Lessons Learned Manfred Bester Paper Number: 2464; Presentation Number: 12.0102 Juno Spacecraft Operations Lessons Learned for Early Cruise Mission Phases Jeff Lewis Paper Number: 2554; Presentation Number: 12.0103 Changing the Paradigm GSFC's Role in th e MAVEN Mission. Lessons Learned from the MOS/GDS Effort John Hughes, Rosa Carlos Gomez, Brian Thibaudeau Francis Wasiak, Agustin Alfonzo, Juan Cifuentes Paper Number: 2705; Presentation Number: 12.0104 Design of a Spacecraft I&T Facility at the John s Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory William Liggett Paper Number: 2200; Presentation Number: 12.0105 Flight/Ground Systems, Mission Planning and Operations Careful and Accurate Placement of Avionics Boxes during Maintenance of Flight Hardware Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2361; Presentation Number: 12.0201 Design and Development of a Free-Floati ng Hexrotor UAV for 6-DOF Maneuvers Evan Kaufman, Kiren Caldwell, Daewon Lee, Taeyoung Lee Paper Number: 2527; Presentation Number: 12.0202 Using Vicon Bodybuilder and Plug-In-Gait to Generate L5/S1 Angles, Forces and Moments Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2656; Presentation Number: 12.0205 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 35 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


MAVEN Information Security Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance \(GRC Learned Eduardo Takamura, Kevin Mangum, Ro sa Carlos Gomez Francis Wasiak Paper Number: 2700; Presentation Number: 12.0206 Aerospace Aircraft Information Display System for Flight Operations in ND Ronald Marsh Paper Number: 2212; Presentation Number: 12.0207 Managing Life Cycle Cost and Risk - Affordability Operability, Sustainability, and Automation A Critical Analysis of Additive Manufacturi ng Technologies for Aerospace Applications Atin Angrish Paper Number: 2601; Presentation Number: 12.0301 Human Space Flight Operations and Processing Space Shuttle Launch Probability Analysis: Un derstanding History So We Can Predict the Future Grant Cates Paper Number: 2502; Presentation Number: 12.0401 Payload and Instrument Operations and Processing Cold Atom Laboratory Mission System Design Melissa Soriano, Anita Sengupta, Kristen Virkler Paper Number: 2084; Presentation Number: 12.0501 Extreme Environment SImulation - a New Capability to Simulate Venus and Other Planetary Bodies Tibor Kremic Paper Number: 2353; Presentation Number: 12.0502 Management, Systems Engineering and Cost System Simulation and Verification Response Surface Based Performance Anal ysis of an Air-Defense Missile System Kerem Gunaydin, Tayfun \307imen Paper Number: 2208; Presentation Number: 13.0101 Modeling and Simulation of Asteroid Retrieval Using a Flexible Capture Mechanism Havard Grip, Jonathan Cameron, Calvin Kuo Steven Myint, Masahiro Ono, Marco Quadrelli Paper Number: 2488; Presentation Number: 13.0102 Analysis of Rover Transmission Interruption Guinian Feng Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 36 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2585; Presentation Number: 13.0103 Risk Management: Application and Lessons Learned Low-Cost, Risk-Reduction Testing of Class D Spacecraft Photovoltaic Systems Joshua Forgione Paper Number: 2605; Presentation Number: 13.0201 A Practical Application of a Systems Engineering Process in Space Avionics Design and Development Patrick Phelan Paper Number: 2645; Presentation Number: 13.0202 Cost and Schedule Tools, Methods and Processes Historical Mass, Power, Schedule & Cost Growth for NASA Science Instruments Robert Bitten, Stephen Shinn Paper Number: 2107; Presentation Number: 13.0301 Life-cycle Cost Simulation of a New Implemen tation Process of Government Space Systems Paul Speth, Paul Blessner, Tim Blackburn Paper Number: 2240; Presentation Number: 13.0302 Exploring Classification Algorithms for Early Mission Formulation Cost Estimation Net Marc Sanchez, Daniel Selva, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2304; Presentation Number: 13.0303 NASA Instrument Cost Model for Expl orer-like Mission Instruments \(NICM-E Joseph Mrozinski, Agahi Hamid Habib, George Fox Paper Number: 2537; Presentation Number: 13.0304 Enterprise Modeling for Cubesats Louise Anderson, Christopher Lo we, David Kaslow, Eric Sudano Rose Yntema, Sharanabasaweshwara Asundi, Sara Spangelo Paper Number: 2341; Presentation Number: 13.0305 Cost and Risk Analysis of Small Satel lite Constellations for Earth Observation Sreeja Nag, Jacqueline Le Moigne, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2459; Presentation Number: 13.0306 FTE Tool, a Practical Tool for Analyzing St affing Levels and Cost across Missions Justin Mc Neill Paper Number: 2279; Presentation Number: 13.0307 Management Tools, Methods and Processes The Legacy of Faster-Better-Cheaper: Too Much Risk or Over-reaction to Failure Merrill Robin Dillon, Peter Madsen Paper Number: 2017; Presentation Number: 13.0401 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 37 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Risk-Based Space System Design: A Novel Prob abilistic Approach to Design Risk for Small Satellites Alessandra Babuscia, Kar Ming Cheung Paper Number: 2091; Presentation Number: 13.0402 Collaborative Engineering in Competitive Environments: Th e PTSS Integrated Systems Engineering Team James Leary, Patrick Stadte r, Patrick Binning, David Durey, Jae Heiner, Stephen Kendrick, Dan Schwab Dana Southwood Paper Number: 2130; Presentation Number: 13.0403 Model Linking to Improve Visibility and Re usability of Models during Space System Development Meenakshi Deshmukh, Ren\351 Schwarz, Lopez Rosa Paris Paper Number: 2224; Presentation Number: 13.0404 Boeing's 702 Product Line : Sy stem Engineering a Cost Effective Product Portfolio Strategy Richard Milford Paper Number: 2402; Presentation Number: 13.0405 NASA's New Space Flight Project Requirements Earlier Definition for Later Cost Stability Jeffery Webster Paper Number: 2549; Presentation Number: 13.0406 Using Monte Carlo Simulation as Support for Decision Making While Negotiating a PBL Contract Jan Block Paper Number: 2668; Presentation Number: 13.0407 Using Organizational Messages to Improve the Recognition of Near-Miss Events on Projects Merrill Robin Dillon, Catherine Tinsley Paper Number: 2016; Presentation Number: 13.0408 Mission Modeling, Concept Optimization and Concurrent Design Multi-stakeholder Interactive Simulati on for Federated Satellite Systems Paul Grogan, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2163; Presentation Number: 13.0501 Remote Sensing Satellite System Overall Effectiveness Analysis and Modeling Abou Bakr Elhady Paper Number: 2671; Presentation Number: 13.0502 Deep Space Navigation Mission Design and Analysis Tool Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Graven Paper Number: 2023; Presentation Number: 13.0503 Systems Architecture, Engineeri ng and System of Systems Optimization of a Small Sate llite Tridyne Propulsion System Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 38 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Brian Cohen, Robert Legge Paper Number: 2036; Presentation Number: 13.0601 Experiments in Knowledge-intensive System Architecting: Interactive Architecture Optimization Daniel Selva Paper Number: 2217; Presentation Number: 13.0602 Computer-aided Design & A ssessment of Disaggregate Space System Architectures Robert Thompson Paper Number: 2214; Presentation Number: 13.0603 In-Space Transportation Infrastructure Arch itecture Decisions Using a Weighted Graph Approach Peter Davison, Bruce Cameron Paper Number: 2257; Presentation Number: 13.0604 Trade Space Evaluation of Ascent and Return Ar chitectures for a Mars Sample Return Mission Farah Alibay, Zachary Bailey Paper Number: 2298; Presentation Number: 13.0605 Technology Transfer and Commercialization NASA Innovation Ecosystem: Host to a Go vernment Technology Innovation Network Jill Hardash Paper Number: 2570; Presentation Number: 13.0701 Consideration of Risk versus Reward in Balancing Technology Portfolios Richard Terrile, Andrea Belz Paper Number: 2639; Presentation Number: 13.0702 Promoting \(and Provoking The Politics of Space Launch: All Launch Systems Are Not Nominal Mark Bitterman Paper Number: 2392; Presentation Number: 13.0801 Students Touch Space in Zero Robotics Pr ogramming Competition with Free Downloadable Curriculum Jenny Liu Paper Number: 2673; Presentation Number: 13.0802 From STEM to STEAM: Towards Aerospace Partnerships with Cu ltural Heritage Diagnostics Ashley Richter Paper Number: 2598; Presentation Number: 13.0803 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 39 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


