D IS G  A D IS tributed G raph Repository for Web Infrastructure Aoying Zhou Institute of Massive Computing East China Normal University ayzhou@sei.ecnu.edu.cn Weining Qian Institute of Massive Computing East China Normal University wnqian@sei.ecnu.edu.cn Dao Tao Department of Computer Science and Engineering Fudan University taodao@fudan.edu.cn Qiang Ma Department of Computer Science and Engineering Fudan University maqiang@fudan.edu.cn Abstract Storage and utilization of web data has become a big challenge to data management community Though many commercial and academic tools emerge the structure content and user behavior of Chinese Web is not fully studied We are working on building a Chinese Web Infrastructure CWI for support of such research In this paper a graph data model used in CWI is introduced after which the design of a distributed system for management of data conforming the model is presented 1 Introduction World-Wide Web WWW or the Web contains huge volume of data published by different organizations or people which can be treat as the largest distributed database in the world However utilization of data on the Web is dif\002cult since the data is unstructured heterogeneous and fast changing We propose to develop a Chinese Web Infrastruccture CWI for serving the requirements of analysis to the data from the Chinese Web The architecture of CWI is shown in Figure 1 Two major challenges to development of CWI are 1 the massive dataset to be coped with and 2 the lack of common schema We propose a tagged and labeled graph model TLGM for representing the data on the Web and to use a large-scaled distributed repository for storage and management of data conforming the model so that high ef\002ciency and availability can be achieved This paper introduces the design of DisG a repository for management of data conforming the TLGM There are two characteristics distinguished it from other systems with similar goal  DisG supports queries on both content via keywords and structure of the data Thus it is suitable for Web data management in which data are unstructured or semi-structured while information retrieval is important  DisG is a distributed repository Both storage and data retrieval are conducted parrellelly Therefore it is scalable in terms of volume of data and number of users The rest part of this paper is organized as follows In Section 2 the preliminaries of the TLGM data model and its query language is brei\003y introduced Section 3 introduces the environment upon which DisG is developed In Section 4 two major components of the system i.e the storage scheme of graph data and graph reconstruction are introduced Finally Section 5 is devoted to discussion on our future work on DisG 2 A graph data model for Web infrastructure 2.1 The TLGM data model The tagged and labeled graph model TLGM is used in CWI Each data object in TLGM is a quadruple  K L P T   Here K is an ordered set of terms  k i   L is a set of tags f t i g  P is the set of pointers to other data objects  l i  p i   l i is the label and p i is the reference to a data object and T is the timestamp A term may be a keyword or a URL link This data model is essentially a directed graph Each vertex is a data object while edges are pointers in P  Each 
2008 Second International Symposium on Universal Communication 978-0-7695-3433-6/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ISUC.2008.83 141 


Figure 1 The architecture of CWI ID 00300 Content  K  I don't agree with your opinion Tags  L  BLOG COMMENT Negative Opinion Pointers  P   reply-to 00001    replied-by 03071  Timestamp  T  2008-05-30 12:00:03 Figure 2 Representation of a comment to a blog post edge is associated with a label The major difference between TLGM to previous models such as BigTable is that each data object may be associated with several tags attribute names Thus one object can be described by several tags For example a comment to a blog post may be represented by TLGM as it is shown in Figure 2 The comment is opposite to the original post Therefore it is tagged with Negative Opinion Advanced applications may extend tags with more semantic labels These tags along with structure tags such as BLOG COMMENT automatically labeled by the system when collecting the data can all be used by users to query the data object Users can also use the pointers to traverse in the graph and locate on other data objects 2.2 Query language The query language over TLGM named as TLGM-QL is a SQL-alike language User may pro vide query conditions on tags pointers content or timestamps The allowed query conditions are listed in Table 1 TLGM-QL provides a set of aggregation or statistical functions over keywords These functions include traditional aggregation functions such as count and functions like co-occurrence TLGM-QL is extensible More functions can be added to meet the requirements of more applications Figure 3 shows a sample query for analyzing the keySELECT B1.keyword association\(B1.keyword product FROM BLOG[now-1w no as B1 BLOG[no w-2w  no w-1w as B2 WHERE appearance\(B1.keyword  2  appearance\(B2.keyword AND B1.keyword  B2.keyword ORDER BY association\(B1.keyword product TOP 10 Figure 3 A sample query for keyword analysis SELECT B2.content FROM BLOG&ORIGIN[now-1w no as B1 BLOG&COMMENT&Negative Opinion[now-1w no as B2 WHERE AND B1.keyword contains Something Figure 4 A sample query for keyword analysis words related to a speci\002c product It ranks the emergent keywords with high relationships with a given product in the last week and returns the top 10 keywords to user This may be useful in on-line advertisement for helping users to bid keywords Figure 4 shows another sample query that 002nds all negative comments to blog posts talking about Something It may be useful for public opinion analysis 3 System setting DisG is developed over Hadoop 1  an open source Google File System GFS and MapReduce 5 clone In this section the characteristics of Hadoop used by DisG are introduced brie\003y 1 http://hadoop.apache.org/core 
142 


Table 1 Symbols for presenting conditions in queries Conditions Symbols Meaning Example tags  both tags appear BLOG  COM M EN T de\002nes data objects from comments of some blog time range  f rom  to  the time range BLOG  now  1 w now  de\002nes time window of the last week pointer  label  the link with the label F ORU M   replied  by  de\002nes the reply of a forum post content keyword terms or hyperlinks BLOG:keyword de\002nes the content of a blog post or url in content 3.1 GFS-style storage DisG relies on a distributed storage with one-mastermultiple-data-server architecture The master node is only responsible for ID to data nodes mapping and lookup via hashing Data are organized in chunks with 002xed size Each chunk is stored in multiple nodes so that single-point failure would not affect the availability of the system Failure of master node can be recovered from data nodes information Data are stored and accessed in chunks GFS and Hadoop only support appending of a chunk Update on data is not supported Data nodes may be accessed in parallel 3.2 Map-reduce Map-reduce is a programming paradigm that splits a program task into two phases It accepts input data items in  key value  form The map phase maps input data items into new  key new  value new  pairs Then these pairs are grouped on key new s automatically The reduce phase may conduct further process on value new s with the same key new  The map-reduce model greatly simpli\002es many data intensive computational tasks It is suitable for large-scale distributed systems like GFS or Hadoop since interaction between data on different nodes happens only in the automatic grouping which is scheduled and optimized 4 Storage and reconstruction of the graph 4.1 Overview In DisG data items are distributed to different data nodes based on their IDs Apparently data items are not clustered in this setting since neighboring data items have large chance to be mapped to different data nodes We take this approach due to two reasons 1 Neighboring data items may not be collected together thus they are not clustered in the beginning Consider web pages collected by a Web crawler A web crawler may schedule to download two linked web pages separately to avoid overload a speci\002c web server while unrelated web pages may be downloaded together to speed up the crawling 2 Distribute related data items to multiple nodes may increase the degree of parallelization of computation Terms tags and labels are all indexed separately in forms of  k i  ID    t i  ID   and  l i  ID   Note that here k i  t i and l i become keys while ID of data items are values Furthermore contents are indexed using an inverted index The implementation of inverted index using map-reduce is introduced in Thus data items can be accessed via providing terms tags labels or keywords in contents Even individual data items can be accessed via its properties it is not trivial to build up a graph repository for CWI TLGM-QL queries may ask to retrieve a set of related data items or some data items by providing a set of restrictions on properties Thus DisG implements an index to link data items distributed in the system And it supports re-construct subgraphs ef\002ciently 4.2 Index construction A stored data object only contains IDs of other data objects it is related via pointers To ful\002ll the information of where those related data objects are DisG uses two mapreduce procedure to construcct the index The 002rst procedure construct the reverse link graph similar to it is used to construct the reverse Web-link graph introduced in Map Map  ID  label p i   to  p i   label ID    in which p i is the new key Reduce Collect the result to obtain  p i  f  label j  ID j g  Then the second procedure redistribute the information to construct the index Map Map  p i  f  label j  ID j g  to  ID j   p i  Addr i    in which Addr i is the node ID of p i  Reduce Collect the result to obtain  ID label p i  Addr i   
143 


4.3 Subgraph re-construction To re-construct a subgraph a query with QID is sent to all data nodes with related data objects which means the data object matches the query in any query constraint in tag label term or content Then a map-reduce procedure is conducted to form the subgraph as follows Map Map all matched data objects o i to  QID o i   in which QID is the key Reduce All o i s are collected so that a subgraph can be reconstructed by join the target of pointers with data object IDs 4.4 Enhancement The basic storage index and reconstruction procedure introduced above may encounter serious performance issue First some data objects are hot ones that point to or are pointed by a large number of other data objects Thus data nodes storing these hot objects may be overloaded Second for some complex tasks that need to re-construct a large subgraph the node that conduct the reduce phase for the query QID may be overloaded or it may take long time to 002nish the job DisG uses several techniques to distribute the storage or computation burden to different data nodes 1 For hot data objects with large amount of out-pointers each of them are mapped to a set of virtual data objects all of which are connected to each other Pointers are distributed evenly to those virtual objects The pointers between virtual objects are not resolved in subgraph re-construction until last 2 For hot data objects with large amount of in-pointers they are identi\002ed in index construction after the grouping following the 002rst mapping phase Again the long list of f  label j  ID j g is splitted and distributed to several data nodes so that the second procedure can be conducted more ef\002ciently Furthermore data node containing p i are informed to construct virtual data objects for p i  3 While re-construct subgraphs data objects are not exchanged until last Only ID of data objects and a list of IDs in broken pointers which means pointers whose target data objects are not stored locally are exchanged between data nodes in the grouping of mapreduce Thus the sketch of the result subgraph is 002rst built The real subgraph is constructed at last This may greatly reduce the network consumption 4 The mapping phase of subgraph reconsutrution does not map all data objects to the same QID  It partitions all data objects into several partitions For each partition DisG generates a QID i  All data objects whose ID belongs to that partition or their broken pointers point to data objects in that partition are mapped to the QID i  Thus the computational burden of subgraph reconstruction is distributed 5 Resulting subgraphs are cached in DisG Queries that generate these subgraphs are hashed and used as keys of subgraphs 5 Related work TLGM is similar to W and W ebOQL[1 W ebSQL and WebOQL are two query languages for access of Web data WebSQL are designed to represent hyperlinks of web pages Web pages can be accessed via SQL-like queries by providing query conditions on hyperlinks WebOQL further extends WebSQL so that web pages themselves are represented as a hypertrees Hypertrees are further linked via hyperlinks link WebSQL OQL-like query language is used for retrieval and reconstruction of Web data Similar to W ebSQL and W ebOQL TLGM accepts high-level descriptive queries as description on required services The difference is that in TLGM tags timestamps and content are used as query conditions Traditional centralized storage is not scalable enough for storing web data with huge volume Large-scale distributed storage systems are often chosen as a solution for this kind of tasks Cooperative File System P AST 14 and OceanStore are designed for storing 002les in distrib uted systems without coordinators They rely on Distributed Hash Table DHT protocols namely Google File System GFS is a system that uses centralized 002le lookup yet decentralized data access GFS is designed for applications with huge amount of parallel access to large 002les such as search engines And it is reported to be very ef\002cient and scalable DisG focuses on the problem of ho w to tak e advantage of such kind of distributed storage to manage complex data Map-reduce is a programming model for data intensive computing in large-scale distributed environments It splits a computing task into two phases the map phase and the reduce phase In each phase data are only processed locally within each node so that the cost of data transmitting can be saved Dryad is similar to GFS/MapReduce e xcept that it is developed based on Microsoft Windows Web data analysis and mining tools such as Sawzall PigLatin and W eb Studio 16 are de v eloped using mapreduce or Dryad 
144 


6 Future work DisG is still in its early development stage There are several research problems remain which are discussed as follows Structure index of graphs Though current implementation supports data object lookup and subgraph reconstruction to retrieve a subgraph given a path or graph pattern is still inef\002cient The problem become even more severe while the patterns are regular patterns in which wild-cards on content tag or even paths structures are allowed We are working on more sophisticated structure index for support such complex queries over graphs Traverse in graphs Currently DisG is designed for subgraph reconstruction However DisG cannot support graph traverse which means walk along with some pointers to visit a series of data objects ef\002ciently Therefore DisG is only a repository other than a full functional graph database Hadoop modi\002cation for DisG Hadoop is a general platform for distributed storage and computing tasks However the storage and mapping scheme used by Hadoop is not convenient for DisG from certain perspective For example the hashing function used in Hadoop is not designed for numerical attributes or structure index Therefore we are working on modi\002cation of Hadoop to better support DisG Utilization of BigTable and Hbase for DisG Current implentation of DisG is directly upon Hadoop BigTable and its correspondance in Hadoop Hbase provides more complicated and useful functions for structured data management We are working on the problem of DisG implementation over BigTable References  G O Arocena and A O Mendelzon W eboql Restructuring documents databases and webs In ICDE  pages 24–33 IEEE Computer Society 1998  G O Arocena A O Mendelzon and G A Mihaila Applications of a web query language Computer Networks  29\(8-13 1997  F  Chang J Dean S Ghema w at W  C Hsieh D A W allach M Burrows T Chandra A Fikes and R Gruber Bigtable A distributed storage system for structured data awarded best paper In OSDI  pages 205–218 USENIX Association 2006  F  Dabek M F  Kaashoek D R Kar ger  R Morris and I Stoica Wide-area cooperative storage with cfs In SOSP  pages 202–215 2001  J Dean and S Ghema w at Mapreduce Simpli\002ed data processing on large clusters In OSDI  pages 137–150 2004  S Ghema w at H Gobiof f and S.-T  Leung The google 002le system In M L Scott and L L Peterson editors SOSP  pages 29–43 ACM 2003  M Isard M Budiu Y  Y u A Birrell and D Fetterly  Dryad distributed data-parallel programs from sequential building blocks In EuroSys  pages 59–72 ACM 2007  J K ubiato wicz D Bindel Y  Chen S E Czerwinski P  R Eaton D Geels R Gummadi S C Rhea H Weatherspoon W Weimer C Wells and B Y Zhao Oceanstore An architecture for global-scale persistent storage In ASPLOS  pages 190–201 2000  C Olston B Reed U Sri v asta v a R K umar  and A Tomkins Pig latin a not-so-foreign language for data processing In J T.-L Wang editor SIGMOD Conference  pages 1099–1110 ACM 2008  R Pik e S Dorw ard R Griesemer  and S Quinlan Inter preting the data Parallel analysis with sawzall Scienti\002c Programming  13\(4 2005  W  Qian and A Zhou Chinese web infrastructure b uilding Challenges and our roadmap In INGS  2008  S Ratnasamy  P  Francis M Handle y  R M Karp and S Shenker A scalable content-addressable network In SIGCOMM  pages 161–172 2001  A I T  Ro wstron and P  Druschel P astry Scalable decentralized object location and routing for large-scale peer-topeer systems In R Guerraoui editor Middleware  volume 2218 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science  pages 329–350 Springer 2001  A I T  Ro wstron and P  Druschel  Storage management and caching in past a large-scale persistent peer-to-peer storage utility In SOSP  pages 188–201 2001  I Stoica R Morris D R Kar ger  M F  Kaashoek and H Balakrishnan Chord A scalable peer-to-peer lookup service for internet applications In SIGCOMM  pages 149 160 2001  J.-R W en and W Y  Ma W ebstudio b uilding infrastructure for web data management In C Y Chan B C Ooi and A Zhou editors SIGMOD Conference  pages 875–876 ACM 2007  B Y  Zhao J K ubiato wicz and A D Joseph T apestry a fault-tolerant wide-area application infrastructure Computer Communication Review  32\(1 2002 
145 


optimization problem maximizeA min~a 9 iC{1,2...M max 19 where Cmax is the maximum data upload capacity offered to the ith ground node Now consider a different optimization problem minimizeA max dAsg 20 ief 1,2 MI Note that 20 is a convex optimization problem We will now prove that the optimal airborne node location for 20 is the optimal one for 19 Lemmna 3.3 Let A be the optimal airborne node location for problem 20 then it is also the optimal airborne node location for problem 19 Proof Let Cmax f d g Since f  is a monotonically decreasing function therefore we have iem 1,2 Ml CMax\(A 21 for all values of A Also from optimality of A for problem 20 max dA_ g max dA4_gs iC{1,2 in the optimization problem Incorporating the relative phase in the optimization is another avenue of future research 6 f max d,4-g ic 1,2  MI M iC{1,2 M Example 2 Consider 4 ground nodes located at g1  160,375 92  260,360 93  560,525 and 94  580 280 The values are in nautical miles The first three ground nodes are locations of nodes 16 17 and 18 in the generic airborne network scenario discussed in 1 and shown in figure 1 We have added a forth dummy ground node to illustrate the concept Node 92 lies inside the triangle formed by nodes 9i 93 and 94 therefore upon solving problem 20 the optimal airborne node location turns out to be the circumcenter of the triangle formed by the nodes gj 93 and 94 If we change the dummy node to 94  360 500 then the optimal airborne location turns out to be the midpoint of the line between g and 93 Thus the optimal solution of problem 20 is the center of the minimum circle that inscribes all ground nodes In the following section we look at the scenario where we have multiple airborne nodes Scenario 3 Fair coverage of multiple ground nodes using multiple airborne nodes In this section we solve the problem of providing fair coverage to multiple ground nodes using multiple airborne nodes Formally the optimization problem can be stated as follows maximize{f1,...,Ai minm C max 26 subject to 22 dA,-Aj K rsep for all i j C S 27 Again from monotonicity of f  f max dM}d Ag5  fi,max d>*-gi 23 Substituting eqn 21 in the equation above we get min Cax A minM Cax  24 ief{1,2  MI a ief{1,2 m axA This implies that the airborne node location A attain the optimal in problem 19 v As already mentioned problem 20 is a convex optimization problem Note that if maxdgsigj  2\(Rgnd r i,j As before here S is the minimal set of communication links that we desire in the airborne network and Cmax is the maximum upload capacity at node i due to one or more airborne nodes It is understood that if at any given time instant a ground node is covered by more than one airborne node then the instantaneous maximum upload capacity is the same as that offered by any one airborne node The term Cmax depends not only on the points  Al  AN but also on the relative phases between the aircrafts One way to remove the dependence on the relative phase is to pose the following relaxed problem maximize{1 AN  minM max Cmax 28 subject to 25 dA j K rsep for all i j C S 29 then the solution to problem 19 is always zero for all values of the airborne node location This is because the farthest an airborne node can provide a non-zero Cmax is Rgnd  r thus one of the ground nodes is bound to be left out If the maximum is less than 2\(Rgnd  r then the solution A turns out to be the center of the minimum radius circle that encloses all the ground nodes This is illustrated in Example 2 Here CtJax is the maximum upload capacity at node i due to airborne node j The maximization problem in Equation 28 is analogous to the maximization problem in Equation 19 where maxje{1 N Cmiax and  Al   AN in the former problem correspond to Ci ax and A in the latter respectively 1Throughout this paper we assume that the relative phases between the aircrafts is not a design variable 


1  Ml Vj Therefore from Lemma 3.3 we know that the previous problem is equivalent to the following minimize{f A,...,AI max min dA3 gM 30 iC{f1,...,M jef{1,...,N subject to dAi Aj _ rsep for all i,j S E 31 This problem is equivalent to the continuous p-center problem 14 but with the connectivity constraints between the centers We make following observation regarding the complexity of the problem Notice that the problem in Equation 32 is the continuous pcenter problem which is NP hard We therefore look at the following two cases separately 1 Number of airborne nodes greater than or equal to the number of ground nodes In this case the solution to the first problem is obtained trivially by assigning M airborne nodes to the M ground node locations The locations of the remaining N M airborne nodes are unconstrained Next we solve the following convex problem minimize{1,,...,iA max d4 g  35 Proposition 3.4 The optimization problem described in Equations 30 and 31 is NP hard Proof Let M  N Let AiPt be the optimal location of the center of the ith trajectory for the unconstrained problem Also let Si be the set of ground nodes that have A Pt as the nearest trajectory center where i C  1 N Then Ai\260Pt must lie at the circumcenter of the points in Si But the cicumcenter of the points in Si belongs to the convex hull of Si Also since Si C  1 gM the convex hull of Si is a subset of the convex hull of 1 GM Thus A4opt A o pt is a subset of the convex hull of Q  Q g The NP hardness of the constrained problem therefore follows from the observation that with rsep  diameter{f 1 QM  the problem reduces to the unconstrained problem which in turn is the standard continuous pcenter problem which is known to be NP hard 14 U Since the problem is NP hard we now present a heuristic to solve the above problem The heuristic consists of two stages In the first stage we solve the following unconstrained optimization problem minimize{f1,A A max min dA3 gM 32 ATiC 1,...,M jC{f1,...,N Let A  A be the optimal locations of the airborne nodes obtained after solving the above problem In the second stage we solve the following problem minimize A  max dA O Vi Ei,j kij  1 43 Equation 38 describes the constraints in Equation 36 Equation 39 specifies the distances between all pairs of ground nodes Since the ground node locations are known so are the distances Note that for i C 1  M the left hand side of Equation 40 is dA ig,i Intuitively speaking by minimizing the variable t we are minimizing the upper bound on dA g which is equal to maxiC M dA-g A rigorous of the above reformulation can be found in 11 For a discussion on the remaining solution procedure please refer to Scenario 1 earlier in the section Figure 6 shows another scenario but now with five airborne nodes In this one 7  N  M Kii  K:jj-2K:ij  t Vi E  N  A 33 subject to dAi i_  rsep for all i,j S 8 34 Lemma 3.5 Convexity of the optimization problem The constrained optimization problem described in Equations 33 and 34 is a convex optimization problem Note that the constraints dA AjK rsep for all i j describe a convex set The fact that maxiC{1,...,N dAiA is a convex function of Al AN can be easily shown using the triangle inequality for metric spaces subject to dA,-Aj K rsep for all i j C ES 36 Two example scenarios are discussed as follows In the first scenario we have four ground and four airborne nodes The locations of the ground nodes are as depicted by the asterisks in Figure 5 The airborne network topology is a ring The constant rsep is 200 nautical miles The blue solid lines in Figure 5 denote communication links between the airborne nodes The dashed lines represent the communication links between the airborne and ground nodes The numeric values represent distances for the corresponding links To obtain the optimal locations of the airborne trajectory centers we first relax the problem and pose it as a semi-definite program Notice that this problem is a convex optimization problem and can be solved even if the objective function is not differentiable using sub-gradient methods However our heuristic involving SDP has also been observed to give optimal solutions The semi-definite program is as follows First let us define the augmented vector X  Al  4ANQ1    GM and let C  XTX The optimization problem in Equations 35 and 36 can be written as min t 37 subject to K:ii  K:jj-21 ij  rp Vi j E K:ii  K:jj-2Kij  dgi gj Vi j E N  1 j IC O 38 39 40 41 42 E N  MI   


of the nodes is not assigned to any ground node as described earlier The topology for airborne network is again a ring Notice that the communication links between airborne and ground nodes are shorter now signifying greater upload capacity This is due to the fact that the extra airborne node allows for the network to spread out more and hence get closer to the ground nodes 4 Ground nodes 4 Airborne nodes Ix 32 3464 250 P 200 f68 3215 150 49~2218 100 501541 98 99 74 52 0632 1 Choose uniformly and randomly N cluster centers 2 Assign each ground node to the cluster center that is nearest to it Let Qcl  c be the ground nodes assigned to the cth cluster 3 For each cluster say c compute the new cluster center as k  Argmin max dA-gm i A i{fci  I 44 4 Repeat the above steps till the locations of the cluster centers do not change beyond a certain threshold Let A AN be the cluster centers kl  kN obtained as the output of the algorithm Next the convex optimization problem in Equations 33 and 34 is solved to obtain the desired airborne trajectory centers   760~53 52 0632 200 150 100 50 0 50 100 150 x Figure 5 Coverage using multiple airborne nodes when locations of ground nodes are known Here we have 4 ground nodes denoted by s and 4 airborne nodes denoted by circles The axes represent x,y lLocations on a 2 D plane The optimal placement results in each airborne node providing coverage to a unique ground node while maintaining a connected topology between themselves 1-76-77-72142265 150 100 50 0 x 39 5904 50 100 Figure 6 In thLs case there is an extra airborne node The op timal placement in this case results in higher maximum data upload capacity to each ground node Note that one airborne node approximately at 60,130 acts purely as a relay 2 Number of ground nodes greater than the number of airborne nodes In this case the problem in general is NP hard An efficient and popular method of solving this problem is a heuristic similar to the k-means clustering algorithm described as follows 4 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK Conclusions In this paper we have studied the placement planning problem of the airborne network We first define two metrics maximum data upload capacity for air-ground links and worst case link activity percentage for air-air links We have shown that the maximum data upload capacity is a measure of the coverage provided to a single ground node and the worst case link activity percentage for a single air-air link is a decreasing function of the distance between the centers of the loiter orbits of the airborne nodes We have also discussed how this measure is useful in the design of networks for delay-tolerant applications This paper considers three practically interesting scenarios for the deployment of the airborne network backbone where the purpose of the airborne network is to provide coverage to the ground nodes while maintaining a certain degree of reliability and connectivity in the inter-airborne node topol8 250 200 7.3458 46.9364 Figure 7 A snapshot of the optimal coverage of 4 ground nodes using 5 airborne nodes The rings at the top indicate the loiter orbits of the airborne nodes the shaded circles on the ground indicate their respective instantaneous coverage disk and the fixed ground node positions are indicated by s 150  100 _ 50 24.9954 200 4 Ground nodes 5 Airborne nodes 15.8688 


ogy Results of this paper can be directly useful to the Objective Gateway program of the Air Force where several Battlefield Airborne Communication Nodes BACNs and their ground counterparts the Rapid Attack Information Dissemination Execution Relay RAIDERs The goal of the Objective Gateway program is to provide networking technology to the forward edge of the battlefield and create a high-capacity airborne communication backbone Future Work This paper is the first step towards developing a mission planning toolbox for the airborne network deployment problem A few further research directions could be accounting for link disruptions due to airborne platform banking expanding the optimization search space to include non-circular or tilted loiter orbits accounting for terrain effects providing coverage to mobile airborne nodes that are involved in a mission tactical edge networks planning so as to optimally use satellite communication when certain airborne links are inactive developing multiple tiers of airborne backbones located at different elevations and incorporating topology control such that the airborne nodes can change power levels thus radio range during periods where airborne topology is sparse ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors would like to thank Maneesh Varshney and Prof Mario Gerla for insightful discussions on the subject matter of this paper This work was supported under Air Force phase I SBIR grant number FA8750-07-C-0158 7 K Schroth and D Kiwior Interdomain Routing for Mobile Nodes Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2007 to appear 8 E G I D Kiwior and S V Pizzi Quality of Service QoS Sensitivity for the OSPF Protocol in the Airborne Networking Environment Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 9 L V J Cooley 0 Huang and S McGarry Mobile Airborne Networking Experience with Paul Revere Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 10 K Q Weinberger and L K Saul Unsupervised Learning of Image Manifolds by Semidefinite Programming International Journal of Computer Vision vol 70 no 1 pp 77-90 2006 11 S Boyd and L Vandenberghe Convex Optimization Cambridge University Press 2006 12 J Lfberg Yalmip A toolbox for modeling and optimization in MATLAB in Proceedings of the CACSD Conference Taipei Taiwan 2004 Online Available http://control.ee.ethz.ch joloef/yalmip.php 13 R A Horn and C R Johnson Matrix Analysis Cambridge University Press 1985 14 N Megiddo and A Tamir New results on the complexity of p-center problems SIAM Journal on Computing vol 12 no 4 pp 751-758 November 1983 REFERENCES 1 T A Kostas and T G Macdonald A Methodology for Evaluating and Planning Future Airborne Networks Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2004 2 R Ramirez Link Management in the Air Force Airborne Network Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 3 Y Wang and Y J Zhao Fundamental Issues in Systematic Design of Airborne Networks for Aviation Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference 2006 4 B Epstein and V Mehta Free Space Optical Communications Routing Performance in Highly Dynamic Airspace Environment Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference 2004 5 M Dehkordi K Chandrashekhar and J S Baras A placement algorithm for enhanced connectivity and reliability in wireless ad-hoc networks in Conference on Future Networking Technologies CoNEXT Toulouse France October 2005 6 D Kiwior and L Lam Routing Protocol Performance over Intermittent Links Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2007 to appear 9 


 10 D e L one  W  H  a n d Mc L e a n E.R   T he D e L one a nd McLean Model of Information Systems Success: A Ten-Year Update Journal of Management Information Systems Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 9-30, 2003 11 D e nz i n N  K  a nd L i nc o l n, Y  S Handbook of Qualitative Research Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA 1994 1 Di n een  B  L i n g  J  A s h  S  an d Del V ecch i o  D   Aesthetic properties and message customisation Navigating the dark side of web recruitment  Journal of Applied Psychology Vol. 92, No. 2, pp. 356-372 2007 13 Fe l d m a n, D  a nd K l a a s B Inte rne t j o b h unti n g  A  field study of applicant experiences with online recruitment Human Resource Management Vol. 41 No. 2, pp. 175-201, 2002 14 G a la nk i, E The decision to recruit online: A descriptive study  Career Development International  Vol. 7, No. 4, 2002 1 G u eu t a l  H G  an d S t on e D  L    The Brave New World of eHR: Human resources management in the digital age Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, 2005 16 H a da y a  P  a nd Et hie r J  Online purchasing of simple goods: the impact of e-service quality as provided by electronic commerce functionalities  Proceedings of the 41 st Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2008 1 G r  n r oo s C   Service Management and Marketing Customer Management in Service Competition 3rd Edition, Wiley & Sons, Chichester, 2007 18 Ho llow a y  B.B. a nd Be a tty S.E Satisfiers and Dissatisfiers in the Online Environment: A Critical Incident Assessment  Journal of Service Research  Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 347-364, 2008 1 Kl ei n H K and M y ers M  D  A S e t o f P r i n ci p l es for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems MIS Quarterly Vol 23, No. 1, pp. 67-93, 1999 20 Kri ppe nd orf f  K Reliability in content analysis some common misconceptions and recommendations  Human Communication Research Vol. 30, pp. 411433, 2004 21 L e e  I The evolution of e-recruiting: A content analysis of Fortune 100 career web sites  Journal of Electronic Commerce in Organizations Vol. 3, No. 3 pp. 57-68, 2005 22 Le e  T W   Using qualitative methods in organizational research Sage, Thousand Oaks, 1999 2 Ngw e n g a m a O K and A  S  L ee  Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning  MIS Quarterly  Vol. 21, pp. 145 167, 1997 2 L i even s F  an d Harris  M   Research o n I n tern et  recruiting and testing: current status and future directions, In: Cooper, C., Robertson, I. \(Eds International Review of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Vol. 18, pp. 131-165, 2003 25 L i n, C S. a nd W u  S Ex pl oring t h e im pa c t of on line  service quality on portal site usage Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2002 26 Mc Cu ne J  C Good help is hard to find  Management Review Vol. 86, No. 6, pp. 30-31, 1997 27  Mile s   M.B. a nd H ube rm an, A  M Qualitative data analysis: An expanded sourcebook Thousand Oaks CA, Sage, 1994 28  P a rasu ram a n  A Zeith am l, V  A  an d Mal h o t ra A ES-Qual: A Multiple-Item Scale for Assessing Electronic Service Quality Journal of Service Research Vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 213-233, 2005 29 P a rry  E Drivers of the adoption of online recruitment an analysis using diffurion of innovation theory In Bondarouk, T.V., Ruël, H.J.M. \(Eds\E-HRM in theory and practice. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2008 30 a tto n  M.Q  Qualitative research and evaluation methods Thousand Oaks, CA, Sage, 2002 31 R odg e r s  W N e g a s h S. a n d Suk  K  The moderating effect of online experience on the antecedents and consequences of online satisfaction  Psychology Marketing Vol. 22, No. 4, pp. 313-331, 2005 32 R o w l e y J An Analysis of the E-Service Literature Towards a Research Agenda  Internet Research Vol 16, No. 13, pp. 339-359, 2006 3 Ru st  R T  an d Kann an   P  K   E-Service: A New Paradigm for Business in the Electronic Environment  Communications of the ACM Vol. 46, No. 5, pp. 3742. 2003 34  Sa c h a f P  a n d Oltm a nn, S M Equality and e-service quality  Proceedings of the 40 st Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2007 35 Sa n t os, J E-service quality A model of virtual service quality dimensions  Managing Service Quality Vol.13, No. 3, pp. 233-246, 2003 3  S m i t h  A  D an d Rup p W  T    Managerial challenges of e-recruiting  Online Information Review Vol. 28 No. 1, pp. 61-74, 2004 37 St one D  L Sto n e Rom e r o, E. F  a nd L u k a s z e w s k i  K Factors affecting the acceptance and effectiveness of electronic human resource systems  Human Resource Management Review Vol. 16, No. 2, pp 229-244, 2006 38 T ong J D u f f y  V Cros s  G  T s ung F. a nd Y e n, B Evaluating the industrial ergonomics of service quality for online recruitment websites  International  Journal of Industrial Ergonomics Vol. 35, pp. 697711, 2005 39  Va n Ma a n e n J  A n End of I nnoc e n c e T h e Ethnography of Ethnography," In: Representation in Ethnography, J. Van Maanen \(ed.\ge, Thousand Oaks, CA, pp. 1-35, 1995 40 W o lf inba rg e r M. a nd G ill y  M.C eTailQ Dimensionalizing, measuring and predicting etail quality  Journal of Retailing Vol. 79, No. 3, pp. 183198, 2003 41 W o lte rs M The Effectiveness of job board Internet Recruitment Proceedings of the First European Academic Workshop on e-HRM, The Netherlands 2006 4 Z u sm an  R an d L a n d i s R   Applicant preferences for web-based versus traditional job posting  Computers in Human Behaviour Vol. 18, pp. 285-296, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Alan Little is the MEDLI Project Manager at NASA's Langley Research Center He previously served on a variety of earth remote sensing missions and recently served as the NASA-CNES interface manager and the payload assembly integration and test manager on the joint NASAICNES CALIPSO Mission that was launched in April 2006 He has a MS in Optics from the University of Rochester Neil Cheatwood earned B.S MS and Ph.D degrees in aerospace engineering from NC State University He has played key roles in a number of NASA's planetary atmospheric flight programs and is a nationally recognized expert in aerosciences and flight mechanics for planetary entry systems He is currently serving as the Hypersonics Project Scientist for the Fundamental Aeronautics Program with NASA's ARMD Dr Cheatwood is also the Principle Investigator for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project In recent years he led NASA LaRC efforts to develop inflatable aeroshell technologies He served as CoInvestigator to Claude Graves of NASA JSC on the NASA ESMD ESR&T Inflatable Aeroshell and TPS Development IA TD Project He served as the Principle Investigator for NASA LaRCs Inflatable Reentry Vehicle Experiment IRVE as well as the follow-on Program to Advance Inflatable Decelerators for Atmospheric Entry PAI-DAE Dr Cheatwood was responsible for aerodynamic databases of Stardust Mars Microprobe Genesis and Mars Exploration Rovers He has also contributed to the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Sample Return flight projects Dr Cheatwood is an AIAA Associate Fellow and the principle author or co-author of 60 technical publications in the fields of fluid dynamics atmospheric entry and systems engineering Jeff Herath serves as the Lead Systems Engineer and Chief Engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI He also serves as the Assistant Head of the Atmospheric Flight and Entry Systems Branch AFESB to plan direct and coordinate Branch activities in the areas offlight and entry systems research and development Mr Herath previously was the Acting Assistant Branch Head for Electronic Systems and served as the branch leadfor new business activities proposals and their development He was also the Principal Investigator PI for the Radiation Tolerant Intelligent Memory Stack RTIMS Project which successfully developed and demonstrated an in-flight reconfigurable radiation tolerant stacked memory array He co-founded Vianix LC a company developing and licensing voice compression technology and served as its Chief Technology Officer He developed the company's voice compression technology and was responsible for all research  development engineering personnel and production efforts He has 6 patents As Manager of Hardware Development at Arc Second Inc he designed and built a unique laser based three-dimensional positioning system which opened new markets for the company At E-Systems he successfully completed several military avionics programs and payload that were classified and consisted of system box and board level designs Michelle Munk has been a NASA employee for nearly 20 years first at the Johnson Space Center then at the Langley Research Center She has been involved in Mars advanced mission studies for many years both robotic and human contributing interplanetary trajectory analysis and entry and descent analysis She has managed the delivery of International Space Station hardware and was on the Mars Odyssey aerobraking operations team In 2002 Ms Munk accepted a detail assignment to become the Lead Engineer for Aerocapture Technology Development under In-Space Propulsion at Marshall Space Flight Center She managed the technical work of ISP Aerocapture for nearly 5 years before becoming the Project Area Manager and returning to Langley in 2007 Ms Munk is also a subsystem leadfor the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project and contributes to other NASA projects developing entry system technologies She has a BSAE from Virginia Tech and completed graduate coursework at the University of Houston Frank Novak is an Assistant Branch Head for Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA He serves as the MEDLI Subsystem Manager for the Sensor Support Electronics SSE system Mr Novak has over 20 years of experience in the design development and test of spaceflight electronics He served as the lead development manager for the EVA IR Camera Project lead engineer for the visible imager for the GIFTS project lead electronics engineer for the pointing spectrometer for the Mars ARES project lead integration and test engineer for the SAGE III project and lead engineer for the interface adaptor module for SAGE III He earned a BS in Physics from Christopher Newport University in 1999 11 


Ed Martinez is a Project Manager/Lead Scientist/Project Engineer with 20 years experience in the aerospace and electromechanical field He is responsible for leading the Thermal Protection System TPS instrumentation programs for the NASA Ames Research Center As Project Manager he simultaneously managed multiple teams of scientists engineers and engineering technicians responsible for TPS projects including test analysis and technology advancement As Lead Scientist he was engaged in the characterization and operations of the world's largest shock tube This facility produced simultaneous overpressure and thermal environments at shock speeds up to Mach 5 As a Project Engineer his experience included project initiation coordination and providing design and instrument criteria for operating multi-100 million dollar DoD facilities Mr Martinez also managed data handling performed analysis reporting of test results and maintained technical proficiency in shockwave phenomenology 12 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


