A Short Introduction to Data Mining and Its Applications Zhang Haiyang Globe science and engineering College Globe science and engineering College of Suzhou University Suzhou, Anhui province, 234000, China seazhang188@126.com   Abstract\227With the rapid growth of data mining technologies and data mining tools, data mining will be applied more widely in various areas. In 
this paper we will introduce some models and solutions of data mining, especially we place more emphasizes on the applications of the associated rules and solutions of data mining in e-commerce Keywords-Data Mining; applications; patterns  I  I NTRODUCTION  In recent years, data mining has been obtained a great deal of attention in the 
information industry and in society, due to the wide availability of huge amounts of data and the imminent need for turning such data into useful information and knowledge. The gained information and knowledge can be used for various applications which can rang from market analysis to production control and science researches [1   The data mining technology is one 
comprehensive application of technology item relying on the database technology, statistical analysis, artificial intelligence, and it has shown great commercial value and gradually to other profession penetration in the retail, insurance telecommunication, power industries use. It is found in large data warehouse and extract hidden in which information is a new technology helping decision-makers search Data between the 
potential links and found neglected factor The rapid development and integration of databases provides researchers, and business people with numerous new resources that can be  analyzed to make scientific discoveries, optimize industrial systems, and uncover financially valuable patterns. To undertake these large data analysis projects, researchers and practitioners have adopted established algorithms from 
statistics, machine learning, neural networks, and databases and have also developed new methods aimed at large data mining problems. Data mining is one component of the exciting area of machine learning and adaptive computation. The goal of building computer systems that can adapt to their environments and to earn from their  experience has attracted researchers from many 
fields, including computer science, engineering mathematics, physics, neuroscience, and cognitive science. There has come out varieties of learning techniques that have the potentiality to transform many scientific and industrial fields from this research. Several research communities have agreed on a set of common issues including supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning problems. Progress in digital data 
acquisition and storage technology has resulted in the development of huge databases. This has taken place in all areas of human endeavor, from the mundane \(such as supermarket transaction data, credit card usage records, telephone call 978-1-4244-6581-1/11/$26.00 \2512011 IEEE 


details, and government statistics\ to the more exotic \(such as images of astronomical bodies molecular databases, and medical records\. Let us think a little, then, that interest has grown in the possibility of tapping these data, of extracting from them information that might be of value to the owner of the database. The discipline which is concerned with this task has become known as data mining. Defining a scientific discipline is always a controversial task; researchers often disagree about the precise range and limits of their field of study. Bearing this in mind, and accepting that others might disagree about the details, we shall adopt as our working definition of data mining: Data mining is the analysis of often large\ observational data sets to find unsuspected relationships and to summarize the data in novel ways that are both understandable and useful to the data owner. The relationships and summaries derived through a data mining exercise are often referred to as models or patterns. Examples include linear equations rules, clusters, graphs, tree structures, and recurrent patterns in time series [2  II   S OME USEFUL DATA MINING PATTERNS  Data mining is combined with database artificial intelligence and statistics and so on Database, artificial intelligence and statistics support the development of data mining. The main tasks of data mining are to learn by association rules based on decision tree and cluster class, and to get data samples through Bayesian Classification, neutral network and statistic analysis and other techniques Nowadays, the most commonly used data mining techniques are fuzzy logic, rough set, genetic algorithms and so on There are many kinds of data mining patterns. Data mining functionalities are used to specify the kind of patterns to be found in data mining tasks. In general, data mining tasks can be classified into two categories: descriptive and predictive. Descriptive mining tasks characterize the general properties of the data in the database Predictive mining tasks perform inference on the current detain order to make predictions According to functions, data mining patterns can be classified into association pattern, sequence pattern, classification pattern and cluster pattern We will shortly introduce them as follows [3  A.  Association pattern This pattern describes the association rules between data. The application of this pattern is a shopper found the inner association between the diapers and beers B.  Cluster pattern This pattern divides the records in database into different groups. In the same group, the groups have the similar properties. Between groups the differences should be as bigger as possible, and in the same group, the differences should be as smaller as possible 4    Figure1  A 2-D plot of customer data with respect to customer locations in a city, showing three data clusters Each cluster “center” is marked with a C  Classification pattern It should be a classification function \(also called classifier\ Data classification is a two-step process, which is learning and classification. As shown for the loan application data of Figure1. In the process of learning, training data are analyzed 


by a classification algorithm. Here, the class label attribute is loan decision, and the learned model or classifier is represented in the form of classification rules. In the process of classification, test data are used to estimate the accuracy of the classification rules. If the accuracy is considered acceptable, the rules can be applied to the classification of new data tulles Figure2.The data classification processes :\(a\ Learning. \(b\ Classification D  Sequence pattern This pattern associates the associations and time between data. In order to find this pattern we not only need to know if the incident occurs and also know the accurate time that the incident happens III  T HE APPLICATIONS OF DATA MINING IN VARIOUS AREAS  With the development of information technologies, especially with database technologies and computer network technologies widely used, the data that companies held increased sharply. If these data can be analyzed quickly and efficiently, companies can find useful information and to make plans through these information. Luckily, database mining technologies and products is developing maturely and benefits companies greatly. In this section we will shortly introduce the applications of data mining in various areas A  The applications of data mining in finance In finance areas, the data is numerous such as the data of bank and coupon companies are numerous. Because of credit card fraud, banks are suffered from great loss So if banks can use data mining to analyze the reputations of clients to reduce the losses 


B  The applications of data mining in commerce In commerce areas, especially in retail data mining is used successfully. Because of MIS system commonly used in industry, particularly the use of encryption technologies. Companies can collect the amount of useful data on purchases, and the mount of data continues to surge. Using data mining technology can provide the management administrators with correct decision methods; this promotes sales and improves competitiveness C  The applications of data mining in medicine The applications of data mining in medicine are very widely. Data mining can be used to improve efficiency and profits. In drug synthesis through the chemical structure of the sub-Analysis, drug molecules can determine what kind of drug in the atom or atoms gene have effective function on some disease, so that in the synthesis of new drugs, according to new drugs to determine the molecular structure of the drug will have which kind of disease could be treated IV  THE  MAIN  PROBLEMS  OF  DATA  MINING Considering the methods of Data Mining and various types, the main problems of Data Mining are as follows A   Digging different knowledge of types Because different users may be interested in different knowledge of types, data mining system should cover large ranges of data analysis and knowledge discovery tasks B  Multiple abstraction layers interaction knowledge mining Because it is difficult to know precisely that what can be found in the database, so data mining process is the interactive. It allows households to request according to the results returned by data mining and refining C  Combining background knowledge You can use background knowledge or information about the research to guide the discovery process D  Representation of the data mining results The discovered knowledge should use high-level language, visual representation or other representation forms making knowledge easy to understand, which can be directly used by people. If the data mining system is interactive, it is especially important E  Handling complex data types Database may contain complex data objects hypertext and multimedia data, spatial data, time data or transaction data. For the specific types of data mining, data mining should be a specific system structure. Thus, for different types of data we may have different data mining system V  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, we shortly introduce the concepts of Data Ming and its applications. With the advent of the information age, the degree of corporate information continues to deepen companies collect a large number of products customers, sales and other information and data how to dig out from these data valuable knowledge, decision support, will be a subject of the era of knowledge economy  R EFERENCES  1  M i c h eli n e K a m b er  J i a w ei H a n   D a t a  M i n i n g C o n c ept s  and Techniques, Second Edition. Nov.3, 2005: 6-9 2 a v i d H a n d H e ik ki Ma n n il a an d P a d h r a ic S m y t h  Principles of Data Mining,The MIT Press, 2001:1-5 3 i X i n s h i T he a p pl ica t io ns  o f dat a  m i ni ng i n  e-commerce.Journal of Guangxi Teacher Education University\(Natural Science Edition\.Vol.21,Sep.2004:1-3 4 D av id H e cke r m a n  B a y e sian N e t w or k f o r D a ta M i n i ng  Data Mini ng and Knowledge Discovery, 1997:79-119 


perform reduct such as Johnson Reducer, Genetic Algorithm Dynamic Reduct, Holte1R, and SIP/DRIP.  Each method use different method to control the generation of rule from dataset Generally, the rough set approach consists of several steps leading towards the final goal of generating rule from information system as given below Forming decision system by mapping information from the data source Completion of data Descritization of data Reducts computation of data Obtain rule from the reduct Classification of new unseen data  III. MODEL DEVELOPMENT The experimental dataset use in this study is called programming dataset.  It comprises information about performance profile of Bachelor of Information Technology students of Faculty of IT, Universiti Utara Malaysia in the year 2004-2005 The dataset were merging of two data collections.  First primary data was collected from two instruments randomly distributed to students who have taken introductory programming which represents student personality type Second, further data of the respondents on their previous academic background, demographic variable and grade in Introductory Programming course was obtained from the Academic Affairs Department of the university. Figure 1 depicts the model development of the study The performance information are the student result in several programming subject particularly in introductory programming, demographic information such as gender, prior experience in programming, Malaysia Certificate of Education SPM seven question aptitude test, and personality test. There are 419 records elaborated with 70 mixture types of attributes and a decision class. They represent about 31% of the population The students come from various program such as Bachelor in Information Technology \(BIT BMM DEC Education specializing in IT \(EDU introductory programming subject. Table I shows the 


distribution of students in terms of gender and program. There are 72% female students and 28% male students where about 75% students are from the BIT program  Data Cleaning Attribute Reduction Data Allocation Rough Set GA Reduct ComputationDicernability Matrix ROSETTA Data Descritization 1011 1121 1001 Equivalence class Evaluate factor that effect student grades Personality test Color Test Questionnaire Academic records UUM Academic Affairs Department Programming Dataset Integrate 5 folds 90:10 80:20 70:30 60:40 50:50 Generate rule 


 Figure 1.  Model Developmet of the Study TABLE I.  DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENT  Program Total BIT BMM DEC EDU Gender male 87 16 1 12 116 female 226 33 3 41 303 Total 313 49 4 53 419  Out of 419 students, 15.1% obtained excellent grade, 23.2 were recorded as good, 39% as fair and 22.7% in weak group The preliminary observation on the raw dataset, some attributes were not related to study, certain values were missing and duplicate. To mine the data, this study was divided into two phases namely data preparation for mining and pattern extraction  A. Data Preparation for mining During preprocessing task, all dataset were pre-processed where all unknown numeric attributes were replaced with mean value while max value for character attributes.  Then, the data were discretized using boolean reasoning technique. The programming dataset contains large number of attributes \(70 attributes therefore only important attributes were selected for mining During selection, nine attribute which stored student experience status in particular programming skill namely Java C++, C, Visual Basic, ASP, PHP, COBOL, Pascal, and Prolong were reclassified into three new groups based on the programming language characteristic.  The new groups were Object, Structured, and Declarative.  Figure II shows the reduction of nine attributes into Object, Structured, and Declarative  Figure 2.  Attribute reduction on student experience attributes in particular programming language Out of the 70 attributes, only 21 attributes were accepted for the next stage as depicted in figure 3. The data was then split into training \(tn tr validation technique. There were 5 different folds created based on ratio of tn and tr; 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, 60:40, and 50:50 


Table II portrays the marks of each category. The categories were considered as target during mining. The output of this phase was a set of clean data TABLE II.  CATEGORIES FOR PROGRAMMING PERFORMANCE BASED ON TIA1013 SUBJECT Category Grades Marks Excellent A, A-, B+ Above 70 Good B,B- 60%-70 Fair C, C+ 50%-60 Weak D,D+,F Less than 50  Figure 3.  List of accepted attributes for mining The attributes in figure 3 represents the academics and personality information of the student.  In academic group, it stores the demographic information of the students \(Program Gander enter the university \(PreExp they have learn \(Structured, Object, and Declarative grade  in Bahasa Melayu \(PBM PM English \(PBI Aptitude The BGold, Bgreen, BBlue, and BOrange in personality group hold the scores of color test while the Creal, CInv, Cart CSoc, CEn, and CCon represent the result of Hollands  personality test.  Each score of the test represent the personality of the student. Table III and IV elaborate both tests in detail TABLE III.  COLOUR PERSONALITY CATEGORY [14 Color Meaning Gold \(BGold  Systematic, Responsible, Reliable Conforming Green \(BGreen Cool, Knowledgeable Blue \(BBlue Orange \(Borange TABLE IV.  HOLLANDS PERSONALITY TYPE \([14, 15, 16 Type Characteristics Investigative CInv Curious, precise, unpopular, analytical and rational 


They have scientific and mathematical ability Prefer to work on their own, in a research environment Realistic CReal A social, conforming, practical and persistent. Have mechanical ability. Prefer to work with their hands use tools, outdoors and caring for animals, crops and plants Artistic CArt Impulsive, Disorganized, Original, Imaginative Complicated, Creative individuals Social CSoc Emphatic, warm, kind, patient and helpful Prefer to teach and help others Enterprising CEn Dominant, adventure, self-confident, talkative and energetic, persuasive Conventional CCon Conforming, ordering, persistent, practical and unimaginative.  Like working with numbers Prefer routine and predetermined instructions in a work environment  B. Pattern Mining In this phase, the clean dataset was mined using rough set technique and ROSETTA was chosen as rough classifier tools In the application, it has 4 reduct computation algorithmsGenetic Algorithm \(GA and Holte1R. The reduct method determines the selection of important attributes that can represent the problem and later use in generating classification rule. It effects the quality of rule or valuable knowledge such as the number of rule, the length of the generated rule, the accuracy of rule in classifying new problems. Figure 4 depicts the basic reduct computation method. From the preliminary reduct selection test, GA was selected to mine the programming dataset since it had generated better accuracy.  Rough set is a supervised learning 


type. Thus, the last column of dataset that is the programming skill- excellent, good, fair, and weak was considered as target To extract the characteristics that influence programming the experiment was divided in two processes. First, find the best model which can be the best representation of the whole data. The selection of the best model is based on the accuracy of the model, the less number of rule generated, shorter rule and has high coverage. Second, evaluates the best model to identify the characteristic that influence student programming grade.  In this step, it focused at excel and weak programming group  Figure 4.  Basic Reduct Computation [17 IV. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULT In this section, the experiment results of the mining are represented. The goals and notations of the experiments are formalized. The rough set model is given as RS. The training and testing data are given as tr and ts while the chosen reduct functions namely Genetic Algorithm is given as GA.  Since RS is a rule based mining method, it generates knowledge in rule form. Thus, the accuracy \(acc nr maximum length of rule \(rl cv recorded during experiment.  Those are the criteria to select the best model. The acc of the classification shows how good the obtained rule can classify new cases. Beside that, the nr indicates the amount of knowledge needed to provide good accuracy while the rl is maximum number of condition attribute of the rule. cv refers to coverage of the mined knowledge towards unseen data. Table V portrays the mining results of programming data TABLE V.  THE MINING RESULT tn:ts GA acc nr rl cv 90:10 83 32,629 4 0.175472 80:20 86 27,651 3 0.190909 70:30 90.5 23,109 3 0.208108 60:40 90 18.443 3 0.242 50:50 80 15,181 3 0.245833  From the table V, all models seem had generated a comparable result in term of acc, rl, and cv. The 60:40 model was chosen as the best model. This was due to the high acc 


good rule cv with less nr.  Although the acc of 70:30 model was 0.5 higher than 60:40, the distinction was not significant as well as had generated the greater nr. The model with lesser nr but generates good acc is better than model that use more rule to generate same result [12]. Table VI shows the rule classification of the best model. The last column depicts the nr of each programming skill and tr is the number of training record to generate nr   TABLE VI.  RULE CLASSIFICATION OF THE BEST MODEL Programming Skill 60:40 \(acc=90 tr nr Excellent 32 3003 Good 59 4567 Fair 99 6092 Weak 60 4772 Total 250 18443  To indentify the factor that influence programming grade we further analysis rules by focusing the excellent and weak group.  Figure 5 portrays the sample of rules of the both groups Excell PrevExp\(Y B 12 Excel PrevExp\(N B 7 Excel Program\(bit B 24 Excel Program\(bmm A A Excel Program\(edu D 16 Excel Program\(edu D 22 Excel PM\(A 18 17 Excel PM\(A 18 21 Excel Gender\(l B 22 Excel Gender\(l C 20 Excel  Weak PrevExp\(Y D 20 Weak PrevExp\(N C 17 Weak PM\(C 26 17 Weak PBI\(E 17 12 Weak 


PBI\(F B 19 Weak Gender\(p C 15 Weak Gender\(p C 21 Weak Gender\(p A 15 Weak PrevExp\(Y 15 26 Weak Program\(edu l 22 Weak  Figure 5.  The rule sample of the excellent and weak group From the analysis on the generated rules, it shows that student with programming experience before enter the university has benefit to score the programming subject However, some rules indicate that the programming background is not guarantee the student can score programming well. The result was similar to [7, 10, 11].  In line with many literatures, gender plays important role when male is performed better than female. Furthermore, rough set analysis found that student can score programming well with only the average grade in Mathematic and English during SPM at least at grade C subject might face difficulties in learning programming Additionally, another finding which is contradict with previous study is the majority of excel group student has good grade in Malay Language \(at least B grade program that needs student to enroll programming subject, all programs have similar chances to score the subject The relationship between personality factors towards programming grades was also investigated.  Out of 3003 rules of excellent group, there are 2184 rules which describe the personality test result.  We further investigated all rules and from the analysis, many students with investigative type and average cognitive ability have ability to excel programming The findings were similar to [7, 11]. Interestingly, rough set also identified that the social type student also can do programming well. From the literature, a social type is an emphatic, warm, kind, patient and helpful person as well as prefers to teach and help others. Figure 6 summarizes the rule analysis of personality test of the excellent group. The figure shows that the highest score of the investigative type student C11-C20 and C21-C32 social type student. Based on Holland the theory, it is not suggested the personality of student must fall into one the six categories, but rather are composed of one each of the six 


personality orientation. Generally, the Investigative, Artistic and Social are expected to associate together and less of the characteristic associated with Realistic, Enterprising, or conventional personality type [18  Figure 6.  Rule analysis of personality test of the excellent group Table VII represents the comparison between this study and previous researches that use similar dataset TABLE VII.  COMPARISON BETWEEN THIS STUDY AND PREVIOUS RESEARCHES THAT USE SIMILAR DATASET  Study Approach Characteristic Academic Demographic Personality  Statistic [7   Good grade in English Mathematics in SPM, Previous exposure to programming    Male student scores batter   Average cognitive ability, Own investigative type of personality K-Means 11 Good background in Mathematics in 


SPM    Good cognitive ability, Own investigative type of personality  Association Rule [12 Good grade in English Mathematics in SPM at least B grade, Previous exposure to programming mainly structured programming However it is not   Male student scores batter     compulsory  Rough Set This study Average grade in English Mathematics Malay Language  in SPM at least C grade, Previous exposure to programming but 


not necessary   Male student scores batter  Average cognitive ability Investigative and social type of orientation  V. CONCLUSION In this paper, a dataset of undergraduate student from Faculty of IT, UUM was mined using rough set technique Formerly, there were several researches had mined the data using statistic, clustering, and association rule. This study was aimed to identify another unique characteristic that influence student programming grade using other data analysis method The study indicates that student prior experience in programming before university can contributes to a good grade but it is not guarantee that they can easily score the subject The study also reveals that average grades in Mathematic English, and Malay language during SPM also can influence the final grade. Moreover, male student performance is looked better than female.  In term of personality factor, the investigative and social type plus average cognitive person are found as important factors that influence programming.  This finding can be a guideline for the faculty to plan teaching and learning program for new registered student  REFERENCES  1] Z.H.Khan. Information Technology: The importance of programming languages.,2000. [Access date: 23 May 2010 http://www.pakistaneconomist.com/issue2000/issue23/etc5.htm 2] Every Day Space. The Benefits of Computer Programming., 2008 Access date: 30 May 2010 http://www.everydayspace.org/2008/02/04/the-benefits-of-computerprogramming 3] Bergin, S. and Reilly, R. Programming: Factors that Influence 


Success,  Proceedings SIGCSE05. Feb 23-27. Missourri, US. pp 411 415, 2005 4] Wiedenbeck, S. Factors affecting the success of non-majors in learning to program. Proceedings of the first international workshop on Computing education. Seattle, WA, USA, Pg:13  24,  2005 5] Alias, M., Hanawi, S.A. and Arshad, A..  Faktor-faktor Kegagalan Pandangan pelajar Yang mengulang Kursus Pengaturcaraan C, Paper presented in Bengkel Sains Pengaturcaraan \(ATUR03 2003 6] Byrne P. and Lyons, G..  The Effect of Student Attributes on Success in Programming., ACM SIGSE Bulletin of the Proceedings of the 6th Annual Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education 33\(3 7] Norwawi, N.M., Hibadullah, C.F., and Osman, J. \(2005 Affecting Performance in Introductory Programming. [CDROM]. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Qualitative Sciences and Its Applications \(ICOQSIA 8] Bennedsen, J. and Caspersen, M.E. \(2005 Potential Success Factors for an Introductory Model-Driven Programming Course. In Proceedings of International Conference on Education Research \(ICER05 9] Weinberg, G. M. The psychology of computer programming \(silver anniversary edition 10] Hibadullah, C.F., and Norwawi, M.N. \(2007 students performance in programming course using decision tree . The Fifth International Conference on Information Technology in Asia Kuching, pp 315-317, 2007 11] Mohamad Farhan Mohamad Mohsin, Norita Md. Norwawi, Mohd Fairuz Zaiyyadi, Mohd Helmy Abd. Wahab. Pattern Extraction for Programming Performance Evaluation Using Directed Apriori. In Proceeding of the 2nd International Conference on Computing Informatics \(ICOCI'09 12] Bakar, A.A.\(2005 classification modeling for data mining, PHd Thesis. Universiti Putra Malaysia 13] Z. Pawlak, "Rough sets and data analysis," in Fuzzy Systems Symposium, 1996. 'Soft Computing in Intelligent Systems and Information Processing'., Proceedings of the 1996 Asian, 1996, pp. 1  6 14] Muhmaat Said, M. Studi Smart. Kuala Lumpur :Percetakan Cergas 2004 15] Calitz, A.P., Watson, M.B. and de Kock, G de V.  Identification and Selection of Successful Future IT Personnel in a Changing 


Technological and Business Environment. In Proceedings of the 1997 ACM SIGCPR Conference on Computer Personnel Research, April California, USA. pp 31-35, 1997 16] Haliburton, W., Thweat, M. and Wahl, N.J.  Gender Differences in Persdonality Components of Computer Science Students: A test of Hollands Congruence Hypothesis.   In Proceedings of the 1997 ACM SIGSCE 98, Atlanta, USA. pp 77-81. 1994 17] Lech Polkowski, Shusaku Tsumoto, Tsau Y. Lin. Rough set methods and applications: new developments in knowledge discovery in information systems. Springer, 2000 18] Nicola, J.P. and Warren, A.H. Hollands Theory of Personality and Occupation in Road Safety Context. Monash University Accident Reseacrh Centre. [Access date: 22 June 2010 http://www.monash.edu.au/muarc/reports/muarc145.pdf   


Mining, New York City, New York, USA, Aug. 1998, pp 8086 17] Y. Blanco-Fernandez, J. J. P. Arias, A. Gil-Solla, M. R Cabrer, M. L. Nores, J. G. Duque, A. F. Vilas, R. P. D Redondo, and J. B. Munoz, A flexible semantic inference methodology to reason about user preferences in knowledgebased recommender systems, Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 21 no. 4, pp. 305320, 2008 18] S. E. Middleton, H. Alani, N. R. Shadbolt, and D. C. D Roure, Exploiting synergy between ontologies and recommender systems, in Semantic Web Workshop 2002 At the Eleventh International World Wide Web Conference, 2002 19] M. Zanker and M. Jessenitschnig, Case-studies on exploiting explicit customer requirements in recommender systems User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, vol. 19, no 1-2, pp. 133166, 2009 20] N. Ducheneaut, K. Partridge, Q. Huang, B. Price, M. Roberts E. H. Chi, V. Bellotti, and B. Begole, Collaborative filtering is not enough? experiments with a mixed-model recommender for leisure activities, in Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on User Modeling, Adaptation, and Personalization \(UMAP 21] H. Nguyen and P. Haddawy, The decision-theoretic interactive video advisor, in Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence \(UAI 494501 22] B. Mobasher, Data mining for web personalization, in The Adaptive Web, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science P. Brusilovsky, A. Kobsa, and W. Nejdl, Eds. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2007, vol. 4321, ch. 3, pp. 90135 23] T. R. Gruber, A translation approach to portable ontology specifications, Knowl. Acquis., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 199220 1993 24] N. Tintarev and J. Masthoff, The effectiveness of personalized movie explanations: An experiment using commercial meta-data, in Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems AH 25] R. Albertoni and M. D. Martino, Asymmetric and contextdependent semantic similarity among ontology instances Journal on Data Semantics, vol. 10, pp. 130, 2008 26] X. Jin and B. Mobasher, Using semantic similarity to 


enhance item-based collaborative filtering, in 2nd IASTED International Conference on Information and Knowledge Sharing, Scottsdale, Arizona, 2003 476 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


Basi Association Rles Basi c  Association R u les Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of events Ol dib t f ilt t O n l y d escr ib e se t s o f s i mu lt aneous even t s Cannot describe patterns that iterate over time e g  itemset a  0  b  0  g    Eg If you sense higher data rates on the downlink than normal AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 20 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


