 422        Research on derivative events for Chines e natural disasters based on the Apriori improved model  WANG  Bin-lin 1 CHU  Yi - Ran 1 WANG Shuang 2 SUN Ying 1 1Harbin Engineering University P.R.China,150001 2 Northwestern Polytechnical University P.R.China,710072 
 Abstract: The article based on the Apriori improved model, combined with the related theory of natural disasters derivative events, analyzes the information data of the natural disaster in the last three years in China, and finally confirms 10 representative derivative events of natural disasters. Through analyzing and sorting, this paper checks the results based on minimum support and minimum confidence and ultimately determines the relationship between 
different derivative events. By discussing the items that rank ahead with the high confidence in associated results of the 2-items, 3-items and 4-items, respectively it could be confirmed that th e correctness of association results, and reflected the e fficiency of the Apriori improved algorithm. Therefor e, individuals can use the results to forecast the possibility of related derivative events after natural disast ers occurring, with the ultimate goal of improving the prediction system  Keywords: Apriori, natural disasters, derivative 
events, association rules   1 Introduction   Natural disasters derivative event refers to related crisis of a wide range of social or cultural environment in a secondary disaster caused by sudden natural disasters, including transport communications and the living conditions of the calamity victims, etc. The main manifestation is threats to public life destruction of normal production and daily life, heavy losses the economy suffered, social unrest and confusion, etc. At present the prevention and mitigation work for disasters turns gradually from passive response into a trend of proactive prevention, natural disasters derivative 
events crisis warning is on the basis of analysis of the historical data, through the data mining technology, we could find useful information from the mass of data, for providing the scientific basis and effective solution in dealing with similar derivative events correctly in the furthe r. However the early warning of the natural disasters derivative events only stay at the pr eliminary stage, because of the unpredictability of natural disasters, there is no real sense of perfect disaster prevention policies and methods, most disaster prevention model that based on the related theory of public crisis management are lack of practicality and maneuverability 1 
This article based on the Apriori improved model 2  analyzes the related data of 10 types of natural disasters that have significant impact on Chinese people's livelihood in the past three years, by mining and judging the association relationship of individual derivative event, to predict the probability of the occurrence of derivative event under natural disasters, in order to make predictions and early warnings for natural disa sters derivative events  2 Apriori Model  2.1  Introduction of Apriori Algorithm    Apriori algorithm is a simple but very useful data mining algorithms of association rules proposed by 
Agrawal, Imielinski and Swami 3-4 In principle it is the simplification of conditional probability, joint probability method, and pay attention to the number of scanning the database and efficiency improvements in the process, which makes the algorithm more practical. The association rule of data is a kind of important existence and knowledge which can be found in the database. If there is some potential regularity between two or more attribute values, we could call these properties are interconnected. Association can be divided into simple association, temporal association and causal association. The purpose of association analysis is to identify the hidden relationship among the database 
Usually we do not know the correlation functions of the data in the database, even we know them, the results maybe uncertain, so rules generated with a confidence level from associated analysis 5 Mining according to the association rule could find plenty interesting association or the relevant contact between items in a data set, therefore, we defined for the associated rule sets as follows 2011 China located International Conference on Information Systems for C\risis Response and Management 978-1-4577-0368-3/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE November 25-27, 2011 


 423  Definition 1 \(Association Rules\ppose 12 i i i m I  is the collection of m different projects, given a transaction database 12 T T T m D where each transaction T i  is a set of items I  i TI Association rules is a form of inherent like XY in which X I  YI and XY  Definition 2 \(Support\e  s transactions in the database D contain X then define the associated rules support of items set X is  s  recorded as support X   s  Definition 3 \(Confidence\f there are transactions in the database D contains X and Y at the same time, then define specific value of the two support values as the confidence of associated rules XY  recorded as    confidence X Y support X Y support X  If we do not consider the support and confidence of association rules, there will be countless of association rules in database. In fact, people are interested only in association rules which meet a certain degree of support and confidence, while the rules meeting the minimum support \(minsup\nd minimum confidence \(minconf\alled strong rules. Therefore, in order to mining meaningful association rules, we need to be given two thresholds: minimum support and minimum confidence. The former is the minimum level the items must satisfied for the association rule stipulated by the user, which expressed the lowest degree of a group of items need to satisfy in the statistical significance; The latter is the minimum confidence, which reflects the minimum reliability of association rules 6   2.2  The Implementation Procedure of Apriori Algorithm 1  Scanning the database D  to calculate all the support values of 1-item set, and get the collection 1 L consisting of the frequent 1 \226 item set which meet the minimum support  s  setting in the program 2  Using frequent k-1 item sets 1 L k  combined with each other, to expand to the k  items set k C  If 1  k PQ L   1 2 k-2 k-1  Ppppp  1 2 k-2 k-1  Qqqqq in which 11 ik    ii p q and when 1 ik  11 kk p q  then 12 2 1 1      kkk PQ pp p p q  are elements of the collection of the k C set 3  When one 1 k subset of k C is not a member of 1 L k then the frequent set cannot be frequent we can remove it from k C  4  Scanning database D and calculating the support degree of each set in k C Removing the items with the low support which do not meet  s from k C in order to form set k L which  constitute from frequent k-sets 5  By iteration, repeating th 4 until it cannot produce new set of frequent items 6  Calculating the confidence values  2.3 The Improved Apriori Algorithm  Apriori uses an iterative method with searching by layer  i item sets are used to search for 1 i item set. Firstly, we should identify a collection of 1\226item set, recorded as 1 L  1 L is used to seek the collection 2 L of frequent 2-item sets which is used to seek 3 L and so on, until it cannot find frequent k-item sets. Finding out each i L  requires scanning the database once. And it needs two processes of connection and pruning to find out i L by 1 i L The algorithm can be understood and achieved easily, and can be used to mining various kinds of rules. However, it will generate a lot of frequent item sets in data mining process, which will not only affect the efficiency of mining seriously but also take up a lot of memory space. Therefore the method is not appropriate for the database with large volumes of data, such as the study of natural disasters derivative events in China. The following algorithm is under the prerequisite of not creating a k C set but generating fre quent item sets, and reduce the data table that to be found gradually Specific algorithms are showed as follows Suppose there is an initial item set L which contains 1 k Z kt transactions number recorded as TID\(1~t\ided minsup  a that is, the number of transactions is not less than b  ba t s the element number of TID 


 424  1  Rebuild the database, search the transaction number which contains 1 Z to produce 1 U  transaction number which contains 2 Z to produce 2 U and so on 2  Create a new database, which contains 1   n UU U removed items that less than b in U  to simplify the database  3  Calculate 12 UU remove the item with the number of intersection less than b, if the number is more than b then store it as the new transaction set. Therefore we can get  13 UU 14 UU  205 23 UU 205 1 nn UU   4  Computing and storing item sets ij TT  which correspond to the transaction sets as a new set of items 5  Storing 2 L for the frequent 2-item sets. In which items sets are 1   n TCD T T  transactions numbers are 1   n TID u u  6  Repeat the results of \(3\ and \(4\ove the duplicate transaction sets and item sets. And get frequent 3- item set, and 4-item set\205 7  Until getting frequent k-item sets 8  Calculate the confidence, that is the probability of occurrence \(if the pr emise events happened the probability of occurrence of the other derivative events  3 Empirical Study  The data of empirical study are collected from several Chinese large websites, including Sina, Sohu Huanqiu and People net. The data are information about 10 types natural disasters affecting Chinese people\222s livelihood in recent three years \(totally 140695 in Table 1\ analyzing the derivative events caused by the natural disasters and combining the kinds of sudden public crises \(for instance lifeline engineering accidents\this paper eventually lists ten representative affairs caused by natural disasters \(in Table 2\ased on the related principles of SVM classifier, this paper has classified the data to ascertain the support level of different kinds of events caused by natural disasters, therefore, we can find the relationship between them  Table 1 10 Types of Natural Disasters Number Natural Disasters Total of records 1 Floods 18654 2 Drought 29480 3 Earthquake 36032 4 Blizzard 19685 5 Debris flow 7521 6 Landslide 3464 7 forest fire 2463 8 Typhoon 20465 9 Damage by disease and insect 1367 10 Sea ice 1564   Table 2 Natural Disasters Derivative Events  No. Derivative Events Details 1 Traffic Jam The traffic jams caused by disaster s, including the cracking of roads and bridges, tram damage and the collapsing of the tunnels in the cities or suburbs after the earthquake, or port damage caused by typhoon airport or related facilities damage  2 Shutdown of enterprises Shutdown of the factories or enterprises 3 Shutdown of school Shutdown of the schools or related education departments 4 Social chaos Small range of social chaos such as theft, steal and loot, leading to the rising rate of crime 5 Prices Rising The rapidly rising of the price of the necessities for life during a short time after the disasters 


 425  6 Materials Shortage The scarcity of the supplies includ ing professional materials for the disasters, necessities for life and producer goods 7 Shortage of water and power supply Water or power supply system damage caused by disasters, leading to the shortage of water and power for victims 8 Environment pollution The environment pollution such as water pollution, air pollution, etc and the radioactive toxic substances massive leak caused by the nuclear power station or chemical plant damage 9 Plague epidemic The group epidemic disease or an imal epidemic plague after the disasters 10 Communication Interruption The interruptions of Internet, phone or other basic communication facilities transmission caused by the disasters  To mining the association rules, the improved Apriori algorithm is applied into the data set of derivative events natural disasters. We should specify the initial conditions first, including the minimum support and minimum confidence in association rules. The paper sets the minimum support in association rules of algorithm for 10 and the minimum confidence in the association rules of algorithm is set for 40%. This is because the data set of derivative events caused by natural disasters is an extremely discrete data set, therefore, if the minimum support and confidence are set too high, it might appear some errors such as missing the association rules, or the results of association rules with a low practical value. Through the experiment the author finally obtained the study results, which are shown in Table 3  Table 3 Results of Association Rules Results of Results of Association Rules Total 2-Items Association Rules 205692 3-Items Association Rules 89635 4-Items Association Rules 13289  After arranging the results obtained from the study, we will explain the 2-items, 3-items and 4-items which are ranking higher than the others in them, respectively. Through the following analysis we can clearly find out the derivative events are closely related to each other in association. A derivative event not only becomes the premise of the other, but also almost happens at the same time with it, so they take on obvious co-occurrence. We can basically predict one derivative event through another  3.1  2-Item Association Rules 1  Prices Rising and Materials Shortage The general microeconomics theory holds the idea that the demand is the decreasing function of prices however, the relationship between them may change into an increasing function, because the demand for the materials may be influenced by victims\222 predictions of the imbalance between supply and demand and their panic. This theory fully explains the relationship between the two events, price rising and material shortage, which are caused by the natural disasters. After the sudden natural disaster people always exaggerate the consequences of it in psychologically, which may stimulate a short and rapid growth in the demand of public basic supplies At the same time, natural disasters may affect the related materials production capacity in the disaster area and its surroundings. The disasters may cause some strategic behaviors. For example, some material supplication and logistics service enterprises hoard the mate rials. The disasters may even cause the transportation and the capability and cost of logistics network service dynamically and uncertainly. These bad effects will cause the imbalance in the demand and supply of living materials. Meanwhile, the government should form a mechanism about price after the natural disasters and it must put the interactive process of consumers enterprise, and the government behaved in the environment of natural disasters into consideration In a sense, post-disaster prices forming process is much more of the game between stakeholders, and is not determined by the balance between supply and demand. The influencing factors not only include the consumer\222s basic needs, disaster needs and even panic needs of goods, but also include the horizontal competition mechanism among different enterprises and the transmission in material supplication chain At the same time, the price intervention policy of the 


 426  government, the amount of merchandise reserve and proper guidance after the di saster play a decisive role in the formation prices aftermath 2\Traffic Jam and Communication Interruption  In all kinds of events caused by natural disasters communication interruption is an obvious one which happens a lot. For example, in early months of 2008, the people \(more than 10 provinces in the south of China\ndu red the snow and freezing weather for four times. The coldness had a bad influence on the power and transportation system and local people\222s daily lives. The resistant capability of communication system toward disasters has direct impact s on the relief work after disasters. Power supply system damaged in the earthquake cause failures in the signal transmission Except this situation, the whole communication system cannot be operated when the communication facilities, such as signal tower, are destroyed by the disasters. Then it is hard to pass the circumstances of the disasters to the rescue headquarters in time Consequently, the rescue cannot be carried out in the early period of the disaster which means people cannot control the situation before the following bad effects. For example, after the Wenchuan Earthquake happened in Sichuan Province in China, the disaster area cannot get in touch with the outside for 20 hours, which greatly increases the difficulty of the rescue. Meanwhile, destroys brought by the disaster can have a bad influence on the transportation. For example, the bridge collapses after the earthquake or frozen road caused by the blizzard can lead to the occurrence of traffic jams, which will delay the aid to the disaster area. Under the circumstance of losing the ensuring communications, the aid cannot arrive in the disaster areas in time. So people outside cannot have a deeper understanding of the situation which lead to the aid much more difficult. Therefore the traffic jam and communication interruption always coexist after the disaster. Undoubtedly, there is a subtle connection relationship between them  3.2  3-Item Association Rules In the experimental results of the 3-item association rules, the top of the confidence is the relationship between the traffic jams, water and power supply shortage and communication interruption. As the lifeline of urban and ru ral areas, these three guarantee with each other, and depend on each other In the analysis above, it has emphatically expounded the relationship between traffic jams and communication interruption. Meanwhile, when the electric power system is damaged in the natural disaster, the harms it brought about are not only the communication interruption, which increases the difficulty in the aid, but also the bad influence on the life qualities of the victims. The power supply shortage leads directly to decline of the water supply There is no doubt that pure water is very important in the disaster area because the clean water can guarantee lives, and meanwhile, it plays a key role in reducing the occurrence of plague in disaster areas. At the same time, the power supply shortage could also affect the transportation industry, which relies on the power. In January 2008, in wide range of south China, several heavy snows caused many bad consequences. The water and power supply in Chenzhou, a city in Hunan province, had to be cut because the ice and snow had broken the cable. This made a bad influence on the normal lives of citizens Guizhou province is the mo st serious disaster area in which the electricity ne t broke and the electrical towers collapsed one by another. Blackout in the many cities had caused the mobile communication interruption, the fixed communication also was affected. In addition, the icy roads made the rescue become much harder. The transportation in two railways, Beijing-Guangdong and Shanghai-Kunming, had been interfered because of the blackout. Hence, the situ ations it appeared after the disaster were the power supply system failure water supply shortage, and communication interruption, which meant the information in the disaster area cannot be passed, even though the information can be conveyed, the rescue can be difficult because of the bad road conditions  3.3  4-Item of Association Rules According to the results of the 4-item of association rules, the paper will select the events about traffic jam, water and power supply shortage price rising and materials lack to explain. Firstly, it is clear that, when the natural disasters happen, the relevant events must contain the crisis in traffic, not only the land or waterway traffic, but even the aviation transportation. Once the obstruction happens in the traffic, it will directly leads to the non-convenience in transporting the goods, which will cause the price rising then. Meanwhile, due to destructions on the electricity system caused by the disaster, the water and power supply shortage directly leads to the panic among citizens. The consequence of it is some of the citizens in the disaster areas start to hold back living materials. It is worthy to notice that the crops in the affected areas are also under the influence to a great degree. The prices in the disaster area s have the trend to rise under the double pressures. Take the snow disaster happened in the early months of 2008 as an example as well. The prices of Chinese cabbage, radish carrot and other vegetables increased 50% ~ 70 after the heavy snow than before. The prices of some 


 427  special species of vegetables had increased 100% or so. The volatility in people\222s livelihood is most likely to lead to social unrest. Therefore, we absolutely cannot ignore the relationship between the several related events and messages they reveal to us  4. Enlightenment   Different governments ar e actively working with the emergency management plans based on the situation of their own countries because the natural disasters happened frequently in recent years Chinese government also has its own disaster warning and forecasting sy stem, mainly including the monitoring and prediction systems of meteorological disasters, early warning system of earthquakes, floods monitoring and prediction system for rivers, fire warn ing system for forests and plains, insects telemetry system for crops and forests marine environment and disaster monitoring system and the geological disaster warning and forecasting system. Depending on these systems, the government seeks to control the damages of natural disasters in a small range. The occurrence of derivative events is the consequence resulted by the co-function of kinds of elements. On the whole, the causes of the events can be divided into people's unsafe behaviors, the unsafe state of objects and the bad stimulation of environment. From the aspect of logic, the causes can be divided into direct and indirect ones. These causes influence each other mutually and interact with each other in the system Under the certain conditions, these factors may change in a sudden, cause damages and have bad influence in the society Through the survey and analysis, exploring the casual relationship in the event, finding the direct indirect and main cause of the incident play a positive role in preventing the occurrence of these derivative events. And we need to have a clear idea that a system without any accident within a long time is not necessarily safe, because it might have the hidden danger of accident. This kind of system would be in an unstable state before the accident happens. And in order to achieve the system\222s stability, the elements in th e system are in a constant change, and a trigger factor\222s appearance will lead to the accident. Therefore, ba sed on these results, with investigating the related derivative events systematically, the more effective emergency plan suggestion should be put forward. The government needs to consider the joint effects caused by the derivative accidents after the natural disaster. The government could predict other related events which is most likely happen, and try to put forward a more effective emergency plan with comprehensive value avoiding a single solution to one matter. It can not only help the government work on the rescue in the disaster areas effectively and smoothly, but also play a crucial role in stabilizing the society and reducing the negative effects 5. Conclusion  This paper introduces the improved Apriori algorithm and its combination with the derivative events of natural disasters. The empirical study uses informative data of 10 types of natural disasters which have had great influence on China within the last three years. It has been proved the accuracy of the results through the related theory and factual proofs. Based on the data, this paper obtained the associations between the derivative events. By observing and analyzing th e events on the whole this paper concludes several related derivative events caused by the disasters, which have universal laws and high potentiality. Therefore, this paper has guidance in the proposal of government emergency plans in different areas  References   ia ng G u a n C h i n a In ci d ent Re port  M Chi n a  Morden Economics Publishing House. 2009 2 an Ch en g, Gu o x i n g Ren, Li bi n Du  Based on  Apriori Model the Marine Disaster Warning Data Mining Technology [J an do ng Sci e n c e 2009-4\(22  u n X u  A l gorit hm and A ppl ica ti on of D ata Mining[M i n g Un i v ersi t y Press, 20 07 1 94 1 97   io ng Zh o u  W e i D o ng  The A p p li cat i on of Apriori Model in Electric Power Enterprise Decision Support l ectr i c Pow er Cons truc tio n 20 07 2 8  12\92-94  n p in g D u  A study o n  T ourism Em er gency  Association Rules Mining Algorithms[D  Beij in g University of Posts and Telecommunications 2009.1   ka nt R.Agrawal M i ni ng Quan ti ta tiv e Association Rules in Large Relational Tabl Proc.1996 ACM SIGMOD Int\2221 Conf. Very Large Dat  ka nt R.Agrawal M i ni ng Quan ti ta tiv e Association Rules in Large Relational Tabl Proc.1996 ACM SIGMOD Int\2221 Conf. Very Large Databas trea l C an ada s n.]. 19 9 6 112  


dataset, the number of distinct items is 1000, and the number of sequences is 10000. C10 represents the average number of transactions of each customer is 10 and T1 means that each transaction contains only one item. The simulations are implemented in C++ and all the experiments are performed in an Intel Pentium 3.20GHz with 3GB of memory, running Windows 7 B. Efficiency Analysis In the first experiment, we test the execution time of scalability with support threshold are shown in Fig. 5.The result show that when the support threshold is high, few sequential patterns are mined and the length of patterns is short Comparatively, as the support threshold decreases, there are Subroutine Modify_PrefixSpan\(a, l, Sa a: a sequential pattern l: the length of a Sa: the a-projected DB Method 1. s 2.  If \(l<2 3.  {  Scan Sa 4.     Find the set aF of frequent items 5.     For each frequent item ab F?  do 6.        s s ab 7.     For each a s? ?  do 8.     {  Construct a-projected DB Sa 9.        Modify_PrefixSpan\(a, l+1, Sa 10.     } // end for 11.  } // end if 12. Else 13.  { Scan Sa 14.     Find the set aF  of frequent items 15.     Find the set FI of frequent itemsets A 16.     For each frequent item ab F?  do 17.     {   s s ab 18.        [ ]SP s 19.     } // end for 20.     For each a s? ?  do 21.     {  Construct a-projected DB Sa 22.        Modify_PrefixSpan\(a, l+1, Sa 23.     } // end for 24.     For each frequent itemset A FI 


25.     {  if\( conf 26.        [ ]SAR aA 27.     } // end for 28. }// end else 276 Figure 3. An example of SAR algorithm Figure 4. The final results of SAR algorithm Sequence_id Sequence 1 a b c d f e 2 a d e b c 3 e a b d c 4 a c b f e Frequent 1-sequence a:4 b:4 c:4 d:3 e:4 f:2 A sequence database a-projected DB 1 b c d f e 2 d e b c 3 b d c 4 c b f e b-projected DB 1 c d f e 2 c 3 d c 4 f e f-projected DB 1 e 4 e    Frequent 2-sequence a b>:4 a c>:4 a d>:3 a e>:3 a f>:2 


Frequent 2-sequence b c>:3 b d>:2 b e>:2 b f>:2    a b>-projected DB 1 c d f e 2 c 3 d c 4 f e a c>-projected DB 1 d f e 4 b f e    a f>-projected DB 1 e 4 e Frequent 3-sequence a b c>:3 a b d>:2 a b f>:2 a b e>:2 Frequent 2-itemset of prefix <a b c d}:2 e f}:2    a b c>-projected DB 1 d f e a b d>-projected DB 1 f e 3 c a b f>-projected DB 1 e 4 e 


Frequent 4sequence a b f e>:2 SP a b>:4 a c>:4 a d>:3 a e>:3 a f>:2 a b c>:3 a b d>:2 a b f>:2 a b e>:2 a b f e>:2 a c f>:2 a c e>:2 a c f e>:2    compare SAR[ ] <a b> ?{c d}: 2 a b> ?{e f}:2 a c> ?{e f}:2 output a b> ?{c d}: 2 277 many sequential patterns and the length of patterns is long Therefore, the execution time increases as the support threshold is decreased because of a large increase in the number of sequential patterns in the result. The number of sequential association rules generated in different support thresholds is shown in Fig. 6. When min_sup is 0.5%, few sequential association rules are mined. This is because that there are many sequential patterns as support threshold is low. Therefore, only longer sequences can satisfy the properties of sequential association rules in a low min_sup. As support threshold increases from 0.5% to 1.5%, the number of sequential association rules increase. This is because that few sequential patterns are mined and the length of patterns is short. However according to the property of apriori, the support of short length of sequences is larger than that of long length of sequences. As a result, the probability of a short sequential pattern to form a 


sequential association rule is higher than that of a long sequential pattern. As the support threshold is between 1.5 and 3%, the number of sequential association rules decreased The main reason for the decrease is that the minimum support is high enough, the restriction of sequential association rules become more tightly In summary, the experimental results described above demonstrate that our SAR algorithm offers the scalability in efficiency and reports sequential association rules with different support thresholds Figure 5. Execution time of our algorithm with different min_sup Figure 6. Number of sequential association rules V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In this paper, a new concept of sequential association rules is introduced. Mining sequential association rules provide valuable knowledge which cannot get from sequential patterns mining and it can be applied in many applications, such as disease analysis and market decision. Moreover, SAR algorithm is proposed for mining sequential association rules The experiments show that the proposed algorithm offers execution time of scalability with support threshold and reports sequential association rules There remain some problems that are worth studying in the future. First, investigating more efficient algorithms to improve the scalability of mining sequential association rules is important. Furthermore, extending to find negative sequential association rules will also be worthwhile REFERENCES 1] J. Ayres, J. Gehrke, T. Yiu, and J. Flannick, Sequential Pattern Mining using a Bitmap Representation, In Proc. 2002 ACM Int. Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(SIGKDD02 Alberta, Canada, July 2002, pp. 429-435 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, Mining sequential patterns, In Proc. 1995 Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE95 3-14 3] J. Han, J. Pei, B. Mortazavi-Asl, Q. Chen, U. Dayal, and M. C. Hsu FreeSpan: Frequent Pattern-Projected Sequential Pattern Mining, In Proc. 2000 Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining SIGKDD00 4] J. Pei, J. Han, H. Pinto, Q. Chen, U.Dayal, and M. C. Hsu, PrefixSpan Mining Sequential Patterns Efficiently by Prefix-Projected Pattern Growth, In Proc. 2001 IEEE Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE01 


Heidelberg, Germany, Apr. 2001, pp. 215-224 5] J. Pei, J. Han, and W. Wang, Constraint-based sequential pattern mining: the patter-growth methods, Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, Vol. 28, April 2007, pp. 133-160 6] M. J. Zaki, SPADE: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Sequences, Machine Learning Journal, Vol. 42 No.1-2, 2001, pp. 3160 278 


Judging by common sense, the High threshold is defined as follows: for sections with one lane , if there exist 2 or more cars in 10 meters, then it is a High volume situation. On the other hand, the middle threshold is defined as follows: for sections with one lane, if there exist more than 1, and less than 2 cars in 10 meters, it is a Middle volume situation. The remains will be discretized to Low traffic volume situation The cars are randomly generated based on the values of the pre-defined OD\(OringinJDestination for every OD pair is changing during the execution as shown in Fig.6 lY l Jl .? 15 co ? 10 Xl 5 Q O .r:: 0 o 50 100  150 T:in e 4n ilutes Fig. 6. Change of OriginiDestination values in simulations B. Simulation Result The parameter setting of the proposed data mining during the evolution is shown in Table IV. The total number of rules stored in the rule pool is shown in Fig.7. Each round has the same number of generations of 50 and the chosen set size for AAM is 100[14 TABLE IV PARAMETER SETTING FOR EVOLUTION Items Values Number of judgment nodes 100 Number of processing nodes 10 N umber of attributes 500 Number of consequents 1500 Number of time points 120 Minimum confidence value 0.9 Minimum chi-squared value 6.63 Minimum support value 0.05 40000 Ul 35000 !Il " 30000 '" .... "0 25000 20000 ? '" 15000 j9 10000 0 5000 E 


r r  r r l o 100 200 300 400 500 ROlU1ds Fig. 7. Total number of rules extracted In order to check the effectiveness of the extracted rules we tested the classification accuracy of the proposed method using the classifier with competition The average prediction accuracy is shown in Table V. The accuracy is defined in the following: if the traffic prediction result of the section at time t is "Low" and the real traffic of this section at time t is exactly "Low", then the accuracy is 100%. The low/middle/high accuracy means the accuracy when the real traffic is low/middle/high, respectively Table V shows that the method with Accuracy Validation can improve the overall accuracy than the method without Accuracy Validation. The Middle volume of the traffic network can not be predicted accurately because the middle situations do not appear frequently enough to generate an enough number of association rules TABLE V AVERAGE PREDICTION ACCURACY FOR TESTING DATABASE Method Prediction Accuracy Overall Low Middle High With Accuracy Validation 84.82 85.84 57.71 89.71 Without Accuracy Validation 82.64 83.57 56.57 87.13 Longer step prediction is explored by studying the 2-step, 3step and 4-step prediction, where n-step means the prediction of the traffic volume at n time points later. It's results are shown in Fig. 8. It is shown from Fig.8 that the prediction accuracy decreases as the number of prediction step increases but the increase of the number of steps does not affect the overall accuracy so much, so the proposed method can do relative stable prediction even if the number of prediction steps Increases The ratio of the usable rules to the total number of rules in each prediction step is shown in Fig.9, which describes that 


how the number of the usable rules for prediction decreases by the increase of the prediction steps, considering the condition that the time delay between the antecedent part and consequent part should be bigger or equal to the prediction step. In another word, as the prediction step increases, the number of the usable rules decreases 86 if G 84 82 80 f-------?-""":__---------1 0:: 78 r-------------">.-======---1 :? 76 -------------------j 74 72 4 n-6tep I?w ihAcCUlacyValiiarnn -w ihoutAcCUlacyValiiarnn I Fig. 8. Overall accuracy for 2-step, 3-step and 4-step prediction The proposed method cannot extract all the rules meeting the given definition of importance since it uses the fixed 2254 120 II 100 80 "'<Ie o 60 ?? ? 0: 40 20 0 N Step Fig. 9. Average percentage of usable rules for each prediction step number of rules for each class of the consequent attributes but the result shows that the ability to extract important rules is sufficient enough for the purposes. The mechanism of Accuracy Validation shows more stable performances as shown in Fig. 8 V. CONCLUSION In this paper, an association rule mining method using GNP with Accuracy Validation mechanism has been proposed. It is clarified from simulations that the proposed method can extract important time-related association rules for each class of the consequent attributes efficiently. What's more important is that these rules can be used to decide to which class the time related data belong accurately. From simulations, we have also 


found that the proposed method can be used in traffic volume prediction problems. Further improvements of the proposed method is studied in terms of applying the proposed method to real world navigation systems REFERENCES I Vehicle Routing and Congestion Predictions for Real-time Driver Guid ance, Transportation Research Records, 1408, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C., pp. 66-74, 1993 2 October 17, 1989 3 network predictions, In Proc. of the Conference of Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, Sherbrooke, Quebec, June, pp. 331-339, 1997 4 dynamic traffic networks with joint route and departure time choice. In Proc. of the 84th Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board Washington, DC., 2005 5 Springer, 2002 6 Related Sequential Association Rule Mining and Traffic Prediction", In Proc. of the IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation 2009, 2009/5 7 gorithm: Genetic Network Programming\(GNP Reinforcement Learning", Evolutionary Computation, MIT press, Vol. IS No.3, pp.369-398, 2007 8 Multiagent Models Based on Symbiosis", IEEE Trans. on Syst., Man and Cybernetics - Part B -, Vol.36, No.1, pp.179-193, 2006 9 Deck Elevator Group Supervisory Control System Using Genetic Network Programming, IEEE Trans. on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, Part C, Vol 38, No. 4, pp. 535-550, 200817 10 University of Michigan Press, 1975 11] D. E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithm in search, optimization and machine learning, Addison -Wesley, 1989 12 means of natural selection, Cambridge, Mass., MIT Press, 1992 13 Programs, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1994 


14 Association Rules Mining with Attribute Accumulation Mechanism and its Application to Traffic Prediction", Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics, Vol. 12, No. 5, pp. 467-478 200817 15 Information and Communication System", Vehicle Navigation and Infor mation Systems Conference, 1993 2255 


intend to expand this work to involve some interesting features in each stage prediction and evaluate it on many datasets   REFERENCES  1] F. Ricardo, N. Ana, M. Paula, B. Gleidson, R. Fabiano ODE: Ontology-based software Development Environment, Proceedings of the IX Argentine Congress on Computer Science, pp. 1124-1135, 2003 2] E. Mendes, B. A. Kitchenham. Further comparison of cross-company and within-company effort estimation models for Web applications. In: Proc. 10th IEEE International Software Metrics Symposium, Chicago USA, pp.348-357, 2004 3] B. Boehm, R. Valerdi. Achievements and Challenges in Software Resource Estimation, Proceedings of ICSE 06 Shanghai, China, pp. 74-83,  2006 4] K. Molokken, M. Jorgensen. A review of software surveys on software effort estimation, Proceedings of International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering \(ISESE 2003 5] M. Jorgensen, K. Molokken-Ostvold. How large are software cost overruns? A review of the 1994 CHAOS report, Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48 issue 4. PP. 297-301, 2006 6] X. Huanga, D. Hob, J. Rena, L. F. Capretz. Improving the COCOMO model using a neuro-Fuzzy approach Applied Soft Computing, Vol.7, issue 1, pp. 29-40, 2007 7] L. Briand, T. Langley, I. Wieczorek. A replicated assessment and comparison of common software cost modeling techniques, Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on Software Engineering, 2000 8] S.-J Huang, N. H. Chiu. Optimization of analogy weights by genetic algorithm for software effort estimation Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48, issue 11 pp. 1034-1045, 2006 9] Z. Xu, T. M. Khoshgoftaar. Identification of Fuzzy models of software cost estimation, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Vol. 145, issue 1, pp. 141-163, 2004 10] R. Pressman. Software Engineering: practitioner 


approaches, McGraw Hill, London, 2004 11] M. Boraso, C. Montangero, H. Sedhi. Software cost estimation: an experimental study of model performance Universita di Pisa, Italy, 1996 12] Y. Wang, Q. Song, J. Shen., 2007. Grey Learning Based Software Stage-Effort Estimation. International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pp 1470-1475, 2007 13] S. G. MacDonell, M. J. Shepperd. Using prior-phase effort records for re-estimation during software projects Ninth International, Software Metrics Symposium, pp 73- 86, 2003 14] M .C Ohlsson, C. Wohlin. An Empirical Study of Effort Estimation during Project Execution, Sixth International Software Metrics Symposium \(METRICS'99 1999 15] N. H. Chiu,,S. J. Huang.  The adjusted analogy-based software effort estimation based on similarity distances Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 80, issue 4, pp 628-640, 2007 16] P. Sentas, L. Angelis, I. Stamelos, G.  Bleris. Software productivity and effort prediction with ordinal regression Information and Software Technology, Vol. 47, issue 1 pp. 17-29, 2005 17] E. Mendes, N. Mosley. Comparing effort prediction models for Web design and authoring using boxplots Australian Computer Science Communications,  Vol. 23 Issue 1, pp. 125-133, 2001 18] E. Mendes, N. Mosley, I. Watson. A comparison of casebased reasoning approaches, Proceedings of the 11th international conference on World Wide Web, pp. 272280, 2002 19] Q. Zhao, S. S. Bhowmick. Association Rule Mining: A Survey  http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/734613.html, 2003 20] S. Morisak, A. Monden, H. Tamada. An Extension of association rule mining for software engineering data repositories, Information Science Technical Report NAIST, 2006 21] Q. Song, M. Shepperd.  M. Cartwright, C. Mair. Software defect association mining and defect correction effort prediction, IEEE transaction on software engineering Vol. 32, No.2, pp. 69-82, 2006 


22] R. Agrawal, T. Amielinski, A. Swami. Mining association rule between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207-216, 1993 23] M-J. Huang, Y-L. Tsou, S-C. Lee.  Integrating Fuzzy data mining and Fuzzy artificial neural networks for discovering implicit knowledge, J. Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol.19 \(6 24] ISBSG International Software Benchmarking standards Group, Data repository release 10, Site http://www.isbsg.org, 2007 25] L. Zadeh. Toward a theory of Fuzzy information granulation and its centrality in human reasoning and Fuzzy logic. J. Fuzzy sets and Systems 90, pp. 111-127 1997 26] I. H. Witten, E. Frank. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques, 2nd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2005   256 


encountering a related term, i.e. IC\(c e intuition behind the use of the negative likelihood is that the more probable a term to appear, the less information it conveys. All these features show that Jiangs measure tends to be more general and more appropriate for evaluating nontaxonomically related terms. Indeed, a high score of the relatedness measures suggests a strong relationship between terms Nevertheless, all relatedness measures have limitations because they assume that all the semantic content of a particular term is modeled by semantic links in WordNet Consequently, in many situations, truly related terms obtain a low scores even though their belongings to a certain category of tags, e.g., jargon tags Additionally, when measuring the quality of an automatically knowledge acquisition results, the typical measures used in Information Retrieval are Recall, Precision and F-Measure. However, computing Recall and F-Measure requires the availability of a Gold Standard. Hence, we will only compute the Precision which speci?es to which extent the non-taxonomic relationships is extracted correctly. In this case, the ratio between the correctly extracted relations i.e., their relatedness measures is greater than or equal to a minimum threshold, and the whole number of extracted ones is computed. Thus, we have Precision Total correctly selected entities Total selected entities 12 http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-Similarity 13 A term refers to a tag subject or a tag object C. Evaluation of non-taxonomic relationships Only a percentage of the full set of non-taxonomic relationships \(89 is caused by the presence of non standard terms which are not contained in WordNet and, in consequence, cannot be evaluated using WordNet-based relatedness measures. Fig. 5 depicts the evaluation results of the extracted non-taxonomic relationships against their relatedness measures High relatedness score \(88 17% of the extracted relationships, as most of terms are strongly related with respect WordNet Null Scores were obtained for 5% of the extracted 


relationships. Analyzing this case in more detail, we have observed that the poor score is caused in many situations by the way in which Jiangs distance metric works. This latter completely depends on the distance between two terms based on the number of edges found on the path between them in WordNet. In consequence this measure returns a value that does not fully represent reality. For example, on the one hand, Jiangs distance metric returns a null value for the relationship between insurance and car, even though the ?rst is a commonly related to the second, i.e., car involved insurance Finally with a minimal Jiangs distance metric threshold, set to 46%, the computed precision of correctly extracted relationships candidates is equal to 68.8 An example of extracted non-taxonomic relationships is depicted in Table V where each relation describes the subject tag, e.g., tool, the predicate, e.g is being developed within, and the object tag, e.g mesh. Fig. 4 represent a fragment output of the extracted ontological structure where each concept de?nes a set of similar and synonym tags and labels, i.e., mentions has been, revealed, caused and is created with describe the predicates of the non-taxonomic relationships between terms Due to the limitations observed by the automatic evaluation procedure and the lack of gold standards containing non-taxonomic relationships, we have examined the extracted non-taxonomic relationships from a linguistic point 377 Top space      distance     quad great     groovy nifty caused address      addresses extension      quotation   reference  references extensions        referenz     source      refrence sources    rfrences    quotations research    search     searching searchs open-source     open_source 


opensource linux aim     design     designer      designers patern    project     patterns     projekte projects web+design    web_design webdesign internet       internetbs net          web network      networking networks      web discussion     news       password word      words community      communities is_created_with mentions revealed has_been Figure 4. A fragment output of the extracted ontological structure of view. This qualitative evaluation can bring some interesting insights about the kind of results one can expect Invalid relations are extracted: Even though a relation such as music cities skill is considered as correct one since tag subject, tag object and predicate are correctly extracted. From a semantic point of view, this relation has no meaning. Hence, a higher precision is expected Figure 5. Summary of non-taxonomic evaluation measure Table V EXAMPLES OF EXTRACTED NON TAXONOMIC RELATIONSHIPS Subject Predicate Object search has been reference reference mentions search tool is being developed within mesh security added encoding search revealed reference java provides library by performing the sense analysis on complete relations An ambiguity in the extracted predicates between terms is observed: Hence, same relations are redundant since they use a synonym predicates between terms, e.g java provides library and java yields library. Thus we expect that the redundancy removal within extracted relations will be of bene?t for the improvement of the 


obtained results VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK The extraction of non-taxonomic relationships from folksonomies is to the best of our knowledge is the least tackled task within ontology building from folksonomy. This is why there is a need of novel and general purpose approaches covering the full process of learning relationships. In this paper, we introduced a new approach called NONTAXFOLKS that starts by pre-processing tags aiming at getting a set of frequent tagsets corresponding to an agreed representation Then, they are used to retrieve related tags using external resources such as WordNet. Thanks to the particular structure of triadic concepts, it allows grouping semantically related tags by considering the semantic relatedness embodied in the different frequencies of co-occurences among users, resources and tags in the folksonomy. Thereafter we introduced an algorithm called NTREXTRACTION for extracting non-taxonomic relationships between pair of tags picked from the triadic concepts. In summary, our approach uses several well known techniques \(such as formal concept analysis or association rule discovering the social bookmaring environnement in order to propose a new way of extracting labeled non-taxonomic relationships between tags. Currently, we are investigating the following topic concerning the discovered predicates between two terms. Indeed, in order to avoid relationships redundancy and thus a redundancy in the builded ontology. One can try to classify them into prede?ned semantic classes, detect synonyms, inverses, etc. A standard classi?cation of verbs could be used for this purpose, adding additional information about the semantic content, e.g., senses, verb types, thematic roles, etc., of predicates relationships 378 REFERENCES 1] J. Pan, S. Taylor, and E. Thomas, Reducing ambiguity in tagging systems with folksonomy search expansion, in Proceedings of the 6th Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC2009 2] V. S. M. Kavalec, A. Maedche, Discovery of lexical entries for non-taxonomic relations in ontology learning, in Proceedings of the SOFSEM 2004, LNCS, vol. 2932, 2004, pp 249256 


3] L. Specia and E. Motta, Integrating folksonomies with the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 4th European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC 2007 Innsbruck, Austria, vol. 4519, June 2007, pp. 624639 4] P. Mika, Ontologies are us: A uni?ed model of social networks and semantics, in Proceedings of the 4th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC2005 3729, Galway, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 522536 5] P. Schmitz, Inducing ontology from ?ickr tags, in Proceedings of the Workshop on Collaborative Tagging \(WWW 2006 Edinburgh, Scotland, May 2006 6] M. Zhou, S. Bao, X. Wu, and Y. Yu, An unsupervised model for exploring hierarchical semantics from social annotations, in Proceedings of the 6th International Semantic Web Conference and 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference ISWC/ASWC2007 Korea, vol. 4825, November 2006, pp. 673686 7] C. Schmitz, A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, and G. Stumme, Mining association rules in folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 10th IFCS Conference \(IFCS 2006 2006, pp. 261270 8] A. Hotho, A. Maedche, S. Staab, and V. Zacharias, On knowledgeable unsupervised text mining, in Proceedings of Text Mining Workshop, Physica-Verlag, 2003, pp. 131152 9] A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme, Information retrieval in folksonomies: Search and ranking, in The Semantic Web: Research and Applications, vol. 4011 Springer, 2006, pp. 411426 10] F. Lehmann and R. Wille, A triadic approach to formal concept analysis, in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Conceptual Structures: Applications, Implementation and Theory. Springer-Verlag, 1995, pp. 3243 11] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G.Stumme Discovering shared conceptualizations in folksonomies Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, vol. 6, pp. 3853, 2008 12] A. Mathes, Folksonomies - cooperative classi?cation and communication through shared metadata, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Tech. Rep. LIS590CMC, December 2004 13] H. Lin, J. Davis, and Y. Zhou, An integrated approach 


to extracting ontological structures from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 6th European Semantic Web Conference ESWC 2009 vol. 5554, 2009, pp. 654668 14] M. Szomszor, H. Alani, K. OHara, and N. Shadbolt, Semantic modelling of user interests based on cross-folksonomy, in Proceedings of the 7th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC 2008 15] G.Begelman, P. Keller, and F.Smadja, Automated tag clustering: Improving search and exploration in the tag space, in Proceedings of the the Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop WWW 2006 16] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G. Stumme TRIAS - an algorithm for mining iceberg tri-lattices, in Procedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, \(ICDM 2006 2006, pp. 907911 17] C. Borgelt, Ef?cient implementation of APRIORI and ECLAT, in FIMI, COEUR Workshop Proceedings, COEURWS.org, vol. 126, 2003 18] J. Tang, H. Leung, Q. Luo, D. Chen, and J. Gong, Towards ontology learning from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 21st international jont conference on Arti?cal intelligence IJCAI 2009 20892094 19] L. Ding, T. Finin, A. Joshi, R. Pan, R. Cost, Y. Peng P. Reddivari, V. Doshi, and J. Sachs, Swoogle: A search and metadata engine for the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 652659 20] A. Hliaoutakis, G. Varelas, E. Voutsakis, E. Petrakis, and E. E Milios, Information retrieval by semantic similarity, International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems IJSWIS 21] G. Pirro, M. Ruffolo, and D. Talia, Secco: On building semantic links in peer to peer networks, Journal on Data Semantics XII, LNCS 5480, pp. 136, 2009 22] C. Meilicke, H. Stuckenschmidt, and A. Tamilin, Repairing ontology mappings, in Proceedings of the International Conference AAAI 2007, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 2007, pp. 14081413 23] S. Ravi and M. Rada, Unsupervised graph-based word sense 


disambiguation using measures of word semantic similarity in Proceedings of the International Conference ICSC 2007 Irvine, California, USA, 2007 24] H. G. A. Budanitsky, Semantic distance in wordnet: an experimental application oriented evaluation of ?ve measures in Proceedings of the International Conference NACCL 2001 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, 2007, pp. 2934 25] J. Jiang and D. Conrath, Semantic similarity based on corpus statistics and lexical taxonomy, in Proceedings of the International Conference ROCLING X, 1997 379 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


