Hilbert-curve based Cryptographic Transformation Scheme for Protecting Data Privacy on Outsourced Private Spatial Data Hyeong-Il Kim Dept. of Computer Engineering Chonbuk National University Jeonju, Republic of Korea melipion @jbnu.ac.kr Seung-Tae Hong Dept. of Computer Engineering Chonbuk National University Jeonju, Republic of Korea dantehst @jbnu.ac.kr Jae-Woo Chang Dept. of Computer Engineering Chonbuk National University Jeonju, Republic of Korea jwchang@jbnu.ac.kr 
Abstract 227 The study on spatial database outsourcing has been spotlighted with the development of cloud computing Therefore, researches for protecting location data privacy in outsourced database have been studied. However, the existing spatial transformation schemes are vulnerable to na\357ve attack models. The existing cryptographic transformation scheme provides high data privacy, but it causes the high query processing cost. To solve these problems, in this paper we propose a Hilbert-curve based cryptographic transformation scheme to protect data privacy an d to improve the efficiency of the query processing in outsourced databases. The proposed 
scheme reduces the communicatio n cost for query processing since we perform a local clustering based on the order of Hilbert-curve. Finally, we show from performance analysis that the proposed scheme outperforms the existing scheme Keywords- Database outsourcing; Data Privacy; Spatial Data Cryptographic Scheme; Hilbert-curve I I NTRODUCTION With the development of the cloud computing, researches on outsourced database have been studied. In outsourced databases, a data owner outsources to a service provider data hardware, and software as well as their management in order to focus on his/her core business area. The service provider 
manages the resources and allows authorized users to access the outsourced database for issuing queries. Outsourced database has an advantage that it allows the data owner to easily manage the data with low cost even though they lack the experience related to IT services Meanwhile, location-based services \(LBSs\ have been popular with the rapid spread of mobile devices equipped with GPS. LBSs include navigation system, friend finder, etc However, traditional LBS system with single server cannot handle a large number of spatial data. As the number of spatial data increases, more storage and much computational cost are required to manage it. Thus, a single server with limited resources shows low performance for handing a large 
number of spatial data. Therefore, the needs for outsourcing a spatial database to a cloud system are increasing However, when the data owner outsources the original spatial database, some privacy threats occur. This is because the spatial data contains the private information of the data owner. Another reason is that an authorized user needs to send queries with his/her exact location. If the location information has been disclosed to an attacker or a service provider abuses the information on malicious purpose, they can find places where users have frequently visited and dates when they have done. In this case, the visit pattern and lifestyle of individuals can be revealed To solve this problem, researches on protecting data 
privacy of the outsourced spatial databases in the cloud system have been studied. The existing methods fall into two categories: spatial transformation scheme and encryption scheme. First, there are several spatial transformation schemes [1wh i ch p er tu r b or i g ina l da ta i n to t he ot her da ta However, these methods are vulnerable to na\357ve attack models because they use simple transformation equation to convert data. For example, an attacker can get to know the transformation equation with some pairs of original data and its corresponding transformed data. Yiu et al   proposed a HSD* transformation scheme which utilizes both a data 
distribution transformation based on a k D-tree and an error injection based on a secure hash function like SHA-512. By modifying the property of the original dataset, HSD* can preserve the data privacy from the na\357ve attack models However, HSD* has a problem that the relative positions of original data points are quite similar to those of transformed data points. As a result, the attacker can approximately find the location of their adjacent data points from the revealed data points Secondly, encryption schemes solve the problems of spatial transformation schemes by encrypting the original data points. There are two famous encryption schemes for outsourced databases. First, Khoshgozaran 
et al   proposed a grid-based spatial data cryptographic scheme. In this scheme, a data owner encrypts the spatial data points of each grid cell by using a digital signature algorithm \(DSA  Yiu et al  propo s ed a cr y p togra ph ic transformation scheme \(CRT\which encrypts each node of constructed R-tree by using AES \(Advanced Encryption Standard  alg orit h m  Howe v er   these s ch e m e s h av e a  high query processing cost. In case of CRT scheme, the corresponding author 77 


communication cost for query processing increases as the depth of R-tree is increased. This is a big problem as LBSs deal with the huge amount of spatial data To solve these problems, in this paper we propose a Hilbert-curve based cryptographic transformation scheme HCT\for preserving data privacy of the outsourced spatial databases in the cloud system. In our method, we design Hilbert aggregation index instead of using a tree structure in order to enhance the efficiency of the query processing.  The proposed method minimizes the size of communication message by performing local data grouping based on Hilbertcurve order   The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In section II we introduce the existing methods for spatial data privacy preservation, especially in the outsourced spatial databases Section III presents overall system architecture and details of our Hilbert-curve based cryptographic transformation scheme. In section IV, we propose a range query processing algorithm in encrypted spatial databases. In section V, we compare the performance of our proposed method with that of the existing method. Finally, we conclude this paper with future work in section VI II R ELATED W ORK In this section, we first review spatial data privacy preservation schemes in LBSs where original spatial databases are published to a service provider. Then, we describe existing spatial transformations schemes and encryption schemes for spatial data privacy preservation in outsourced databases A Location Privacy in LBSs In LBSs, a mobile user issues spatial queries which are processed by a service provider. However, the user does not want to reveal his/her exact location information to the service provider. This is because if an attacker or malicious LBS provider abuses this information, the user's private information like lifestyle and disease can be disclosed. To protect the user\222s location privacy, there exist several schemes which blur the location of the user by using the k anonymity property. Mokbel et al 1 pr o p o s ed th e N e w Casper scheme which creates a cloaking area by using a grid-based data structure. Cloaking area satisfies the k anonymity property by including not only the user who requests the query, but also the k 1 other users nearby him/her. Lee et al 13 pro p o s ed t he GC C sche m e w h ic h creates a cloaking area by calculating the privacy protection level of the cloaking area by using entropy. Kim et al 14  proposed a cloaking area creation scheme where a query issuer generates a cloaking area in a distributed manner by collaborating with other mobile users. Wang et al 15 proposed the XStar scheme which creates a cloaking area by considering the road networks. However, these schemes just hide the user\222s exact location information at the query time Thus, an attacker or malicious service provider can abuse the original spatial databases which are published to the service provider Therefore, the original spatial databases should be transformed into the other form before the databases are outsourced to the service provider B Spatial Transformation Scheme The typical spatial transformation schemes which protect the spatial data in the outsourced databases are as follows Hacigumus et al first introduced the idea of outsourcing database to a third-party service provider in and  addressed the confidentiality of the outsourced database in  i m ie vs ki et al  e d a r ando m n o i s e ad diti on  approach. Gutscher et al  o po sed a spa ti al transformation scheme which converts the spatial data points by performing the parallel translation of plane coordinate However, because these schemes convert the data in a simple way, they are weak to data reconstruction attacks Meanwhile, Oliveira et al  prop o s ed the r ot a ti on perturbation scheme. Liu et al  o p osed a r an d o m  projection perturbation scheme. However, these schemes have a problem that they do not guarantee exact answers over the transformed data. In addition, they are all threatened by an attacker with prior-knowledge Yiu et al   pr o pose d t hr ee t r an s f or m a t ion m e t hods, i.e  hierarchical space division method \(HSD\, error-based transformation method \(ERB\, and an advanced HSD method \(HSD*\erforms spatial transformation by using a data distribution transformation based on the k D-tree The data owner \(DO\ transforms a distribution of the original database to the other distribution \(e.g., distribution of the other places, etc\. Because HSD uses a different transformation equation for each partition, HSD greatly reduces the probability that the transformation equation can be disclosed to an adversary. However, HSD has a crucial problem. Assume that dist is a distance between an original point and its corresponding transformed point. In HSD dist is very similar to a distance between another original point and its transformed point in the same node of the k D-tree. As a result, an adversary can infer the coordinates of the original data which are adjacent to the disclosed data On the other hand, ERB performs the transformation of spatial coordinates by inserting errors into the original data based on secure hash function, e.g., SHA-512. By doing so ERB can prevent the disclosure of transformation equations However, if the inserted error is small, the transformed data is very similar to the original data. Therefore, even if the transformation equation is not disclosed, the original data can be inferred. Meanwhile, if the inserted error is large, it causes high query processing overhead because a query region becomes great due to the large error. It also causes numerous false positives since many candidate POIs can be included in the query result Finally, HSD* is a method which combines HSD with ERB. In HSD*, the DO transforms a distribution of the original database to the other distribution by using k D-tree and the DO performs a data transformation by inserting error based on SHA-512. However, HSD* has the same problem of HSD. By using a disclosed original data and its transformed data, an adversary can infer the coordinates of other original data which are adjacent to the disclosed data. It means that from a small set of disclosed data, the original POI information, such as buildings and residences, can be disclosed, thus resulting in serious privacy threats 78 


C Spatial Data Encryption Scheme In order to solve the problems of spatial transformation schemes, studies on protecting spatial data by using an encryption scheme have been done. The typical encryption schemes which protect spatial data in outsourced databases are as follows. Khoshgozaran et al  propos ed  a grid-base d  spatial data encryption scheme. In this scheme, a DO encrypts the information of cells by using DSA \(Digital Signature Algorithm\ [9  Y i u et al  propose d  C R T method \(cryptographic transformation\. In this method, a DO indexes his/her spatial data by using R-tree. Then, the owner encrypts each R-tree node by using AES [1  o uts o ur ces  the encrypted data to a service provider \(SP\. Meanwhile, a query processing algorithm of the CRT method is as follows An authorized user \(AU\issues a query to a SP. The SP sends an encrypted root node of R-tree to the user. The AU decrypts the received root node by using a decryption key granted by the DO. Then the user searches a child node which overlaps a query region and requests the selected child node. This process is repeated until the algorithm reached a leaf node where data is stored. However, the CRT has a drawback that the communication cost for query processing increases as the depth of R-tree is increased. The problem is that it commonly happens because LBSs deal with the huge amount of spatial data III HILBERT-CURVE BASED CRYPTOGRAPHIC TRANSFORMATION SCHEME In this section, we first describe the motivation of the paper. Then, we explain the system architecture of the proposed scheme. Next, we present Hilbert-curve based cryptographic transformation scheme for protecting spatial data privacy A Motivation Our key motivation is that existing cryptographic transformation schemes for protecting spatial data has a problem that the cost of query processing is high. Even though these schemes guarantee high data privacy preservation level, an LBS user may not be satisfied if the query response time is not reasonable. For example, CRT the most relevant work to our research, has a problem that the communication cost for query processing increases as the depth of R-tree is increased, as shown in Figure 1. Figure 1 shows the outsourced data which are stored as an R-tree structure. The root node A stores the information of node B including MBR \(Minimum Bounding Rectangle\d is encrypted using AES encryption algorithm. Meanwhile, the leaf node B includes real spatial data a, b, and c which are also encrypted with AES algorithm Figure 1 Query processing example of CRT The query processing procedure of CRT is shown in Figure 1. The AU first requests a root node A to the SP and finds out that node B overlaps the query region \(q decrypting the information of node A. Then, the AU requests a leaf node B to the SP and receives the result. The AU decrypts data in B and gets the spatial data b as the final query result. As a result, a communication between the AU and the SP occurs two times, which is the same as the depth of R-tree. The communication cost for query processing increases as the total number of data in R-tree is increased or the number of data in each leaf node is decreased To solve the problem, in this paper we propose a Hilbertcurve based cryptographic transformation scheme \(HCT\ for preserving data privacy of the outsourced spatial databases in the cloud system. In our method, we design Hilbert aggregation index instead of using a tree structure in order to enhance the efficiency of the query processing. The proposed method minimizes the size of communication message by performing local data grouping based on Hilbert-curve order B System Architecture The system architecture of our cryptographic transformation scheme for spatial data is shown in Figure 2 The system consists of three components: data owner \(DO service provider \(SP\ authorized user \(AU\DO who has the original spatial data encrypts the spatial data and sends the encrypted data to the SP. The SP stores the encrypted data and offers location-related service to the AU To enjoy services from the SP, the AU receives the key for decrypting the data and verifying its permission To securely and efficiently manage the encrypted spatial data, we design 2 indices: Hilbert aggregation index \(HAI and transformed data index \(TDI\. HAI and TDI are defined as definition 1 and definition 2, respectively Definition 2  Hilbert aggregation index HAI is an index consisting of <ID shv  ehv where ID is an identification of the HAI record and shv and ehv mean the start Hilbert-curve value and end Hilbert-curve value of the HAI record, respectively Definition 3  Transformed data index index consisting of <ID cell_info where ID is an identification of the TDI record and the cell_info stores the actual location data included in the TDI record. Each TDI record stores F fan-out\ numbers of data for privacy preservation The procedure of spatial data encryption in HCT method is as follows. First, a DO generates a HAI and a TDI by using Hilbert-curve from his/her own original database \(1-a Secondly, the DO encrypts the HAI and TDI and sends them to the SP \(1-b\. Thirdly, the DO sends to the AU the key for decrypting the data \(1-c\. Meanwhile, the procedure of query processing on encrypted databases is as follows. First, the AU issues a query and receives the encrypted HAI \(2-a Secondly, the AU decrypts the HAI by using the transformation key sent from the DO and retrieves records satisfying the query region \(2-b\. Thirdly, the AU requests to the SP the TDI corresponding to the retrieved records \(2-c 79 


Finally, the AU obtains a query result by decrypting the returned TDI records \(2-d C Hilbert-Curve based Cryptographic Transformation Scheme In this section, we propose a Hilbert curve-based cryptographic transformation scheme \(HCT\for preserving spatial data privacy of the outsourced databases in the cloud system. In order to hide the coordinates of the original data the proposed scheme transforms two-dimensional spatial data into one-dimensional data by using Hilbert-curve. For this, our scheme divides the whole spatial area into grid cells and assigns them their cell IDs based on Hilbert-curve Figure 2 The procedure of generating HAI and TDI is described as follows. At first, the DO retrieves the spatial data according to Hilbert-curve order. When the first F numbers of data are retrieved, the algorithm stores the first/last grid cell id as the shv  ehv of the first HAI record. The F numbers of spatial data are stored in the cell_info of the first TDI record Similarly, for each set of F numbers of data, the algorithm stores it to the corresponding records of both HAI and TDI This process continues until all grid cells in the database are searched. For example, in case the value of fan-out\(F\ is 3, it is needed to retrieve both grid cells 0 and 1 in order to find three spatial data a  b and c Figure 2\So the algorithm assigns shv  ehv to 0\(1\ for the first HAI record. The retrieved results a  b and c are stored into cell_info of the first TDI record. Then, the algorithm searches grid cells ranging from ID=2 to ID=5 in order to find next three data Thus the data d  f and g are retrieved in grid cell 2, 4, and 5 respectively. The algorithm sets shv  ehv to 2\(5\ for the second HAI record. The spatial data d  f  g are stored into the cell_info of the second TDI record. Similarly, the algorithm continues updating HAI and TDI records until all grid cells are searched. After generating HAI and TDI, the algorithm encrypts them by using AES [1  an d se nds  bo th encry p t e d  HAI and encrypted TDI to the SP By using the HAI instead of using a tree structure, we can enhance the efficiency of the query processing. By using a grid structure and Hilbert-curve order based local data grouping, the proposed method can reduce the number of message transmission for query processing, and can minimize the size of communication message IV RANGE QUERY PROCESSING ALGORITHM A range query processing algorithm on encrypted databases with the HCT method is as follows. First, the AU receives the encrypted HAI by issuing a query, and decrypts the encrypted HAI by using transformation key received from the DO. Next, by using a Hilbert-curve, the AU searches the IDs of grid cells which overlap a query region and retrieves the HAI records corresponding to the grid cells When the AU finds out the HAI records which satisfy the range query, the AU sends the IDs of HAI records to the SP The SP sends the TDI records corresponding to the received IDs to the AU. Since TDI records are encrypted by applying the AES algorithm, the AU decrypts them by using a decryption key. As a result, the AU obtains the final result set of the range query Figure 3 shows an example of a range query processing algorithm on the encrypted databases with our HCT scheme in case of F=3. An AU decrypts the HAI sent from a SP by using a transformation key \(Figure 3\(b\\The AU finds out that grid cells 2, 3, 4, and 7 overlap a query region \(Figure 3\(a\, and retrieves the HAI records corresponding to the grid cells. The IDs of grid cell 2, 3, 4 correspond to the second record of the HAI, whereas that of grid cell 7 corresponds to the fourth and fifth records of the HAI. Therefore, the AU requests the TDI records corresponding to the second, fourth and fifth records of the HAI. When the AU receives the TDI records, the AU decrypts them by using the decryption key The AU obtains the spatial data d  f  g from the second record of the TDI, and the spatial data k  l  e and m  n  o  from the fourth and fifth records of the TDI, respectively Figure 3\(c\. Thus, the AU can find out the actual results i.e d  e  f  k  l and m that overlap the query region Figure 2.  The system architecture for the proposed cryptographic transformation scheme for spatial data 80 


a\Query region       \(b\Encrypted HAI  \(c\Encrypted TDI Figure 3. Example of range query processing A range query processing algorithm on encrypted databases with the HCT method is as follows. First, an AU issues a query to a SP and receives the HAI from the SP \(line 1\. Secondly, the AU decrypts HAI by using the decryption key and searches the IDs of grid cells which overlap a query region \(line 2-5\. Thirdly, the AU sends to the SP tuple IDs corresponding to the searched grid cells and receives TDI records from the SP \(line 6\nally, the AU decrypts the TDI records and obtains the final result set for the range query \(line 7-11\lgorithm 1 shows a range query processing algorithm on encrypted databases by using the HCT method Algorithm 1: HCT Range query Input Q : Query region, S k Decryption key Output Range query result 1 Encrypted_HAI = RequestRangeQuery\(Q 2 HAI = Decrypt\(Encrypted_HAI, S k  3 for each grid cell C i overlapping Q 4 hilb_val calculate_HilbertValue\(C i  5 tuple retrieve_Tuple\(hilb_val 6 res = request_TDI\(tuple 7 data = Decrypt\(res, S k  8 for\(each d i in data 9 if\(IsInsideQ\(d i  10 result d i 11 return result V P ERFORMANCE A NALYSIS A Performance Environment In this section, we compare our HCT with the CRT which is known to provide a distinguished performance. We make the performance analysis of both schemes in terms of spatial index construction time with encryption, range query processing time. We measure the metrics over the 100 queries, on the average. Table I shows our experimental environments TABLE I E XPERIMENTAL E NVIRONEMENTS CPU Intel Core2 Quad CPU Q6600 2.40GHz Memory 2GB OS Windows XP professional Compiler Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 We evaluate our HCT scheme by using three spatial datasets: the real data \(Northern East America \(NE uniform and Gaussian \(mean 0.5, variance 0.1\he synthetic datasets containing 100,000 point of interests \(POIs are generated by using Generate Spatio Temporal Data GSTD i le the NE d at as et c on t ai ns 11 9 898 P O I s B Spatial Index Construction Time with Encryption For each method, the performance trends are almost similar regardless of the data distribution, so we only depict the performance for the NE dataset as shown in Figure 4 The index construction time with encryption for CRT is drastically increased as the total number of POIs increases This is because CRT uses a tree index structure which incurs high computation cost for the data encryption when the number of POIs is large. Meanwhile, our HCT shows the better performance than CRT because it makes use of HAI As each record of HAI consists of ID shv and ehv the encryption time for the HAI does not require much time as like that of the CRT Figure 4. Spatial index cons truction time with encryption C Range Query Processing Time Figure 5 presents the range query processing time of our HCT method, according to fan-out ranged from 5 to 25. Our HCT shows the best performance when the fan-out is 15 When the fan-out is below an optimal value, the communication cost for the required TDI records is increasing. The reason is that when each TDI record contains the less number of data, the more messages are transmitted between an AU and a SP. On the other hand, when the fanout exceeds the optimal value, the query processing cost becomes higher due to the transmission and decryption of the unnecessary result. Based on the experimental results of the range query processing, we set the default fan-out to 15 Figure 5. Range query processing time according to fan-out Figure 6 shows the range query processing time according to the datasets. It is shown that CRT and our HCT methods show the best performances with uniform data set whereas they show the worst performances with Gaussian one. This is because a query result contains a large number of POIs in the Gaussian dataset as the POI density of Gaussian dataset is higher than those of NE and uniform datasets. Thus, the communication cost for transmitting TDI records which overlap the query region increases Overall 81 


our HCT method shows the better performance than CRT method for all cases. The reason is that our HCT method performs a decryption and a query processing by using the HAI, rather than using the tree index of CRT Figure 6. Range query processing time according to datasets Figure 7 presents the range query processing time with varying the size of query region from 0.005 to 0.1. The size of the query region means the relational portion compared with the total map area. It is shown that our HCT is up to 6 times faster than CRT. In case of CRT, the query processing time is sharply increased when the query range is larger than the 0.05% area of the whole area. As a query region becomes larger, the number of POIs included in the query result is greater. When retrieving the result POIs, CRT has a problem that R-tree retrieval cost is greatly increased as the number of result POIs increases. Our HCT shows better performance than CRT because it makes use of a HAI. By using HAI, we can reduce the number of message transmission for query processing, and can minimize the size of communication message by performing local data grouping based on Hilbertcurve order Figure 7. Range query processing time according to fan-out VI C ONCLUSION Recently, outsourced databases have attracted much interests with the development of the cloud computing Hence, researches on protecting spatial data privacy in outsourced databases have been actively studied. Among researches, cryptographic transformation schemes show the better performance in terms of the data privacy protection However, the existing cryptographic transformation schemes have a problem that the cost of query processing is costly. To solve the problem, in this paper we proposed a Hilbert-curve based cryptographic transformation scheme \(HCT\ for preserving data privacy of the outsourced databases in the cloud system. To enhance the efficiency of the query processing, our HCT uses the newly designed HAI instead of using a tree structure. HCT reduces communication cost for query processing by performing local clustering based on Hilbert-curve order. From the performance analysis, we show that our HCT shows better performance than the existing CRT scheme As a future work, we have a plan to expand our work to support k NN query processing and the user access control ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was supported by Basic Science Research Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea NRF\ funded by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology \(grant number 2013010099 R EFERENCES 1 H. Hacigumus, B.R. Iyer, C. Li, and S. Mehrotra, \223Executing SQL over encrypted data in the database-service-provider model,\224 In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM SIGM OD international conference on Management of data, 2002 2 H. Hacigumus, S. Mehrotra, and B.R. Iyer, \223Providing database as a service,\224 In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Data Engineering\(ICDE\ 2002 3 A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke, \223Privacy preserving mining of association rules. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,\224 June  2004, pp. 343-364 4 A. Gutscher, \223Coordinate transformation - a solution for the privacy problem of location based servic es,\224 In Proceedings of the 20th International Parallel and Distribu ted Processing Symposium, Rhodes Island, Greece, April 25-29 2006 5 S.R.M. Oliveira, and O.R. Zaiane 223Achieving privacy preservation when sharing data for clustering,\224 In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Secure Data Management, Toronto, Canada, August 30 2004 6 K. Liu, H. Kargupta, and J. Ryan, \223Random projection-based multiplicative data perturbation for privacy preserving distributed data mining,\224 TKDE, December 2006, pp. 92-106 7 M.L. Yiu, G. Ghinita, C.S. Jensen, and P. Kalnis, \223Enabling search services on outsourced private spa tial data,\224 VLDB Journal. vol. 19 issue 3, June 2010, pp. 363-384 8 A. Khoshgozaran, and C. Shahabi 223Private buddy search: enabling private spatial queries in social networks,\224 In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering, Vancouver, Canada, August 20-31 2009 9 Digital signature standard \(DSS\ST-Federal Information Processing Standards Publication. 186-3, 2009 10 Advanced encryption standard \(AES\ NIST-Federal Information Processing Standards Publication. 197, 2001 11 B. Moon, H.V. Jagadish, C. Faloutsos, and J.H. Saltz, \223Analysis of the clustering properties of the hilbert space-filling curve,\224 IEEE Transaction on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 13, issue 1 January 2001, pp.124-141 12 M.F. Mokbel, C. Chow, and W.G. Aref, \223The new casper: Query processing for location services without compromising privacy,\224 In Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, Seoul, Korea, September 12-15 2006 13 H. Lee, B. Oh, H. Kim, and J. Chang, \223Grid-based cloaking area creation scheme supporting continuo us location-based services,\224 In Proceedings of the 27th ACM Sy mposium on Applied Computing Trento, Italy, March 26-30 2012 14 H. Kim, Y. Kim, J. Chang, \223A grid-based cloaking area creation scheme for continuous LBS queries in distributed systems,\224 Journal of Convergence, vol. 4, issue 1, March 2013, pp. 23-30 15 T. Wang, and L. Liu, \223Privacy-aware mobile services over road networks,\224 PVLDB, vol. 2, issue 1, August 2009, pp. 1042-1053 16 Y. Theodoridis, J. Silva, and M Nascimento, \223On the generation of spatiotemporal datasets,\224 In Proc eedings of the 6th International Symposium on Large Spatial Database s, Hong Kong, China, July 2023 1999 82 


  was some degradation of 5 dB between the positive OFDM frequencies to the negative OFDM frequencies   Figure 9  Indoor SDMA demo setup with 10m separation between AP and UEs  Figure 10  EVM measurements show the performance of the RF units used in the demo Figure 11 shows the error rate performance of the LDPC decoder block. Table II describes the corresponding LDPC decoder performance once synthesized and implemented in TSMC 65nmLP process. We can see that at high rates \(3/4 and 13/16\ingle LDPC decoder block can easily surpass 1 Gbps with low power consumption of only 60 mw which implies that the total decoding power consumption to support higher date rates, for example 10 Gbps, should not exceed 300 mw in TSMC 65nmLP process. Smaller dimension processes such as 32nm, and 28nm should reduce the power consumption even more  TABLE II. ASIC Throughput and power consumption of the LDPC code decoder   Figure 11 describes the LDPC decoder performance at different rates and modulation scheme. It is shown in Figure 11 that the 16-QAM is worse than the QPSK by 6 dB. In addition the Rate=3/4 LDPC code is worse than Rate=1/2 code by 3 dB Because of the huge complexity of the system, the current receiver is partitioned onto 2 FPGAs, one for LDPC decoder and the other for all other modules. The data are transferred between them through 6.6 Gbps GTX transceivers. The expected overall throughput of our integrated design can reach 1.52 Gbps for the uncoded data. With the rate-13/16 LDPC code, this corresponds to 1.235 Gbps information bit rate. The maximum clock frequency in FPGA LDPC module is 28.8MHz, and the throughput is 1.61 Gbps  Figure 11  Performance of the 1728-bit Quasi-Cyclic LDPC decoder over AWGN channel V  C ONCLUDING R EMARKS  In this paper, we presented algorithms and architectures to realize high-data rate millimeter wave MIMO communication system. The system was implemented on FPGA and tested to prove that it is feasible to design and implement a high data rate MIMO beamforming system for millimeter wave short range communications with current technologies. Future work will focus on higher rates, lower power consumption, and wider band system realization to efficiently approach 30 Gbps rate VI  R EFERENCES  1  C. R. Anderson and T. S. Rappaport, In-Building Wide-band Partition Loss Measurements at 2.5 and 60 GHz,Ž IEEE Trans Wireless Communications., vol. 3, no. 3, May 2004 2  H. Xu et al., Measurements and Models for 38-GHz Point-toMultipoint Radiowave Propagation,Ž IEEE JSAC, vol. 18, no. 3 March 2000 3  Millimeter wave propagation: Spectrum management implicationsŽ, Federal Communications Commission, Office of Engineering and Technology, Bulletin Number 70, July 1997 4  F. Gutierrez, S. Agarwal, K. Parrish, and T. S. Rappaport, OnChip Integrated Antenna Structures in CMOS for 60 GHz WPAN systems,Ž IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 27, no. 8, pp. 1367…1378, October 2009 5  Van Nee, R., "Breaking the Gigabit-per-second barrier with 802.11AC," Wireless Communications, IEEE , vol.18, no.2 pp.4,4, April 2011 6  Baykas, T.; Chin-Sean Sum; Zhou Lan; Junyi Wang; Rahman M.A.; Harada, H.; Kato, S., "IEEE 802.15.3c: the first IEEE wireless standard for data rates over 1 Gb/s," Communications Magazine, IEEE , vol.49, no.7, pp.114,121, July 2011 7  Perahia, E.; Cordeiro, Carlos; Minyoung Park; Yang, L.L IEEE 802.11ad: Defining the Next Generation Multi-Gbps WiFi," Consumer Communications and Networking Conference CCNC\010 7th IEEE , vol., no., pp.1,5, 9-12 January  2010 8  B. Yin, S. Abu-Surra, G. Xu, T. Henige, E. Pisek, Z. Pi, J. R Cavallaro, "High-Throughput Beamforming Receiver for Millimeter Wave Mobile Communication," Accepted Globecom 2013, December 2013 9  S. Abu-Surra, E. Pisek, T. Heni ge, "Gigabit rate achieving lowpower LDPC codes: Design and architecture," WCNC 2011 pp.1994-1999, March 2011             The 11th Annual IEEE CCNC- Wireless Communications Track 543 


   978 1 4 673 1813 6/13/$31 00 \251201 4  IEEE  8  not ions of cloud brokers can also be envisioned via this approach, where one can extend private cloud based on a specific need or particular decision criteria  Most of the techniques and use cases mentioned in this paper are novel and emerging therefore car eful efforts should be made in evaluating these techniques before their adoption perhaps preceded by a use case analysis followed by developing an architecture and a conducting a prototype evaluation Although still in its adoption phase  there is a grea t deal of optimism that hybrid  approaches will make cloud applications  more flexible dynamic and cost efficient while greatly simplifying operational complexity  R EFERENCES  1  Hybrid Cloud definition http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800 146/sp800 146.pdf  2 H a s a n   M    C h a r  D    F a h e d   L    T u c k e r  L    M o rro w   M., Malyon A framework for controlling Mult itenant Isolation, Connectivity and  Reachabili ty in a Hybrid  Cloud Environment  http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft masum chari shc 00  3 Guichard, J., Kumar, S Quinn, P., Smith, M., Yadav N December 2013. Network Service Chaining Problem Statem ent. IETF Draft http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft quinn nsc problem statement 00  4 C i s c o  C l o u d  S e rv i c e  ro u t e r a n d  A m a z o n  w e b  s e rv i c e s   http://www.cisco.com/en/US/prod/collateral/routers/ps1255 8/ps12559/white paper c11 730083.html  5 M c D y s a n   D   C l o u d  b u rs t i n g  u s e  c a s e   http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft mcdysan sdnp cloudbursting usecase 00  B IOGRAPHY  Kapil Bakshi  works for Cisco Systems   Inc He is responsible for leading and driving data center an d cloud computing strategy and initiatives in the U  S   publ ic sector Kapil has extensive experience in strategizing architecting managing and delivering data center solutions During his caree r  he has held several architectural, consulting, and managerial positions within the industry Prior to Cisco Kapil worked for Sun Microsystems where he spent a decade working with United States Government and service p rovider customers  Prior to Sun  Mic rosystems he worked for Hewlett Packard and several government system integrators in consulting and product developm ent roles Kapil is a native of Washington   D.C   and holds both a BS in electrical engineering and a BS in computer science from the Unive rsity of Maryland, College Park, as well as an MS in computer engineering from Johns Hopkins University, and an MBA from the University of Maryland College Park. He also holds U.S. patents for data center and related solution sets     


2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC                                                                       787 


788                                                                                             2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 


    11   Figure 21 Tail functions for the spacecraft power consumption \(due to data availability only ADCS components and avionics board are considered in this plot\. The plot shows results for data statistic, two expert statistics \(proportional and bisection weights\ and two Bayesian statistics. The vertical dotted and dashed lines indicate t he estimates at PDR and CDR. It can be noticed that in this case the statistics \(especially Bayesian\ fail in recognizing the underestimation at PDR  Differently from the other cases the risk analysis for the total power consumption shows some problems Specifically the statistics do not seem to identify the underestimation of the initial PDR estimate  The cause of this issue depends mostly on the estimates of the power consumption for the ADCS components, since the estimates of the power consumption for the avionics board seem to be more accurate Future work will focus on improving estimates for the ADCS components maybe developing a specific expert elicitation interview with control experts only  The last results of this paper were computed performing the analysis of variance The analysis considers how the variance of each factor component or subsystem affects the total variance The objective of this analysis is to identify the main drivers for mass and power fluctuations To compute the analysis [4   th e h y p o t h esi s  o f  i n d ep en d en c e between the distributions of the single components is assumed Hence the variance of fluctuations for mass and power is the sum of the single variances   4  5  The variance proportions coefficients are defined as the ratio of the variance of each component to the total variance They are computed as  6  7  The coefficients for mass fluctuations are shown in Figure 22  The coefficients for power fluctuations are shown in Figure 23     Figure 22 Analysis of variance for the spacecraft mass estimates. According to all the statistics, the components of the control system together with the avionics board seem to be the components that show the biggest variance in their estimation  


    12   Figure 23 Analysis of variance for the spacecraft power consumption estimates. The statistics offer different results on which component seems to be the principle driver for the variance of the power consumption estimate  Analysis of variance shows that all the statistics identify ADCS and avionics board components as the major drivers for the variance in the estimation of the total mass Regarding the power consumption, the analysis of variance presents conflicting results according to experts and Bayesian statistics the ADCS subsystem is the main driver of the variance, while according to data statistic the avionics board is the main driver This difference can also be correlated with the issues observed in the total powe r consumption probability density function Figure 20 and 21 Future work will focus on a more detailed analysis of the control system for the spacecraft A final comment is related to the weighting of the distributions In this analysis two weighting schemes have been used the proportional scheme and the bisection scheme While in previous works focused on communication system design only  1   5    3    4   the bisection rule achieved substantially better results in the case of this paper the two methods provide very similar outcomes and they both give reasonable estimates However since this is the first case in which the methodology has been applied by the authors to the entire spacecraft design, it is too early to claim that in all the cases the two schemes will perform in the same way More test cases need to be analyzed and additional interviews with experts need to be performed  Conclusions and suggestions for future work are presented in the next section  4  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper presents the first attempt to extend the probabilistic approach to design risk to the entire spacecraft design This approach has been developed initially by the authors primarily for the design of the communication subsystem. In this paper, the authors extend the approach to the different subsystems and focus their effort on small spacecraft which are becoming increasingly more developed in academia space agencies and industries The methodology is extended to the entire spacecraft the database now includes data on several spacecraft components and the expert elicitation interview includes questions on the different subsystems. A university satellite mission \(CASTOR\ developed at MIT is used as a test case Results show that the methodology is effective in analyzing each component and in identifying whether the initial estimate of mass and power consumption made at PDR was an overestimation or an underestimation Specifically the tail functions provide useful insights which can be applied by the engineers while designing the spacecraft. The system results are obtained by convolution of the results obtained for the single components and they show that the model is able to clearly identify underestimation for the spacecraft mass while it does not perform as well for the power consumption. Similar results are obtained in the analysis of variance proportions Future work will be dedicated to analyzing the issue on the power consumption estimate as well as in developing specific statistic al  approaches to include newly developed payloads for which no previous data are available or for which expertise in the field is somehow limited Finally future work will also focus on extending the model to the design of larger spacecraft than small satellites and to the design of satellite constellations  5 ACKNOWLEDGMENT  Part of this work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Part of this work was carried out at the Space System Laboratory Massachusetts Institute of Technology 6 APPENDIX  A breakdown of mass and power consumption data for each of the components at PDR and CDR is shown in the following table Table 2: Values of mass and power consumption at PDR and CDR for each of the components analyzed Component  Mass PDR Kg  Mass CDR Kg  Power PDR W  Power CDR W  Solar Panel  3.34  5.066  0  0  


    13  Battery  3.2  2.64  70  50  Avionics Board  0.35  0.21  4  1.8  Satellite Structure  4.82  15.09  0  0  Magnetometer  0.01  0.01  0.03  0.03  Sun Sensor  0.03  0.03  0.08  0.075  GPS receiver  0.02  0.32  0.5  0.8  IMU  0.02  0.16  0.8  0..285  Reaction Wheels Assembly  0.12  0.21  1.2  7   R EFERENCES    1   A Babuscia Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design Ph.D Thesis Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2012  2   A Babuscia and K M Cheung Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design IEEE Systems Journal vol. PP, no. 99, pp. 1 12, 2012  3   A Babuscia and K M Cheung Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication Systems Design A Prelimi nary Look The Interplanetary Network Progress Report Vols. 42 188, pp. 1 33, 2012  4   A Babuscia K M Cheung and D W Miller Statistical Risk Estimation for Communication System Design: Development of Optimization Frameworks," in IEEE Aerospac e Conference Big Sky, Montana, 2013  5   A Babuscia and K M Cheung An approach to perform expert elicitation for engineering design risk analysis methodology and experimental results Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series A Oct  2013   6   V Cortellessa Model Based Performance Risk Analysis IEEE 2005  7   L Meshkat A Holistic Approach for Risk Management During Design IEEE 2006  8   F. Barrientos, I. Tumer and D. Ullman, "Design Teams Complex Systems and Uncertain ties IEEE 2005  9   W L Oberkampf J C Helto C A Joslyn S F Wojkiewicz and S Ferson Challenge problems uncertainty in system response given uncertain parameters," Vols. 85\(11 19\, 2004  10   Y Asnayr V Bryl and P Giorgini Using risks analysis to evaluate alternatives IEEE 2006  11   M Fuchs and A Neumaier Autonomous Robust Design Optimization with potential clouds Reliability and Safety 2009  12   M Fuchs A Neumaier and D Girimonte Uncertainty modeling in autonomous robust spacecraft system design in Proceedings in Applied Mathematics and Mechanics 2007  13   M. Fuchs and A. Neumaier, "Potential based clouds in robust design optimization  Issue on Imprecision of Statistics and Applied Mathematics 2008  14   N O Siu and D L Kelly Bayesian parameter estimation in probabilistic risk assessment Reliability Engineering and System Safety vol 62 pp 89 116 1998  15   A. Babus cia, M. M. McCormack, M. Munoz, S. Parra and D W Miller MIT CASTOR Satellite development  implementation and testing of the communication system Acta Astronautica vol 81 pp. 111 121, 2012     


    14  B IOGRAPHY  Alessandra Babuscia received her  B.S and M.S  degrees from the Politecnico di Milano Milan Italy  in 2005  and 2007 respectively and her  Ph.D from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology  MIT Cambridge in 2012  She has been  a Post Doctoral Associate with  the Space System Laboratory MIT She has developed  communication systems for different university  missions  CommCube 1, CommCube 2, TSat, CASTOR, ExoPlanet TerSat   TALARIS She is currently Telecommunication E ngineer in the  Communication  Architecture Research Group NASA Jet Propulsion  Laboratory in  Pasadena CA Her current research interests include communication  architecture design st atistical risk estimation expert elicitation inflatable antennas commun ication system design for small satellites and CubeSats multi disciplinary design  optimization mission scheduling and planning  Dr Babuscia received the Amelia Earhart Fellowship in 2010 and 2011  became a Gordon Engineering Leadership Fellow in 2010 an d 2011 and  received the Teaching Assistant Award from the MIT Aeronautics and  Astronautics Department in 2010, and the Top Graduate Award in the B.S  Program in 2005 and in the M.S Program in 2007 from the Politecnico di  Milano   K ar Ming Cheung  received his  B.S.E.E degree  f rom the University of Michigan Ann Arbor in  1984 and his  M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the  California Institute of Technology Pasadena in 1985  and 1987, respectively  He is currently a Principal Engineer and a Technical  Gr oup Supervisor with the Communication Architectures  and Research Section 332 Jet Propulsion  Laboratory JPL Pasadena His group supports  design and specification of future deep space  and near Earth communication systems and architectures  He has autho red or co authored over 30 journal and conference papers  in the areas of error correction coding data compression image processing  and telecom system operations He has been with JPL since 1987 where  he has been engaged in research development produc tion operation, and  management of advanced channel coding source coding synchronization  image restoration and communication analysis schemes  Dr Cheung has    Scheme   


    15                                                           


 16  56   Increase Cost Estimate Accuracy in Government  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013 57  J aso n  Ha y   J o h n  D  R ee v e s   E lain e Gr e s h a m   J u l ie Williams Predic  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013  B IOGRAPHIES   Sreeja Nag is a PhD candidate in Space Systems Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and  a part-time research fellow at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center  She has a dual SM Candidate in Aeronautics  Astronautics Engineering along with Technology  Policy at MIT. She has summer research experience with NASA JPL in 2008, the European Space Agency \(ESTEC in 2010 and led the SPHERES Zero Robotics Program in 2011. Email sreeja_n@mit.edu                Jacqueline Le Moigne is the Assistant Chief for Technology in the Software Engineering Division at NASA Goddard where she is currently leading a study on Distributed Spacecraft Missions She has  performed extensive work in developing new technologies for remote sensing data analysis e.g image registration high-performance and onboard processing She has published over 100 publications and recently co  Jacqueline.LeMoigne@nasa.gov   Olivier de Weck is a Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology He is also the Executive Director of MIT Production in the Innovation Economy PIE Study and the CoDirector Center for Complex Engineering Systems at KACST and MIT  Email deweck@mit.edu   

















Mohammed Taj, Dwight Day, Ar lie Stonestreet, Tim Sobering Paper Number: 2227; Presentation Number: 8.0201 Finding the Gaps in Space GNC Hardware Adam Greenbaum, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2288; Presentation Number: 8.0202 Technology for a Robotic Asteroid Redirect Mission and Its Extensibility to Future Human Missions John Brophy Paper Number: 2451; Presentation Number: 8.0203 Advanced Launch Vehicle Systems and Technologies NASA's Space Launch System: An Enabling Capability for Discovery Stephen Creech Paper Number: 2014; Presentation Number: 8.0301 A Dual Thrust Axis Lander for Mars Exploration David Masten Paper Number: 2384; Presentation Number: 8.0302 Innovation at ULA: It Really Is Rocket Science Gregory Schiller Paper Number: 2407; Presentation Number: 8.0303 Launch Vehicle Mission Capability Enhancemen t through Global Positioning System Metric Tracking Timothy Gray Paper Number: 2556; Presentation Number: 8.0304 Lateral Autopilot Design Using H\211\366? for Reusable Launch Vehicles Sheelu Jose Paper Number: 2435; Presentation Number: 8.0305 Adaptation of the Morris Method to MultiDimensional Factors for Air-Launch-to-Orbit Separation Henri Sohier, Jean Loup Farges, Lahanier Helene Piet Paper Number: 2566; Presentation Number: 8.0306 Hosted Payloads Concept for an ASRG Hosted Payload Mission Erich Schulze Paper Number: 2462; Presentation Number: 8.0401 Exploiting Hosted Payload Opportunities Surrey's Lessons Learned from OTB and Other Missions Anita Bernie, John Paff ett, Marissa Brummitt Paper Number: 2231; Presentation Number: 8.0402 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 22 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Human Factors & Performanc e Real Time VR Environment for MAJIC A ttitude Control System Development and Implementation Jared Rize, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2090; Presentation Number: 8.0501 Musculoskeletal Human-Spacesuit Interaction Model Ana Diaz, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2156; Presentation Number: 8.0502 Level of Automation and Failure Frequency Ef fects on Simulated Lunar Lander Performance Jessica Marquez, Margarita Ramirez Paper Number: 2285; Presentation Number: 8.0503 Spacecraft Human-Rating: Historical Over view and Implementation Considerations David Klaus Paper Number: 2272; Presentation Number: 8.0504 Pilot Control and Stabilization of a Rate Controlled Vehicle in Hyper-Gravity Torin Clark, Michael Newman, Dan Merfeld Paper Number: 2250; Presentation Number: 8.0505 Dynamic Task Allocation in Operational Sy stems: Issues, Gaps, and Recommendations Aaron Johnson, Kevin Duda, Charles Oman, Tom Sheridan Paper Number: 2087; Presentation Number: 8.0506 The V2Suit \211\333\317Down\211\333 Tracking Algorithm Rebecca Vasquez, Akil Middle ton, Kevin Duda, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2213; Presentation Number: 8.0507 Human Performance with Procedure Automa tion to Manage Spacecraft Systems Debra Schreckenghost, Dorrit Billman, Tod Milam Paper Number: 2477; Presentation Number: 8.0508 A Mission Guided Investigatio n of Operational Functions and User Interface for MAJIC Celena Dopart, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2088; Presentation Number: 8.0509 Modular Bus Technologies, Components and Standardized Spacecraft Reusable, Modular, and Scalable Flight Software L. Jane Hansen, John Hanson Paper Number: 2172; Presentation Number: 8.0601 Development of Attitude Contro l Systems for Modular Spacecraft John Hanson, L. Jane Hansen Paper Number: 2148; Presentation Number: 8.0602 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 23 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


The TET Satellite Bus \226 Futu re Mission Capabilities Anja Nicolai, Stephan Roemer, Silke Eckert Paper Number: 2465; Presentation Number: 8.0603 SMC's Standard Network Adapter for Payloads Garrett Ellis Paper Number: 2544; Presentation Number: 8.0604 Mechanical Systems, Design and Technologies Spin Stabilization Design and Te sting for the Van Allen Probes Simmie Berman, Heather Borowski Weilun Cheng, David Persons Paper Number: 2133; Presentation Number: 8.0701 Evaluation and Test of Different Gear Conc epts for Ka-band Antenn a Pointing Mechanisms Ralf Purschke, Alexander Hoehn Paper Number: 2098; Presentation Number: 8.0702 Europa Clipper Spacecraft Configuration Evolution Alexander Eremenko Paper Number: 2077; Presentation Number: 8.0703 Spacecraft Propulsion and Power Technologies Status of Propulsion and Entry Vehicle Techno logy Development under the NASA ISPT Program David Anderson, Eric Pencil, John Dankanich Paper Number: 2395; Presentation Number: 8.0801 Green Propellant Infusion Mission Program Overview Christopher Mclean, William Deininger, Bryce Unruh Paper Number: 2150; Presentation Number: 8.0802 Description of the Green Propellant In fusion Mission \(GPI M\sion System William Deininger Paper Number: 2627; Presentation Number: 8.0803 Applications of Micro-Cathode Arc Thruster as In-space Propulsion Subsystem for PhoneSat Samudra Haque, Gazulla Oriol Tintore, George Teel Greenfield Trinh, Eddie Ur ibe, Andres Dono Perez Michael Keidar, Elwood Agasid Paper Number: 2324; Presentation Number: 8.0804 Pulse Phase Modulation for On-Off Thruster Pair Runle Du, Jiaqi Liu Paper Number: 2069; Presentation Number: 8.0805 Autonomous Space Exploration Systems and Technologies Onboard and Self-Contained Landing Site Selection for Planet ary Landers/Hoppers Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman, Tye Brady Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 24 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2028; Presentation Number: 8.0901 Vision-Based Terrain-Relative Navigation and Hazard Detection Onboard a Terrestrial Rocket Ted Steiner, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2101; Presentation Number: 8.0902 Morpheus Vertical Test Bed Flight Testing Jennifer Devolites Paper Number: 2562; Presentation Number: 8.0903 Rocket Validation of the ALHAT Autonomous GNC Flight System Steve Paschall, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2045; Presentation Number: 8.0904 New Technologies and Instruments for Scientific Balloon Missions The Use of 3D Printing to Enable High Altitude Balloon Missions Jeremy Straub Paper Number: 2039; Presentation Number: 8.1001 Rapid Development of Balloon-Borne CDH Syst em with a Focus on COTS and Open Source Software Zachary Dischner, Kevin Dinkel, Jedediah Di ller, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2345; Presentation Number: 8.1002 Inexpensive Balloon-Borne Observator ies Using Modified COTS Telescopes Eliot Young, Robert Woodruff Paper Number: 2284; Presentation Number: 8.1003 Development of Meter-scale O-shaped and U-shap ed Oscillating Heat Pipes for GAPS Shun Okazaki, Hideyuki Fuke, Hiroyuki Ogawa Paper Number: 2188; Presentation Number: 8.1004 Development of a Meteorology and Remote Sens ing Experimental Platform: The LAICAnSat-1 Pedro Nehme, Renato Borges, Simone Battistini, Chantal Cappelletti Paper Number: 2159; Presentation Number: 8.1005 High Energy Replicated Optics to Explore the Sun: Flight Overview and Astrophysical Pointing Jessica Gaskin, Steven Christe, Ho dge Colleen Wilson, Albert Shih Brian Ramsey, Jeff Apple, Kurtis Dietz Paper Number: 2216; Presentation Number: 8.1006 A Solar Aspect System for the HEROES Mission Steven Christe, Albert Sh ih, Marcello Rodriguez, Kyle Gregory, Alexander Cramer, Melissa Edgerton Brian O'connor, Alexander Sobey, Jessica Gaskin Paper Number: 2400; Presentation Number: 8.1007 10 Meter Sub-Orbital Large Balloon Reflector \(LBR Christopher Walker Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 25 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2630; Presentation Number: 8.1008 First Results from the Hard X-ray Polarimeter X-Calibur Matthias Beilicke Paper Number: 2205; Presentation Number: 8.1009 Design and Performance of the BRRI SON UV-VIS Fine Pointing System Jedediah Diller, Kevin Dinkel, Zachary Dischner, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2308; Presentation Number: 8.101 Enabling Systems and Technolo gies for CubeSat/Smallsats A Reusable Command and Data Handling Sy stem for University CubeSat Missions Shaina Johl, Gokul Anandayuvaraj, Sean Horton Paper Number: 2403; Presentation Number: 8.1101 Design and Scientific Return of a Miniaturized Particle Telescope Onboard the CSSWE CubeSat Quintin Schiller Paper Number: 2408; Presentation Number: 8.1102 Fractionated and Distributed Systems Satellite-to-Satellite Optimization Approa ch for Opportunistic Inter-Satellite Links Cruz Ignasi Lluch, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2270; Presentation Number: 8.1201 Air Vehicle Systems and Technologies UAV Systems & Autonomy Modeling, Analysis and Fabrication of a Thru st Vectoring Spherical VTOL Aerial Vehicle Sagar Bose, Shibu Clement, Rohan Ve rma, Aditya Tripathi, Kriti Garuda Paper Number: 2097; Presentation Number: 9.0202 Aerodynamic Analysis of BlimPlane- a Conc eptual Hybrid UAV for Venus Exploration Mofeez Alam, Kumar Ashish, Sanjay Limaye Paper Number: 2313; Presentation Number: 9.0203 Aggressive Navigation Using High-S peed Natural Feature Point Tracking Christopher Raabe, John Vian, Emad Saad Paper Number: 2329; Presentation Number: 9.0204 Development of a Multipurpose Tactic al Surveillance System Using UAV's Rodrigo Rangel Paper Number: 2251; Presentation Number: 9.0205 A New Hybrid Motor Glider-Quadrotor MAV for In-Flight/V-STOL Launching Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 26 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2501; Presentation Number: 9.0206 SquidCop: Design and Evaluation of a No vel Quadrotor MAV for In-\225\302\342ight Launching Air-Ground Missions Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Paper Number: 2500; Presentation Number: 9.0207 Development of a Circulation Control Wing for UAVs Konstantinos Kanistras, Matthew Rutherford, Kimon Valavanis Paper Number: 2439; Presentation Number: 9.0208 Comparing the Economic and Regulatory State of UAS & Commercial Space Flight Harrison Wolf Paper Number: 2555; Presentation Number: 9.0209 Modeling of Real-Time Flight Control System for Small Coaxial Helicopter Seong Jin Lee Paper Number: 2530; Presentation Number: 9.021 Quantification of High Level Safety Crit eria for Civil Unmanned Aircraft Systems Xun Lin, Neale Fulton, Mark Horn Paper Number: 2619; Presentation Number: 9.0211 Three-dimensional Path Planning for Unmann ed Aerial Vehicles Based on Fluid Flow Xiao Liang Paper Number: 2707; Presentation Number: 9.0212 Airborne Imaging for Cultural Heritage Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2717; Presentation Number: 9.0213 Artificial Homeostasis for Vehicle Contro l Architecture of Unmanned Spacecraft Carlos Insaurralde, Emil Vassev Paper Number: 2543; Presentation Number: 9.0214 Multi Disciplinary Optimization Design of Modern Airship Based on Genetic Algorithm Masood Mayanbari Paper Number: 2647; Presentation Number: 9.0215 Aircraft Systems & Avionics Stochastic 4D Trajectory Optimizati on for Aircraft Conflict Resolution Yoshinori Matsuno, Takeshi Tsuchiya Paper Number: 2207; Presentation Number: 9.0301 Estimating the Internal Volume Requirement in a Multivariate Design Synthesis of a BWB Aircraft Paulinus Okonkwo Paper Number: 2281; Presentation Number: 9.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 27 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


A Novel Pump Design for an Efficient and Compact Electro-Hydraulic Actuator Gabriele Altare, Andrea Vacca, Carl Richter Paper Number: 2651; Presentation Number: 9.0304 Short-Term Turning in Presence of Wind as a Trajectory Optimization Problem Kamran Turkoglu Paper Number: 2652; Presentation Number: 9.0305 Air Vehicle Flight Controls Optimal Position Transfer Analysis of Stratospheric Airs hip in Wind Field Zhou Jianghua, Li Zhaojie, Sheng Wang, Jiang Luhua Paper Number: 2071; Presentation Number: 9.0401 Analyses and Comparisons for Several Flight Co ntrol Configuration of Stratospheric Airship Jing Gang Miao, Fan Wang, Yan Chu Yang, Xiang Qiang Zhang Paper Number: 2142; Presentation Number: 9.0402 Software and Computing Computational Modeling Multi-resolution Rapid Prototyping of Vehicle Cooling Systems Maciej Pindera Paper Number: 2019; Presentation Number: 10.0101 Feature Selective Validation Rohit Nijhawan Paper Number: 2024; Presentation Number: 10.0102 Designing a Fuzzy Logic Controller for the Reyn olds Number in a Blowdown Supersonic Wind Tunnel Shahrbabaki Amin Nazarian, Ali Shahriyari, Manshadi Mojtaba Dehghan Paper Number: 2146; Presentation Number: 10.0103 Bird Strike Analysis of Jet Engine Fan Blade Narender Lakshman, Ratnesh Raj, Yagnavalkya Mukkamala Paper Number: 2158; Presentation Number: 10.0104 Ammonia-Water Solution Clou d Modeling of Gas Giant Planets via Phase Equilibrium Calculations Virgil Adumitroaie Paper Number: 2513; Presentation Number: 10.0105 Computational Modeling of Chan nel Length Modulation in Ca rbon Nanotube Field Effect Transistors Adam Bushmaker Paper Number: 2538; Presentation Number: 10.0106 Flow Regimes in an Air Conditio ned Measuring Equipment Laboratory Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 28 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Ahmed Farag Paper Number: 2691; Presentation Number: 10.0107 A Multiscale Turbulence Prediction and Al ert System for Airports in Hilly Regions Adil Rasheed, Karstein S\314\374rli Paper Number: 2679; Presentation Number: 10.0108 Software Engineering Autonomous Real Time Requirements Tracing George Plattsmier, Howard Stetson Paper Number: 2100; Presentation Number: 10.0201 TSEpoch: An Object Oriented Design for Representing Time Lawrence Brown, Jon Vandegriff Paper Number: 2348; Presentation Number: 10.0202 Open Source RTOS Implementation for on Board Computer \(OBC\SAT-2 Bheema Rajulu, Sankar Dasiga, Naveen Iyer Paper Number: 2413; Presentation Number: 10.0203 On Development of Hilbert-Huan g Transform Data Processing Real Time System with 2-D Capabilities Semion Kizhner Paper Number: 2703; Presentation Number: 10.0204 A Test Scripting Framework for Automated Flig ht SW V&V Testing: Van Allen Probes Lessons Learned Jeremiah Finnigan Paper Number: 2010; Presentation Number: 10.0205 Confidence in Spacecraft So ftware: Continuous Process Improvement in Requirements Verification Kristin Wortman, Maria Spezio Paper Number: 2072; Presentation Number: 10.0206 Testing of Safety-Critical Systems An Aerospace La unch Application Ahmed Gario, Anneliese Andrews, Seana Hagerman Paper Number: 2495; Presentation Number: 10.0207 Software Architecture and Design Abstraction of Abstraction \226 an Outline of General Schedulin g Platform for Space Missions Jinjiang Xing Paper Number: 2655; Presentation Number: 10.0302 The Study of the Virtual Machine fo r Space Real-Time Embedded Systems Sooyeon Kang, Hyungshin Kim Paper Number: 2695; Presentation Number: 10.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 29 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Robust and Modular On-board Architec ture for Future Robotic Spacecraft Steffen Jaekel, Martin Stelzer, Hans Herpel Paper Number: 2376; Presentation Number: 10.0304 Model-based Systems and Software Engineering TES' Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE\FACETM Applications Stephen Simi Paper Number: 2110; Presentation Number: 10.0401 SOS for SoS: A New Paradigm fo r System of Systems Modeling Matthew Hause Paper Number: 2320; Presentation Number: 10.0402 MBSE without a Process-Based Data Architecture Is Just a Set of Random Characters Robert Crain Paper Number: 2111; Presentation Number: 10.0403 Model-Based GN&C Simulation and Flight Soft ware Development for Orion Missions beyond LEO Ryan Odegard, Zoran Milenkovic Paper Number: 2128; Presentation Number: 10.0404 A Model-Driven Visualization Tool for Use wi th Model-Based Systems Engineering Projects Kathryn Trase, Eric Fink Paper Number: 2192; Presentation Number: 10.0405 Integrated Model-Based Systems Engineering MBSE\d to Simulation of the RAX CubeSat Mission David Kaslow, Sara Spangelo, Grant Soremekun, Hongman Kim Paper Number: 2289; Presentation Number: 10.0406 New HiL Evaluation of an H-In f Controller on the Stabilization of a MAV in Flight Simulation Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernan des, Marcelo Becker Fernando M. Catalano Paper Number: 2521; Presentation Number: 10.0407 Model-Based Requirements Generation Brian London Paper Number: 2584; Presentation Number: 10.0408 Automatic Code Generation for Spacecra ft Attitude Determination and Control Bryce Carpenter Paper Number: 2686; Presentation Number: 10.0409 Implementing Artificial Intelligence for Aerospace Integrating Artificial Intelligence Techniqu es to Generate Ground Station Schedules Costas Tsatsoulis, Michele Van Dyne Paper Number: 2103; Presentation Number: 10.0501 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 30 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Missile Trajectory Optimization Usin g a Modified Ant Colony Algorithm Zachary Kiyak, Timothy Ledlow Paper Number: 2185; Presentation Number: 10.0502 Missile System Design Using a Hybrid Evolving Swarm Algorithm Timothy Ledlow, Zachary Kiyak Paper Number: 2225; Presentation Number: 10.0503 Distributed Multi-Agent Systems \226 a Litera ture Survey and Inquisitive Discussion Christopher Elliott Paper Number: 2504; Presentation Number: 10.0504 Star Tracker Orientation Optimization Using Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm \(NSGA Fabricio Carvalho, Francisco Salazar Paper Number: 2616; Presentation Number: 10.0505 Human-Computer Interaction Exploration with Live Stereoscopic 3D Video in Mixed Reality Environments Jason Kimball, Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2347; Presentation Number: 10.0601 Limitations of Crowdsourcing Using the EMS1998 Scale in Remote Disaster Sensing Andrew Huynh, Michael Eguchi Albert Lin, Ronald Eguchi Paper Number: 2602; Presentation Number: 10.0602 An EMG Enhanced Impedance and Force Control Framework for Telerobot Operation in Space Ning Wang, Chenguang Yang Michael Lyu, Zhijun Li Paper Number: 2675; Presentation Number: 10.0603 Cloud Computing Secure Hybrid Cloud Computing: Approach and Use Cases Kapil Bakshi Paper Number: 2078; Presentation Number: 10.0701 Cloud Computing for Geodetic Imaging Da ta Processing, Analysis, and Modeling Andrea Donnellan, Jay Parker, Jun Wang, Yu Ma, Marlon Pierce Paper Number: 2223; Presentation Number: 10.0702 A Survivability-Centered Rese arch Agenda for Cloud Comp uting Supported ERM Systems Zhanshan \(Sam Paper Number: 2696; Presentation Number: 10.0703 Diagnostics, Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM PHM for Aerospace Subsystems, Components and Structures Uncertainty in Prognostics: Computat ional Methods and Practical Challenges Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 31 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Shankar Sankararaman, Kai Goebel Paper Number: 2338; Presentation Number: 11.0101 Current/Pressure Transducer Application of Model-Based Prognostics Using Steady State Conditions Christopher Teubert, Matthew Daigle Paper Number: 2323; Presentation Number: 11.0102 Prognostics for Electronics and Avionic Systems Universal Auto-Calibration for a Rapid Batte ry Impedance Spectrum Measurement Device John Morrison, William Morrison Paper Number: 2030; Presentation Number: 11.0201 Integrated Diagnostics and Time to Maintenanc e Estimation for Complex Engineering Systems Mohammad Azam, David Kleinman, Somnath Deb, Deepak Haste, Suvasri Mandal Paper Number: 2642; Presentation Number: 11.0202 Algorithms and Advanced Concepts for Diagnostics and PHM Automatic Systems Diagnosis without Behavioral Models Rui Abreu Paper Number: 2162; Presentation Number: 11.0401 The Use of Data Signatures in Condition Based Maintenance Plus Charles Crabb Paper Number: 2674; Presentation Number: 11.0402 Design Attributes for Diagnostics and Prognostics Health Monitoring Requirements Elicitation via House of Quality Gianluca Nicchiotti Paper Number: 2473; Presentation Number: 11.0601 Total Ownership Cost Reduction for Complex Sy stems through the Design and Application of CBM Jeffrey Banks Paper Number: 2565; Presentation Number: 11.0602 PHM Technologies for Reliability and System Maintenance J69-T-25A Engine Comp onent Failure Analysis Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2443; Presentation Number: 11.0701 Analyzing T-53 Series Engines Defect Trends through Maintenance History Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2446; Presentation Number: 11.0702 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 32 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Systems Health Mana g ement for Space Systems and Operations Model-Based Fault Management for Spacecraft Autonomy Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Zetocha, Louis Breger Paper Number: 2026; Presentation Number: 11.0801 Maturation of Health Management Technologies via Ground/Flight Testing and Research Robust Monitoring of Turbofan Sensors Jerome Lacaille Paper Number: 2059; Presentation Number: 11.1001 Application of Model-based Prognost ics to a Pneumatic Valves Testbed Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni, George Gorospe Paper Number: 2293; Presentation Number: 11.1002 PHM for Astronauts and Pilots Performance Assessment & Motion Planning Optimization in a Su rgical Trainer for Potential Space Use Aakarsh Rao, Minsik Hong, Akash Shankaran, Jerzy Rozenblit, Wolfgang Fink Paper Number: 2511; Presentation Number: 11.1101 Planning a Pilot Project on the ISS for Crew Health Management & Maintenance beyond LEO Wolfgang Fink, Alexandre Popov, Andrew Hess Paper Number: 2680; Presentation Number: 11.1102 Real-time Online Health Analytics for Interplanetary Space Missions J. Mikael Eklund, Carolyn Mc Gregor Paper Number: 2604; Presentation Number: 11.1103 Personal Health Care and Corresponding Techno logy with Prognostic Capability. Issues and Challenges Olha Kevorkova, Alexandre Popov Paper Number: 2649; Presentation Number: 11.1104 Portable System to Monitor Astronaut Ocul ar Health and the De velopment of the VIIP Syndrome Wolfgang Fink, David Hilmers, Mark Tarbell Paper Number: 2657; Presentation Number: 11.1105 Probabilistic Design for Reliability of Aerospace Electronics Application of Multi-Parametric Boltzma nn-Arrhrnius-Zhurkov Model in Aerospace Optoelectronics Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2009; Presentation Number: 11.1201 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 33 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Aerospace Electronic Packaging: Thermal St ress in Bi- and Tri-Material Assemblies Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2015; Presentation Number: 11.1202 Prediction of Remaining Useful Life of Ball-Gr id-Array Interconnections from Testing on Board Level Laurent Bechou, Derigny David Gucik Paper Number: 2126; Presentation Number: 11.1203 Utilizing Confidence Bounds in Failure Mode Effects Analysis \(FMEA\d Risk Assessment Marc Banghart Paper Number: 2114; Presentation Number: 11.1204 Reliability Testing for Efficien t Validation and Qualification Joseph Bernstein Paper Number: 2049; Presentation Number: 11.1205 HALT, FOAT, and Their Role in Making a Viable Device into a Reliable Product Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2050; Presentation Number: 11.1206 Using Physics of Failure to Predict System Level Reliability for Avionic Electronics Greg Caswell Paper Number: 2053; Presentation Number: 11.1207 Injection-Coupled Devices \(ICDs\peration Pr inciple, Applications Design-for-Reliability Konstantin Tapero, Victor Murashev Pavel Ivshin, Sergey Legotin, Andrey Krasnov, Dmitry Elnikov Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2157; Presentation Number: 11.1208 Improved Methods for Development of High Reliability Electronics Jue Li Paper Number: 2183; Presentation Number: 11.1209 Long Term In-vacuum Reliability Testing of 980nm Laser Diode Pump Modules for Space Applications Laurent Bechou Paper Number: 2165; Presentation Number: 11.121 Some Major Guiding Principles to Make Future Manned Missions to Mars Safe and Reliable Jean Marc Salotti, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2083; Presentation Number: 11.1211 Designing with Consideration of the Human Fact or: Changing the Paradigm for Higher Safety Sylvain Hourlier, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2614; Presentation Number: 11.1212 PHM for Autonomous Systems A Battery Health Monitoring Framework for Planetary Rovers Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 34 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni Paper Number: 2291; Presentation Number: 11.1301 PHM for Propulsion Systems Fusing an Ensemble of Divers e Prognostic Life Predictions Oliver Laslett, Zaidan Martha Arbayani Bin, Robert Harr ison, Andrew Mills Paper Number: 2191; Presentation Number: 11.1401 Ground and Space Operations Spacecraft Development and F light Operations:  Challenges Successes, Failures and Lessons Learned Redesign of CloudSat's Maneuver s for Robust Delta-V Operations Ian Gravseth Paper Number: 2131; Presentation Number: 12.0101 ARTEMIS Operations \226 Experi ences and Lessons Learned Manfred Bester Paper Number: 2464; Presentation Number: 12.0102 Juno Spacecraft Operations Lessons Learned for Early Cruise Mission Phases Jeff Lewis Paper Number: 2554; Presentation Number: 12.0103 Changing the Paradigm GSFC's Role in th e MAVEN Mission. Lessons Learned from the MOS/GDS Effort John Hughes, Rosa Carlos Gomez, Brian Thibaudeau Francis Wasiak, Agustin Alfonzo, Juan Cifuentes Paper Number: 2705; Presentation Number: 12.0104 Design of a Spacecraft I&T Facility at the John s Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory William Liggett Paper Number: 2200; Presentation Number: 12.0105 Flight/Ground Systems, Mission Planning and Operations Careful and Accurate Placement of Avionics Boxes during Maintenance of Flight Hardware Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2361; Presentation Number: 12.0201 Design and Development of a Free-Floati ng Hexrotor UAV for 6-DOF Maneuvers Evan Kaufman, Kiren Caldwell, Daewon Lee, Taeyoung Lee Paper Number: 2527; Presentation Number: 12.0202 Using Vicon Bodybuilder and Plug-In-Gait to Generate L5/S1 Angles, Forces and Moments Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2656; Presentation Number: 12.0205 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 35 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


MAVEN Information Security Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance \(GRC Learned Eduardo Takamura, Kevin Mangum, Ro sa Carlos Gomez Francis Wasiak Paper Number: 2700; Presentation Number: 12.0206 Aerospace Aircraft Information Display System for Flight Operations in ND Ronald Marsh Paper Number: 2212; Presentation Number: 12.0207 Managing Life Cycle Cost and Risk - Affordability Operability, Sustainability, and Automation A Critical Analysis of Additive Manufacturi ng Technologies for Aerospace Applications Atin Angrish Paper Number: 2601; Presentation Number: 12.0301 Human Space Flight Operations and Processing Space Shuttle Launch Probability Analysis: Un derstanding History So We Can Predict the Future Grant Cates Paper Number: 2502; Presentation Number: 12.0401 Payload and Instrument Operations and Processing Cold Atom Laboratory Mission System Design Melissa Soriano, Anita Sengupta, Kristen Virkler Paper Number: 2084; Presentation Number: 12.0501 Extreme Environment SImulation - a New Capability to Simulate Venus and Other Planetary Bodies Tibor Kremic Paper Number: 2353; Presentation Number: 12.0502 Management, Systems Engineering and Cost System Simulation and Verification Response Surface Based Performance Anal ysis of an Air-Defense Missile System Kerem Gunaydin, Tayfun \307imen Paper Number: 2208; Presentation Number: 13.0101 Modeling and Simulation of Asteroid Retrieval Using a Flexible Capture Mechanism Havard Grip, Jonathan Cameron, Calvin Kuo Steven Myint, Masahiro Ono, Marco Quadrelli Paper Number: 2488; Presentation Number: 13.0102 Analysis of Rover Transmission Interruption Guinian Feng Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 36 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2585; Presentation Number: 13.0103 Risk Management: Application and Lessons Learned Low-Cost, Risk-Reduction Testing of Class D Spacecraft Photovoltaic Systems Joshua Forgione Paper Number: 2605; Presentation Number: 13.0201 A Practical Application of a Systems Engineering Process in Space Avionics Design and Development Patrick Phelan Paper Number: 2645; Presentation Number: 13.0202 Cost and Schedule Tools, Methods and Processes Historical Mass, Power, Schedule & Cost Growth for NASA Science Instruments Robert Bitten, Stephen Shinn Paper Number: 2107; Presentation Number: 13.0301 Life-cycle Cost Simulation of a New Implemen tation Process of Government Space Systems Paul Speth, Paul Blessner, Tim Blackburn Paper Number: 2240; Presentation Number: 13.0302 Exploring Classification Algorithms for Early Mission Formulation Cost Estimation Net Marc Sanchez, Daniel Selva, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2304; Presentation Number: 13.0303 NASA Instrument Cost Model for Expl orer-like Mission Instruments \(NICM-E Joseph Mrozinski, Agahi Hamid Habib, George Fox Paper Number: 2537; Presentation Number: 13.0304 Enterprise Modeling for Cubesats Louise Anderson, Christopher Lo we, David Kaslow, Eric Sudano Rose Yntema, Sharanabasaweshwara Asundi, Sara Spangelo Paper Number: 2341; Presentation Number: 13.0305 Cost and Risk Analysis of Small Satel lite Constellations for Earth Observation Sreeja Nag, Jacqueline Le Moigne, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2459; Presentation Number: 13.0306 FTE Tool, a Practical Tool for Analyzing St affing Levels and Cost across Missions Justin Mc Neill Paper Number: 2279; Presentation Number: 13.0307 Management Tools, Methods and Processes The Legacy of Faster-Better-Cheaper: Too Much Risk or Over-reaction to Failure Merrill Robin Dillon, Peter Madsen Paper Number: 2017; Presentation Number: 13.0401 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 37 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Risk-Based Space System Design: A Novel Prob abilistic Approach to Design Risk for Small Satellites Alessandra Babuscia, Kar Ming Cheung Paper Number: 2091; Presentation Number: 13.0402 Collaborative Engineering in Competitive Environments: Th e PTSS Integrated Systems Engineering Team James Leary, Patrick Stadte r, Patrick Binning, David Durey, Jae Heiner, Stephen Kendrick, Dan Schwab Dana Southwood Paper Number: 2130; Presentation Number: 13.0403 Model Linking to Improve Visibility and Re usability of Models during Space System Development Meenakshi Deshmukh, Ren\351 Schwarz, Lopez Rosa Paris Paper Number: 2224; Presentation Number: 13.0404 Boeing's 702 Product Line : Sy stem Engineering a Cost Effective Product Portfolio Strategy Richard Milford Paper Number: 2402; Presentation Number: 13.0405 NASA's New Space Flight Project Requirements Earlier Definition for Later Cost Stability Jeffery Webster Paper Number: 2549; Presentation Number: 13.0406 Using Monte Carlo Simulation as Support for Decision Making While Negotiating a PBL Contract Jan Block Paper Number: 2668; Presentation Number: 13.0407 Using Organizational Messages to Improve the Recognition of Near-Miss Events on Projects Merrill Robin Dillon, Catherine Tinsley Paper Number: 2016; Presentation Number: 13.0408 Mission Modeling, Concept Optimization and Concurrent Design Multi-stakeholder Interactive Simulati on for Federated Satellite Systems Paul Grogan, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2163; Presentation Number: 13.0501 Remote Sensing Satellite System Overall Effectiveness Analysis and Modeling Abou Bakr Elhady Paper Number: 2671; Presentation Number: 13.0502 Deep Space Navigation Mission Design and Analysis Tool Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Graven Paper Number: 2023; Presentation Number: 13.0503 Systems Architecture, Engineeri ng and System of Systems Optimization of a Small Sate llite Tridyne Propulsion System Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 38 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Brian Cohen, Robert Legge Paper Number: 2036; Presentation Number: 13.0601 Experiments in Knowledge-intensive System Architecting: Interactive Architecture Optimization Daniel Selva Paper Number: 2217; Presentation Number: 13.0602 Computer-aided Design & A ssessment of Disaggregate Space System Architectures Robert Thompson Paper Number: 2214; Presentation Number: 13.0603 In-Space Transportation Infrastructure Arch itecture Decisions Using a Weighted Graph Approach Peter Davison, Bruce Cameron Paper Number: 2257; Presentation Number: 13.0604 Trade Space Evaluation of Ascent and Return Ar chitectures for a Mars Sample Return Mission Farah Alibay, Zachary Bailey Paper Number: 2298; Presentation Number: 13.0605 Technology Transfer and Commercialization NASA Innovation Ecosystem: Host to a Go vernment Technology Innovation Network Jill Hardash Paper Number: 2570; Presentation Number: 13.0701 Consideration of Risk versus Reward in Balancing Technology Portfolios Richard Terrile, Andrea Belz Paper Number: 2639; Presentation Number: 13.0702 Promoting \(and Provoking The Politics of Space Launch: All Launch Systems Are Not Nominal Mark Bitterman Paper Number: 2392; Presentation Number: 13.0801 Students Touch Space in Zero Robotics Pr ogramming Competition with Free Downloadable Curriculum Jenny Liu Paper Number: 2673; Presentation Number: 13.0802 From STEM to STEAM: Towards Aerospace Partnerships with Cu ltural Heritage Diagnostics Ashley Richter Paper Number: 2598; Presentation Number: 13.0803 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 39 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


