Use of Artificial Intelligence Methods for Advanced Bearing Health Diagnostics and Prognostics S.L Chen Mark Craig Rob Callan2 Honor Powrie2 and Robert Wood Surface Engineering and Tribology Group School of Engineering Sciences University of Southampton Southampton Hampshire S017 1BJ UK 2GE Aviation Digital Systems Information Systems School Lane Eastleigh Hampshire S053 4YG UK Honor.Powriegge.com Abstract Prognostics is the ability to predict the condition of a piece of equipment at any stage during 
its useful life It is the cornerstone of Prognostics Health Management PHM major goals of which are efficient maintenance and logistical practices and optimized mission or equipment use and effectiveness PHM will be achieved through monitoring a range of equipment sub-systems and combining the information to predict how and when the equipment will fail with sufficient time for action or planning This paper describes ongoing research by the University of Southampton and GE Aviation to 
investigate the intelligent processing of mechanical component health data to improve prognostics and diagnostics In particular to evaluate the effectiveness of various sensing technologies when applied to monitoring bearings extending the window of time over which a failing component condition may be determined prognosing and identifying the nature of the failure diagnosing 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 ADVANCED DATA ANALYSIS  2 3 BEARING RIG TESTS 2 
4 RESULTS 3 5 CONCLUSIONS 8 REFERENCES   8 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS   8 BIOGRAPHY   8 1 INTRODUCTION GE Aviation has developed intelligent tools and techniques under the Probabilistic Diagnostic and Prognostic System ProDAPS dual use science and technology DUS&T  1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper  1153 Version 2 Updated 14 December 2007 program jointly funded with the US Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL The ProDAPS 
toolset incorporates various Artificial Intelligence Al based technologies which have been developed for analyzing aircraft health data The toolset has two core tools data mining incorporating advanced learning algorithms and reasoning probabilistic networks and provides capabilities including data mining anomaly detection information fusion reasoning and decision support  action planning for a variety of applications see 1 and 2 for example In the work described herein the ProDAPS toolset is used 
to model the density of the data Additional techniques including Hotelling s T-squared statistic extreme value statistic EVT log-likelihood score and Entropy Score are then applied to the model to extract prognostic and diagnostic information The analysis uses data collected from a series of bearing rig tests conducted by the University of Southampton UK The test rig instrumentation included vibration and electrostatic sensors as well as off-line processes such as debris analysis 
and tribological assessment of bearing condition which may be used for corroborative purposes The various processed parameters from the electrostatic and vibration sensors are used as the input for the intelligent data analysis Two data sets are used no fault baseline data and data from an accelerated bearing failure seeded fault test The no fault data is used for training and the methodology developed is applied to the seeded fault data The paper describes the approach 
taken and techniques applied to characterize the no fault data including how to deal with natural variation in the processed sensor parameters When applied to the accelerated bearing failure test the intelligent analysis results demonstrate how the prognostic window is significantly improved relative to the original processed parameter indication and also the relevance of each processed parameter for increasing the early indication or precursor of the failure The approach also identifies the 1 


main variables extracted features which drive the anomaly detection so as to provide diagnostic information 2 ADVANCED DATA ANALYSIS Feature Extraction Real-time signals from electrostatic wear-site WSS and vibration sensors were processed into a series of features These features form the input to the Al based processing The features produced for the sensor types are given in Table 1 An overview on the electrostatic technology and processing may be found in 3 Table 1 Feature Extraction for the On-Line Sensors Feature Vibration Electrostatic WSS RMS V V 1 Rev v Cage v v Roller v Outer Race v v Inner Race v Gaussian Mixture Model GMM Often it is assumed that data may be described by a single normal Gaussian distribution However real world data may be distributed in a more complicated way Data from different time intervals might occupy their own space of normality e.g vibration level varies at different times due to a different load regime or contain unknown anomalies Clearly data with these elements will not follow a single Gaussian distribution In this case the data may be characterized by a combination of Gaussian distributions or a Gaussian Mixture Model Anomaly Detection Often data sets which are believed to be fault-free contain a degree of fault or poor integrity data If such a data set is used to develop anomaly detection then the method will generally be flawed the anomaly model being de-sensitized to anomalies inherent in the training data For the current work a Gaussian Mixture Model was used to model training data and construct the anomaly detection model The entropy statistic was calculated for each cluster within the GMM Poor integrity training data was identified from clusters with the lowest entropy scores These were removed from the original GMM and the anomaly model rebuilt from the remaining data Fault Detection Indices Hotelling's T-squared Statistic is a statistic for a multivariate test of differences between the mean values of two groups Extreme Value Theory is a branch of statistics concerning data with unusually low or high values i.e data that lies in the tails of the distribution These points are significant in many applications as they represent the extremes of normal events and a means by which novel events may be defined Log-likelihood score measures how well an established GMM fits the test data The higher the log-likelihood the better the fit Mahalanobis Distance Mahalanobis distance is used to measure the similarity between the unknown test sample and known Gaussian mixture The less the distance the closer the similarity 3 BEARING RIG TESTS The bearing rig tests discussed in this paper form part of a series of tests undertaken at the University of Southampton Details of the rig may be found in other references see 4 for example so only a brief overview is provided here The bearing rig comprises four taper roller bearings housed in a chamber as shown in Figure 1 The bearings are mounted on a shaft driven by an electric motor The outer two bearings 1 and 4 are support bearings whilst the inner bearings 2 and 3 are test bearings The two test bearings have radial load applied to accelerate their failure In addition for the failure test analyzed in this paper bearing 3 was pre-indented on the inner race The baseline test was with all non-indented bearings The bearing types were LM67010 cup and LM67048 cone which are all steel bearings The rig was run at a constant speed of 2500 rpm under ambient conditions The rig was instrumented with a number of condition monitoring sensors In the test chamber there is one vibration sensor mounted externally three electrostatic wear-site sensors WSS one each on bearings 1 and 4 and one looking at bearings 2  3 and two thermocouples monitoring the outer raceways of bearings 2 and 3 The oil re-circulation pipework included an electrostatic oilline debris sensor thermocouples to measure temperature at the inlet and outlet of the test chamber and ambient temperature Additional oil-line debris sensors included an inductive debris sensor which provided particle counts for  100 microns The testing also included a number of complimentary offline analyses Oil samples were taken during various stages of the testing and these were analysed for sub-100 micron debris content Tribological analyses of the bearing condition pre and post-test were conducted and included photographic evidence and mass loss calculations Where applicable the oil-line sensors and post-test  off-line analyses were used to help interpret the responses of the vibration and WSS sensors during the tests 2 


as the input to the Al based anomaly detection process described in Section 2 Initially all the baseline data a nominally steady state The feature extraction data from the baseline test 0.06 0.04 0.02 0 V 0 10 20 30 new bearings which reduces with time This feature would be expected from all tests utilizing was run through the model but it was evident that certain sections of the data 40 50 60 70 80 Time hours Figure 2 Vibration and Electrostatic WSS Sensor RMS Data from Baseline Test 4 RESULTS Baseline Test Examples of the feature extraction data from the baseline test for the vibration and electrostatic Test load applied Figure 1 Bearing Rig Chamber Showing Main Test Components 0.2 0.18 0.16 6 5 4 0.14 0.12 0.1 0.08 3 WSS3RMS VibRMS 2 1 was used were exhibiting atypical behaviour Including these in the anomaly detection model would lead to sensors Once run-in has completed the feature levels reduce to an initial run-in phase can be seen where the signals start off relatively dynamic The run-in phase is associated with the production of fine debris from the new bearings and has been corroborated by the results from the oil-line debris so effective when 3 0 QL sensors are presented in Figure 2 From these RMS levels a coarser view of normality which may not prove 


trying to detect real faults For this reason the baseline data was trimmed and a new anomaly model generated This was used in the analysis of the seeded fault test data Failure Test The failure test lasted approximately 63 hours and resulted in the unexpected failure of one of the support bearings as opposed to the seeded fault bearing Fortunately sufficient instrumentation was in place on the rig to enable the real bearing failure to be comprehensively monitored The extracted features from the failure test show responses to the impending bearing failure from the electrostatic WSS and vibration sensors from about 54 hours Examples of these responses are shown in the RMS data from the vibration and WSS sensors in Figure 3 From this it is evident that a significant bearing failure event is in progress but even with the different extracted features it is not certain exactly which bearing component i.e inner race outer race roller or cage is the cause of the event Possibly because the failure is so significant at this point many of the features are affected and therefore no clear pattern is emerging It is noted that the start of the event is within less than 10 hours of the failure which in real terms may not be sufficient time to determine the appropriate course of action inspect diagnose determine maintenance action obtain spares etc Thus whilst detection of the impending failure is clear there are two aims behind further analysis of the data First 0.2 0.18 0.16 0.14 m Indic 0.12 Impe Failu 0.1 0.08 0.06 0.04 is to determine whether an earlier prognostic evaluation of the failure can be achieved i.e can the failure be detected in advance of the final few hours Second is to see whether there is any capability for determining what the fault actually is i.e is there any clear diagnostic information available In the field both these elements of information are important if goals such as optimized maintenance planning minimum logistic footprint and maximum equipment usage are to be achieved This is true for commercial and military applications The feature extraction results from the failure test were further analysed using the Al techniques described earlier Figure 4 shows Hotelling's T-squared statistic data which has been run through the anomaly detection model From this figure there is evidence of abnormal behaviour at the start of the test which as already observed from the baseline test is due to the bearing running in The run out to failure from about 54 hours dominates There is evidence of change in advance of 54 hours an overall increase at around 36 or so hours with significant peaks between 43 and 45 hours This is shown in more detail in Figure 5 where the initial run-in and final gross failure results have been left out The in between data set is more representative of day-to-day running and shows the challenges of detecting significant changes in bearing condition amidst the normal variability For the remainder of the data analysis presented the initial run in and final failure results have been omitted 6 5 4 32  WSS3RMS VibRMS 0 1 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time hours Figure 3 Vibration and Electrostatic WSS Sensor RMS Data from Failure Test 4 1 


End of Run u1Gv1*F Uv 100000 E~~nd ofhRun Impending Failure from uUuUu in Phase Feature Extraction Data 10000 1 11 1000 1000000 100000 1 00 10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time hours Figure 4 Anomaly Detection from Hotelling's T2 Statistic During Failure Test 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 17 22 27 32 37 42 47 52 Time hours Figure 5 Anomaly Detection from Hotelling's T2 Statistic with Run-in and Gross Failure Data Omitted From the anomaly analysis a contribution value for each extracted feature was determined This shows which features are most significant in driving the anomaly Looking first at the RMS contribution values it can be seen that both the electrostatic and vibration sensor data play a role in the anomaly detection Figure 6 Drilling down to the extracted features for the WSS 3 the larger contribution values come from the Outer Race OR at around 37 and 43 hours see Figure 7 The WSS Rolling Element Rlg El contribution values from about 36 hours onwards are also increased Figure 7 This ties in with the initial rise in the T-squared anomaly at that time 5 


U co a 10 2 8 g 0 6  C 0 4 0 cn 2 It cn cn O VibRM S WSS3RMS Time hours Figure 6 Vibration and Electrostatic WSS Sensors RMS Contribution Values    Q _ m C 0 0I C 0 8 6 4 2 0 4 2 r w cn O cn WSS3 OR WSS3 Rlg El Time hours Figure 7 Electrostatic WSS OR and Rolling Element Contribution Values 6 10 U 6  C 0 1U 0_ C 0 0 I C  L w cn cn 10 8 6 4 2 0 8 0 co a 10 


an in-field operated bearing The additional analysis has also demonstrated the potential for diagnosis of the impending failure Both vibration and electrostatic WSS data indicate was an accelerated failure test a significantly earlier detection may be achieved from the vibration and electrostatic sensors increasing the time from detection to failure by approximately 18 hours i.e from 9 hours to 27 hours It should be noted that this a failure in the bearing outer a problem with the rolling elements As both race damage it would be expected that this is the a reasoning network to enable the nature and severity of the predicted faults to be automatically determined Figure 9 Post-test Condition of Failed Bearing Outer Race Figure 10 Post-test Condition of Failed Bearing Rolling Elements 7 U 0 n 0 az 0 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 22 27 32 37 42 47 52 Time hours Figure 8 Vibration Sensor OR Contribution Values For the vibration data the significant contribution values sensor also detects n LA._ Q _ 17 race The electrostatic race Figure 9 and several of the rolling elements suffered material loss more significant of the two faults Both these faults and the hence the diagnosis sensors indicate the outer as well Figure 10 Although not undertaken for the work presented it is envisaged that this type of information could be fed into so the time to failure will be significantly reduced compared to are corroborated in the post-test tear down and inspection of the bearing There is significant damage to the outer come from the OR component from 37 hours onwards Figure 8 The Al based analysis of the data has shown that 


sensor outputs In real world applications the approach may be scaled up to produce diagnostic information at equipment sub-system level a corroborated diagnostic To put this into context ProDAPS has an advanced probabilistic reasoning engine with unique capabilities for scaling to large tasks and representing sophisticated statistical models The reasoning engine is used to provide more information about an anomalous event such as the likely cause and it can assist with difficult decisions by quantifying the cost and benefits of different actions such as maintenance Reasoning can be inferencing with a-priori knowledge or case-based by matching to previous cases with similar symptoms The reasoning engine is able to combine the strengths of data driven modelling knowledge derived from experience with a-priori knowledge This paper has explained a data driven analysis technique for detecting an abnormal event that gives warning of an impending failure and extracts the processed sensor features contributing to the anomaly The reasoning engine can use a-priori knowledge about the response of these features to different failure modes to predict the type of failure The same procedure but using different anomaly modelling and contribution scoring of input features is currently being applied to Health and Usage Monitoring System HUMS vibration data collected from helicopters operating in the North Sea To date ProDAPS has highlighted many events not seen by the conventional HUMS threshold detection analysis Models for reasoning about the anomaly outputs are currently being developed and these reasoning models will have the task of distinguishing the type of fault e.g mechanical component or instrument and the nature diagnostic of the failure e.g shaft imbalance A similar architecture is being implemented for processing electrostatic debris detection data on the GE F136 engine for the Joint Strike Fighter JSF aircraft efficiency maximized use of equipment reduced logistic footprint optimized maintenance decision support etc are to be realized then continued development of advanced analysis techniques such as those discussed herein are essential REFERENCES 1 Rob Callan and Brian Larder The implementation of advanced diagnostic and prognostic concepts Practical tools for effective diagnostic and prognostic health management IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana 2003 ISBN 0-7803-7652-8 2 Rob Callan Brian Larder and John Sandiford An Integrated Approach to the Development of an Intelligent Prognostic Health Management System IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana 2006 ISBN 0-7803-9546-8 3 H E G Powrie R J K Wood T J Harvey L Wang and S Morris Electrostatic charge generation associated with machinery component degradation IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana 2002 ISBN 0-7803-7232-8 4 T J Harvey R J K Wood and H E G Powrie Electrostatic wear monitoring of rolling element bearings Wear Volume 263 Issues 7-12 10 September 2007 Pages 1492-1501 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS CONCLUSIONS The results presented in this paper have shown that Al based analysis techniques have sensor data with and without the additional analysis is clearly highlighted The diagnostic results presented relate to sub-components of the bearing It is recognized that this level of diagnostic would generally be too detailed for most fielded applications the purpose of the current approach is to show that as improved 8 The authors would like to thank all those involved in setting up and running the bearing rig tests which provided the data for the current analysis and also those involved in developing the ProDAPS toolset that has been used to analyse the data BIOGRAPHY Rob Callan is a technical fellow at GE Aviation Information Systems He holds a BSc in Mechanical Engineering and a PhD in Artificial Intelligence Rob has over 20 years experience in Al with 11 of these spent in aerospace applications During the past 8 years he has been technical lead for the development and application of Al techniques for PHM The techniques concern the extraction of information from data and span the PHM functional layers from state detection to decision support Capabilities are state-of-art in the areas of anomaly detection reasoning  fusion and decision support These techniques are now being applied to helicopter health management and military engine diagnostics  prognostics Rob has published many academic papers and two textbooks on Al can be achieved from different as appropriate This paper has presented work in progress however it is evident that if operational goals such a significant role to play in optimization of equipment management Traditional feature extraction data from vibration and electrostatic sensors have been exploited to provide prognostic i.e increased time from detection to failure and diagnostic information i.e determine the nature and possibly severity of the impending failure The difference in the performance of the 


Honor Powrie is a Technology Manager at GE Aviation Information Systems specializing in the application of electrostatic sensors for condition monitoring She has a wide interest in condition monitoring practices including the fusion of multiple data sets to improve fault diagnosis and prognosis Honor holds a BSc in Physics and a PhD in Aeronautical Engineering 9 


for the Rock Abrasion Tool RAT and science support for Mission Operations on the Mars 03 mission Currently Dr Anderson is the Investigation Scientist for the Sample Acquistion  Sample Processing and Handling subsystem on the Mars Science Laboratory He works closely with the FIDO rover team and is presently the Science Team lead on the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System OASIS project Dr Anderson's research is centered on unraveling the geologic history of Mars Brian Bue a Research Programmer in the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory he is now working on his Ph.D in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Rice University He received his M.S in Computer Science at Purdue University and a B.S in Computer Science and a B.A in Mathematics from Augsburg College in Minneapolis MN His research interests include knowledge-based vision and image processing machine learning pattern recognition scientific visualization remote sensing and applications in planetary science andphysics Michele Judd P.E OASIS Research Manager and senior technical staff member of JPL's Science Division Ms Judd received her B.S in Petroleum Engineering from Stanford University and her M.L.A from Southern Methodist University She has been the Technical Task Manager of the QuakeSim Project and the SERVOGrid Project She has twice chaired the JPL Research and Technology Development Poster Session A nationally certified Quality Manager and licensed Professional Engineer Ms Judd has over 20 years of experience in project management both within JPL andfor Mobil Oil 11 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


