Big Data will have a profound impact for the future of science and technology and economic development. The direct purpose of doing scientific research on Big Data is rapidly obtaining valuable information from a variety of types of data Study on effective and simple data representation method is one of the technical problems which must be solved in the network 
Abstract 
A Data Modeling Approach for Electronic Document based on Metamodel  Ming Zhe, Kang Ruihua School of Computer Hubei University of Technology Wuhan, China mzh116@126.com  
big data processing. This paper proposes a big data modeling method of oriented electronic document. The core of this method is representing knowledge of electro nic document and building Big Data model of electronic document using of ontology metamodel architecture 
I 
 
Keywords-Big Data;ontology;mode ling;electronic document 
 I NTRODUCTION  The data-centric "Big Data" era has arrived and the study on Big Data will become an important research direction of computer science for next period of time. United States 
Government vividly refers to Big Data as "the future of the new oil". Big Data will have a profound impact for the future of science and technology and economic development. The scale of having the data will become an important part of overall national strength as well as the ability to use the data in a country, and the possession of the data and control capabilities will also be a new standard for the measure of inter-state and inter-enterprise competitivenes Internet of things, cloud computing, mobile internet, car networking, mobile phone, tablet PC, PC and a wide variety of sensors throughout all corners of the earth are data source or carrying the way. The direct purpose of doing scientific 
research on Big Data is rapidly obtaining valuable information from a variety of types of data. Big Data can be divided into big data technology, big data projects, big data science and big data applications. The features of Big Data can be summarized as four "V", namely Volume, Variety, Value, Velocity. These four characteristics can be understood as: first, the data volume is huge, jumping from TB to PB; second, the data type is various, including blogs, videos, pictures, location information etc; third, the value density is low but the commercial value is high, such as surveillance video, potentially the useful data is only one or two seconds; fourth, the processing speed is quick 
following Second Law of Big Data In a variety of technical challenges in dealing with Big Data, a new data representation method that how to model Big Data is worthy of paying high attention, as it is the base understanding the meaning of the data and processing data. At present the method of representing data can not directly express the data itself significance. To effectively use the data and mining the knowledge, the most appropriate data representation should be found. If you want to find big data fixed pattern causality and correlation in one kind of inappropriate data representation, you may fall into inher representation method has a close relationship with initial data 
filler. If the original data is necessary for identification, it will greatly reduce the difficulty of the data identification and classification. However, causing the user so much trouble because of identifying the data is often not recognized by the users. Study on effective and simple data representation method is one of the technical problems which must be solved in the network big data processing In view of the above problems, this paper proposes a big data modeling method of oriented electronic document. The core of this method is representing knowledge of electronic document and building Big Data model of electronic document using of ontology meta-model architecture. Thus it can form a 
Big Data reduction of knowledge base of electronic document and lays a solid foundation to meet the high quality of personalized and diversified needs. And this paper achieves modeling process based on ontology meta-model architecture through the case II 
O NTOLOGY AND M ETA M ODEL F RAMEWORK  Ontology is formal and explicit specification of a shared conceptualization. The ontology we can define concepts and relationships among concepts. We can define the concept and 
 
r epresent the relations hip amon g the va rio u s c o nc epts t a kin g  advantage of ontology [3   Ont olog y is th e st u dy of the natu r e  of existence and its intrinsic relationship. The research object of ontology is the nature of existence and its internal relationship. In cognition, ontology is a set of concepts talking about within a certain range of knowledge with a granularity and a kind of semantic agreement they give 
 Ontology element modeling is a meta-theory, and it can unify understanding for a problem in the field of research, also 
 
A Ontology 
2013 International Conference on Computer Sciences and Applications 978-0-7695-5125-8/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CSA.2013.198 829 


Role-Goal-Process-Service meta-model of the relationship A domain modeling method O-RGPS for specific areas on the basis of RGPS meta-model framework was proposed under the guidance of ontology element modeling method. In ORGPS domain modeling method the basic output result of domain modeling is domain knowledge base, including domain ontology \(O\and the domain model \(RGPS\They are core assets in two areas. O represents domain ontology, including the domain entity ontology, domain operation ontology and domain situation ontology. The three categories ontology and their mutual semantic association ensure semantic collaboration between the domain models III 
      
1 Complete semantic interoperability 2 Partial semantic interoperability 3 No semantic interoperability B Meta-Model Framework A RGPS Association Meta Model B Electronic Document Modeling Process 
 
eliminate conflict and confusion of understanding because of different application backgrounds. Therefore, in the semantic services environment, ontology-based information model is suitable to solve problems of heterogeneous information and so on. The model can achieve communication and exchange between human and computer systems and among systems Semantic sharing and collaborative work can be well reflected in the model The ultimate goal of ontology element modeling is to achieve the semantic interoperability between various objects The standard measure of semantic interoperability is the semantic interoperability capabilities. Semantic interoperability capability refers to the ability exchanging the data of precise meaning between two objects, and the receiving side can accurately translate or convert the information carried by the data and the knowledge carried by the information. Namely information and knowledge can be understood, it brings about the result of an effective cooperative behavior finally, and the effectiveness confirmation of results is agreed by the two interoperable S e mantic interopera bili t y ca pabili t y is divided into the following three levels It is also known as deep semantic interoperability. In other words both parties fully understand the semantics of the agreement Both parties only can understand the part semantic of the agreement It appears no semantic interoperability including syntax \(or structure\nteroperability, when semantic interoperability capabilities below a certain threshold RGPS meta model framework is composed by the meta model of four levels including Role-Goal-Process-Service namely, Role layer, Goal layer, Process layer, Service layer RGPS meta-model framework is able to provide strong support for interoperability through the association between the four The hierarchical relationship between RGPS meta-model is shown in Figure 1. The modeling process based on RGPS starts on the analysis of the organizational structure of the demand problem space and ends on generating the solutions based on service by mapping and transformation between levels. Role layer meta-model describes organizations, roles, participants and their interaction in the space. Goal layer meta-model depicts a process refining the user's goal layer by layer, and determines the relationship of mutual restraint between the objecti Proc ess l a yer m eta-m odel descr i bes the p r o c ess used to achieve their goals, and defines the control structures of the process, input or output as well as pre or post conditions Service layer meta-model pictures the service chain structure used to implement the process and polymerization of the resources needed, and provides service-based implementations for the userês needs  Figure 1 E LECTRONIC D OCUMENT M ODELING M ETHOD  Role assumes appropriate role goal. Actor prefers his own personal goal. Process of goal decomposition ends until acquiring operability goals. Process can achieve those operability goals, and also be completed through cooperation between processes. Service can perform the corresponding process, and achieve those objectives In order to facilitate service selection, the association rules between RGPS should be registered in each registered base Role, goal, process and the correspondingly multiple constraints between services should also be maintained. These constraints can be used to check whether or not the registration information is in the approved status. When the corresponding constraint relationship \(relationship between models satisfied, the corresponding registration information is in the approved status. A service can only achieve a goal. When we register the service in the registration database, the service can still be registered in an unauthorized state, although the corresponding goal instance does not exist. Only when the corresponding goal instance exists and the relationships between them have been established, the corresponding registration information is only in an approved status. The registration information satisfying the constraint relationships benefit searching candidate services to meet userês needs according to the association rules between RGPS Under the guidance of RGPS requirements meta-modeling framework, the electronic document modeling process can be regarded as a demand-driven modeling process. This process includes the following stages: first, role and goal extraction of domain specific; second, process analysis of application specific; third, extracting ontology of electronic document in 
 
830 


The role and goal layer model of e-government use case 
     
1 Role and Goal Extraction of Domain Specific 2 Process Analysis of Application Specific 3 Extracting Ontology of Electronic Document in Specific Areas A Role and Goal B Analysis of housing transfer process 
 
specific areas. This process is not a one-way process, but is a process which needs to interactive feedback and iteration with the users The guidance of role layer meta-model is reflected in describing organization, role and their interaction and collaboration in the demand problem; guiding to extract business rules in the demand problem; portraying the personal goal of actor-participants of role; describing the organizational responsibility which the role should bear. The analysis of role layer occupies an important basic position in RGPS element modeling frame ause role re fle cts th e i n fo r m a t i o n which interrelates with the userês organization, this information plays a crucial role for ensuring the completeness and consistency of requirements. When the user proposes requirements, the userês role should be first cleared. Then according to his role we infer role objectives to improve the user's needs, which some users have not yet made, but which is also communal in such roles The guidance of goal layer meta-model is reflected in guiding to distinguish the type of destination, such as functional goal, non-functional goal and operational goal directing goal to decompose longitudinally; instructing to define the horizontal restraints relationship between goals clearing the relationship with the elements of role layer model and further inducting to the process layer modeling The guidance of process layer meta-model is reflected in distinguishing the combinational process and atomic processes determining the quality expectations of the process; guiding construction of the composite process on the basis of control structure; clearing input and output of the process as well as pre and post conditions The role of ontology is reflected in: ontology as requirements specification. In other words, we establish ontology in specific areas, and provide knowledge base using the ontology for creating needs of multiple goal application system. In this case, ontology can be seen as a common domain m As t h e basis of  est a bl is hing requirem ent specification of application system and system development in field, the reuse of knowledge can be performed In the domain modeling methods of RGPS, the basic output result is the domain knowledge base for domain modeling including the domain ontology \(O\he domain model RGPS\resents domain ontology, including the domain entity ontology, domain operation ontology and domain situation ontology. The three categories ontology and their mutual semantic association ensure semantic collaboration between the domain models. Because web service is the basic units of network-based software, the structure of ontology must be taken into providing needs of semantic support for the web service. The relevant ontology in web service demands to define service parameters \(data structure\ and the type of service functions. In addition, the structure of ontology must also be taken into the need of modeling. In the goal modeling functional goals include three basic components: operation object and method. The operation is the concept of the verb in the field, and the object is the concept of the noun in the field IV C ASE S TUDY  In e-government there are many relevant electronic documents. There are two roles which are called the buyer and seller, the buyer is required by law to housing ownership transfer to the seller. The whole process of implementation involves a large number of electronic document, such as: the transfer of relevant laws and regulations, various document and a copy of the registration form, and so all kinds of information In this use case involves major roles include the buyer seller, official and so on. Buyer and seller in the process of civil service completed all housing transfer process and ultimately achieved the housing transfer targets under the guidance and assistance. In order to get the role of the egovernment application scenario and target models,O-RGPS domain modeling tool was used,shown in Figure 2   Figure 2 Since the goal layer has a decomposition of the goals indicating the dependencies between the goals and therefore can be easily obtained in the process housing transfer layer model, shown in Figure 3 
 
831 


E-government process layer model Domain ontology model V Guo-Jie Li, çThe scientific value of big data,é China Computer Society Communications, 8\(9\, 2012, pp.8-15  Cox, Michael, and David Ellsworth, çManaging big data for scientific visualization,é ACM Siggraph, Vol. 97. 1997  Howe, Doug, et al, çBig data: The future of biocuration,é Nature 455\(7209\ 2008,pp. 47-50  Cuzzocrea A, Song I Y, Davis K C, çAnalytics over large-scale multidimensional data: the big data revolution!é Proceedings of the ACM 14th international workshop on Data Warehousing and OLAP ACM, 2011, pp.101-104  Wang J, He K, Gong P, et al, çRGPS: A unified requirements metamodeling frame for networked software,é Proceedings of the 3rd international workshop on Applications and advances of problem frames ACM, 2008, pp.29-35  Aﬂmann, Uwe, Steffen Zschaler, and Gerd Wagner, "Ontologies, metamodels, and the model-driven paradigm." Ontologies for Software Engineering and Software Technology, Springer Berlin Heidelberg 2006, pp.249-273  Hepp M, Bachlechner D, Siorpaes K, çOntoWiki: community-driven ontology engineering and ontology usage based on Wikis,é Proceedings of the 2006 international symposium on Wikis, ACM, 2006, pp.143-144  Krummenacher, Reto, and Thomas Strang, çOntology-based context modeling,é Proceedings Third Workshop on Context-Aware Proactive Systems, 2007 
C Electronic Document  Ontology 
          
  
 Figure 3 In RGPS domain ontology, there are entity ontology and operating ontology. Entity ontology describes the concepts and entities in the field of semantic relationship. Operating ontology defines the operational and functional concepts and their semantic relationships On the one hand, the concept of physical entities can be used as the data type of the service parameters, and the operating concept of the types of services can be provided. On the other hand, for the three elements of the functional objectives <operation, objects, methods>, the operation is the operation of the core concepts of the ontology, and the object is the core concepts. Thus, you can ensure that the target matching accuracy and completeness through semantic support of two types of ontology during the target search and matching ProtÈgÈ is used to model the ontology. ProtÈgÈ is a widely used ontology editing tool. It is an open source and Java-based Semantic Web ontology editor which provides an extensible architecture that allows user to create customized applications Electronic document associated with the domain ontology are constructed, shown in Figure 4  Figure 4 R ELATED W ORKS  Parallel database originated in the 1980s, and it was supported by standard SQL and realized the many advanced technologies over the past 30 years. Parallel database used shared nothing architecture and divided relational tables between nodes horizontally. The goal of parallel database is high performance and high availability MapReduce was proposed in 2004 by Google for Big Data programming model. Initially MapReduce was mainly used for Internet data processing, such as document capture, inverted index creation, but now it is widely used in the machine learning, data mining, data analysis, and other fields because of its simple yet powerful data processing interface and massively parallel execution. MapReduce data processing tasks will be abstracted as a series of Map and Reduce. Map is mainly for data filtering operation, Reduce mainly to complete the data gathering operation. Input and output data are <key, value format. Users simply follow their own familiar language to realize Map function and Reduce function, and MapReduce framework will automatically divide the tasks to be done in parallel VI C ONCLUSIONS  This paper presents a Big Data modeling method oriented electronic document, which is the core element model using ontology framework for knowledge representation of electronic document. Big Data model is built for electronic document thus forming a Big Data reduction electronic document repository, for high quality to meet customerês needs R EFERENCES   
 
832 


have to be rejected or accepted with constrains. The connection is called to be accep ted with constrains when  this connection has to reduce its transmission requirements if it wants to be admitted It is obvious, that there is strong relation between figures describing PDU dropping proba bility and admission control probability \(Fig. 11 and 12 It is clear to see, that no connection has to be rejected, just some of them are accepted with constrains on Figure 12. The PDU dropping probability is lower than 1.5% in this case In comparison with Table I which describes various service types, most of them have 1 tolerance of dropped PDU. It can be said, that transmission meets the requirements. This simulation has shown that most of the connections have throughput about 200Kbit/s and lower SNR was between 14-22 and delay about 200ms. These values allow all connections to be accepted. There are no big deviations, which could cause rejection Fig. 11 PDU dropping probability with increasing number of connection in case, when no connection has to be rejected Fig. 12 Admission control probability with increasing number of connections in case, when no connection has to be rejected The second case presents rejection of 14th connection because of its poor channel quality. Additional input values of this connection have average distribution without bigger deviation, so itís obvious, that the poor channel quality causes rejection of 14th connection Fig. 13 PDU dropping probability with increasing number of connection in case, when one connection has to be rejected Fig. 14 Admission control probability with increasing number of connections in case, when one connection has to be rejected Fig. 15 Mean SNR dependence on increasing number of connections Connection rejection can be also caused by low delay requirement, when additional input values are without high deviations as it is shown on figures below Note that, extreme values can cause connection rejection only in case, when the cell needs to avoid congestion. It is important to know, that the cell serves several connections which have been accepted before and they have to be treated on the basis of agreed quality of service. New connection cannot affect ongoing connections The third typical case of connection rejection is high transmission rate. This case is clear and so it is not presented in this article  0  2  4  6  8  10  12  14  16  18  20  0  0.005  0.01  0.015  PDU dropping probability with increasing number of connections Number of connections PDU dropping probability                  0     2     4     6     8     10     12     14     16     18     20     0.5     0.55     0.6     0.65     0.7     0.75     0.8     0.85     0.9     0.95     1          Admission control probability with increasing number of c onnections Number of connections Admission control probability                  0     2     4     6     8     10     12     14     16     18     20     0     0.1     0.2     0.3     0.4     0.5     0.6     0.7     0.8     0.9     1          PDU dropping probability with increasing number of connections Number of connections PDU dropping probability                  0     2     4     6     8     10     12     14     16     18     20     0.1     0.2     0.3     0.4     0.5     0.6     0.7     0.8     0.9     1          Admission control probab ility with increasing number of connections Number of connections Admission control probability                  0     2     4     6     8     10     12     14     16     18     20     8     10     12     14     16     18     20     22     24          Mean SNR dependence on number of connections Number of connections Mean SNR EuroCon 2013 ï 1-4 July 2013 ï Zagreb, Croatia 978-1-4673-2232-4/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 435 


Fig. 16 PDU dropping probability with increasing number of connections in case, when one connection has to be rejected Fig. 17 Required delay dependence on increasing number of connections VI  C ONCLUSION Each admission control model should meet connection requirements, prevent congestion and provide bandwidth efficiency with low computation complexity. It can be concluded, that all of these requirements were met. Incoming connections were evaluated individually according to their type of service. Final decision was made based on the number of necessary subchannels and real-time cell load. The system performance evaluation is based on PDU dropping probability throughput and average delay. Simulations of PDU dropping probability reached really low values, which means, that simulation proved that connection requirements were met  In case, where the cell was close to congestion and some of the incoming connections required extreme parameter values, such as high transmission rate, low SNR or delay requirement, these connection requests had to be rejected  Fuzzy logic as admission control method brings big advantages. Model like this can be implemented in to various network service types. In comparison to method based on measurements, fuzzy logic is much more flexible and has lower computation complexity. In most cases, the channel is described by inaccuracy parameters. Another admission control methods cannot calculate and make decision with this inaccuracy. It gives good results with high efficiency and application flexibility, which is the main feature of fuzzy logic Sem mozno este nejaka veta co by sa dalo zlepsit do buducna A CKNOWLEDGMENT Research described in the paper was done within grants No 1/0961/11 and 1/0529/13 of the Slovak Grant Agency VEGA R EFERENCES 1  IEEE 802.16 Broadband Wireless Networks,î IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 55, no. 11,. pp. 1473-1488, Nov 2006 2  Recommendation G.1010: End-User Multimedia QoS Categories INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION. ITU-T 2002 3  A. Garhwal, P. P. Bhattacharya, ìFuzzy Logic Base Channel Estimation and Performance Analysis of WiMAX Systems Journal of Emerging Trends in Computing and Information Sciences, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 334-338, March 2012 4  D. Niyato and E. Hossain Resource Allocation and Admission Control Using Fuzzy Logic for OFDMA-Based IEEE 802.16 Broadband Wireless Networks ser WiMAX: Technologies Performance Analysis, and QoS, CRC Press 5  D. Chajed and T. J. Lowe Little s Law ser. Insights from Basic Operations Management Models and Principles, Massachusetts Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2008 6  S. Lu. Markov, ìModulated Poisson Processes and their Applications to Deep Earthquakes,î M. Eng. Thesis, Victoria University of Wellington. ,September 2009 7  K-W. Yip and TS.. Ng, ìA Simulation Model for Nakagami m Fading Channels, m<1,î IEEE Transactions on Communications vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 214-221, Feb. 2000 8  D. Niyato and E. Hossain, ìA Queuing Theoretic and Optimization-Based Model for Radio Resource Management, in 9  D. Niyato and E. Hossain, ìJoint Bandwidth Allocation and Connection Admission Control for Polling Services in IEEE 802.16 Broadband Wireless Networks,î IEE E ICC 2006 Proceedings, vol. 12., pp. 5540-5545, Jun 2006   D. Niyato and E. Hossain, ìA Radio Resource Management Framework for IEEE 802.16-Based OFDM/TDD Wireless Mesh Networksî in IEEE International Conference:, jun 2006  0  2  4  6  8  10  12  14  16  18  20  0  0.1  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  1  PDU dropping probability with increasing number of connections Number of connections PDU dropping probability                  0     2     4     6     8     10     12     14     16     18     20     140     160     180     200     220     240     260     280          Required delay dependence on number of connections Number of connections Required delay EuroCon 2013 ï 1-4 July 2013 ï Zagreb, Croatia 978-1-4673-2232-4/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 436 


  
1 M Monte leo ne Lessicogra f ia  e d i zio n ar i e l e ttronici Dagli us i linguistici alle basi di dati lessicalié, Fiorentino & New Technology Napoli, 2002  J  Monti  M ulti-word uni t pr ocessing in Machine  Tra n s l a t i o n developing and using language resources for multi-word unit processing in Machine Translationé, PhD dissertation, University of Salerno, Italy, 2013 21 D  W  Oard  Multilingual Information Access in Encyclopedia of Library and Information Sciences, 3rd Ed., edited by Marcia J. Bates Editor, and Mary Niles Maack, Associate Editor, Taylor & Francis 2009 2 A  P i r k o l a   T h e Effect s of Query Structire and Dictionary Setupsé, in Dictionary-Based Cross-language Information Retrieval. In W. Croft et al 21st Annual ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval SIGIR 2008 Melbourne Australia, August 24-28, 1998, pp.55-63  F Sadat A   Maeda et  al  A  Com b i ned  S t at is t i c a l Query T e rm Disambiguation in Cross-language Information Retrieval Proc. of the 13th Intêl Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications Aix-en-Provence France September 2002 pp 251255 2 X  Saral egi   M L de La calle Dictio nar y  an d  Mono lingual Corpus-based Query Translation for Basque-English CLIRé, 2010  M Sil b er z te i n D ictionnaires lectroniques et ana l ys e a u tom a ti q ue de textesé, Masson, Paris, 1993 2 I Szp ekto r I Daga n  A  L a vie D S h a c h a m  S W i ntner C ro ss Lingual and Semantic Retrieval for Cultural Heritage Appreciation Proc. of the ACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage Data, Prague, Czech Republic, 2007 2 S  Vie t r i  A Elia E  D'Ag o sti n o   Lexicon-gram m a r Electro n ic Dictionaries and Local Grammars in Italian, in Laporte, E., LeclËre C Piot M Silberztein M eds Syntaxe Lexique et LexiqueGrammaire Volume dÈdi  Maurice Gross Lingvisticae Investigationes Supplementa 24 John Benjamins Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 2004  M  Volk S  V int ar  a n d  P Bui t elaar  Ont ol o g i e s in  cross-l angua ge information retrieval Proc of WOW2003 Workshop Ontologiebasiertes Wissensmanagement\ Luzern, Switzerland, 2003  P Vosse n  A Sor o a  B Z a pirain G  Ri gau   C rossl in g u al  event mining using wordnet as a shared knowledge interfaceé, Proc. of the 6th Global Wordnet Conference, C. Fellbaum, P. Vossen \(Eds.\ Publ Tribun EU, Brno, Matsue, Japan, January 9-13,  2012, pp.382-390 3 M  Yapom o G Corp a s  a n d R M i t k o v   CLIR-an d  ont ology b ase d approach for bilingual extraction of comparable documentsé, The 5th Workshop on Building and Using Comparable Corpora,  2012 
731 


DATA AND APPLICATIONS masFlightís Data and Applications Platform Data Input Feeds Airport & Gate Status Multisource, real-time feeds Current Weather Global hourly conditions Forecast Weather Standard and severe forecasts Flight Schedules Whatís planned to operate Reference and Static Data Geospatial, airline, airport info Government Economic Data Revenue and audited data Secure U.S./Canada Radar Authorized direct access Other Airspace Data Satellite and transponder info In-House Servers For private govít feeds Cloud Warehouse Linked Information 60TB structured data Robots and Java Applications Secure External Network Automated collection 60TB s t ruc t ure d  OUR CLOUD-BASED DATA WAREHOUSE OUR CUSTOMER APPLICATIONS Web Application masflight.com Cloud Managed Database Hosting Dashboards Web Services HTML 5 / Ruby Analyst focused Customizable Fast deployment SaaS revenue model REST web services Feed internal systems Custom dashboards Flexible interfaces Virtual tables Updated in real time Bypass constraints Ultimate customization 


masFlight Platform MASFLIGHT PLATFORM Multisource, integrated airline operations data Our platform shows where, when and why problems occur  Examine diversions cancellations, delays and determine root causes  Deep-dive into airport gates, taxi times, and runway patterns  Analyze air space usage and air traffic management Planned Flight Schedules Multisource Flight Status Global Weather Data and Maps Airline Ops Data U.S. Radar Data Airline Fleet Information Airport Gate Terminal Data Airport Runway Data Key Partners and Suppliers 


Origin weather Origin information Operating airline Scheduled times Departure gate/time Taxi-out/takeoff times Arrival weather Destination information Landing/taxi times Arrival gate/time Diversion data Aircraft information Flight plan filed Actual path flown Congestion Weather diversions En-route times and fixes  KIAD V268 SWANN 1502Z 1550Z 1620Z END TO END CAPABILITY Big-Data Analytics Facilitates End-to-End Analysis A full picture of each flight is critical for analyzing operations Query flights from planned schedule through post-operation recovery Up to 500 data points per flight Other sources only offer limited, disaggregated and unformatted regional data 


A Global Solution COVERAGE North and South America EMEA and Asia White lines are flights in the masFlight platform from February 8, 2013 Yellow pins are weather stations feeding hour ly data to our platform Maps from Google Earth / masFlight masFlight tracks flights, airports and weather around the world  Global daily flight information capture  82,000 flights  350 airlines  1700 airports  Integrated weather data for 6,000 stations  Match weather to delays  Validate block forecasts at granular level  Add weather analytics to IRROPS review and scenario planning 


Example 1: Proposed FAA Tower Closures masFlight used big-data to link airport operations across three large data sets  Current and historical airline schedules  Raw Aircraft Situation Display to Industry \(ASDI\AA  Enhanced Traffic Management System Counts \(ETMS\Airport operations counts by type \(commercial, freight, etc TOWER CLOSINGS Dots indicate closures; Red dots have scheduled service Based on scheduled service March 1 7, 20 13; scheduled service includes scheduled charter flights, cargo flig hts, and passenger flights Dots  indicate  closures  Red  dots  have  scheduled  service Bas ed  o n sc h edu l ed  se rvi ce  M a r c h 1  7, 2013; scheduled se rvi ce includ es scheduled c harter fli g hts car g o fli g hts a nd passen g er fli g hts Findings: Proposed Tower Closings  From schedules database: 55 airports with scheduled passenger airline service  14 EAS Airports  From ASDI & ETMS: 10,600 weekly flights on a flight plan \(ex. VFR and local traffic  6,500 Part 91/125 weekly flights  4,100 Part 135/121 weekly flights  


Example 1: Big-Data Analytics Applied to ASDI and ETMS To Analyze Operations TOWER CLOSINGS  26 44 24 23 11 10 6 2 1 2 Up to 5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 40-45 45 Count of Airports Average Number of Daily Operations with a Flight Plan Filed Distribution of Airports By Average Number of ìDailyî Impacted Flights Airports Affected by Tower Closures Source: ASDI radar data ñ Part 91 151 flying and Part 135/121 flying March 1-7, 2013; masFlight analysis Note: Average ìdailyì operations based on 5-day week 


Example 2: Aviation Safety Causal Factor For example, consider the following ASRS report \(ACN 1031837 Departing IAH in a 737-800 at about 17,000 FT, 11 m iles behind a 737-900 on the Junction departure over CUZZZ Intersection. Smooth air with wind on the nose bearing 275 degrees at 18 KTS We were suddenly in moderate chop which lasted 4 or 5 seconds then stopped and then resumed for another 4 or 5 seconds with a significant amount of ri ght rollingÖ I selected a max rate climb mode in the FMC in order to climb above the wake and flight path of the leading -900 We asked ATC for the type ahead of us and reported the wake encounter. The 900 was about 3,300 FT higher than we were  Synopsis  B737-800 First Officer reported wake encounter from preceding B737-900 with resultant roll and moderate chop What causal factors can be identified from this narrative that could be applied to future predictive applications CAUSAL FACTORS Data-mining algorithms can mine the text of safety reports to obtain specific data that can be used to analyze causal factors  


Example 2: Identifying Causal Factors CAUSAL FACTORS  Indicators ñ Data Element Methods ñ Identifying Context and Causes  Time of day  Date range \(month day  Aircraft type  Fix or coordinates  Originating airport  Destination airport  Weather notes We pinpoint the sequencing of flights on the IAH Junction Seven departure \(at CUZZZ\the specified wind conditions to find cases wher e a B737-900 at 20,000 feet precedes by 11 miles a B737-800 at 17,000 feet  Search related data sets including ASDI flight tracks, local traffic and congestion  Weather conditions for alter native causes \(winds aloft shear and convecti ve activity  Airline specific informati on \(repeated occurrence of event in aircraft type Big data gives us visibility into contextual factors even if specific data points are missing such as a specific date or route Big-data analytics gives us insight into unreported factors as well 


Example 3: Correlating Utilization and Delays  60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 7 9 11 13 ONTIME DEPARTURE PERFORMANCE HOURS OF DAILY UTILIZATION 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 7.0 9.0 11.0 13.0 Narrowbodies By Day of Week 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 7.0 9.0 11.0 13.0 Widebodies by Day of Week Daily Utilization vs. On-time Departures January 2013 System Operations Correlation Coefficient -0.53 Includes AA, AC, AS B6 F9, FL, NK, UA, US VX and WN SOURCE masFlight \(masflight.com COMPARING OTP AND UTILIZATION 


 6.2 6.0 5.8 5.8 5.2 4.9 LGB JFK BOS MCO DCA FLL JetBlue Focus Average Daily Deps per Gate Used UTILIZATION BY HUB Example 4: Daily Utilization of Gates, by Hub Big-data analysis of different carriers daily departures per gate used SOURCE masFlight \(masflight.com June 1 through August 31, 2012 Gates with minimum 1x daily use 7.7 7.4 7.2 6.2 6.1 5.8 3.8 3.6 ORD LAX SFO EWR DEN IAH IAD CLE United Airlines Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.8 6.4 5.5 5.4 5.3 4.4 4.3 4.0 SEA SAN PDX ANC SFO GEG LAX SJC Alaska Airlines Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.2 6.9 6.8 6.4 5.0 2.7 ORD DFW LAX LGA MIA JFK American Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.2 6.9 6.6 4.9 4.2 CLT DCA PHL PHX BOS US Airways Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 6.6 5.9 5.5 4.7 MCO BWI ATL MKE AirTran Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used ne pe 


Conclusions for Big Data in Aviation  Big-data transforms operational and commercial problems that were practically unsolvable using discrete data and on-premises hardware  Big data offers new insight into existing data by centralizing data acquisition and consolidation in the cloud and mining data sets efficiently  There is a rich portfolio of information that can feed aviation data analytics  Flight position, schedules, airport/gate, weather and government data sets offer incredible insight into the underlying causes of aviation inefficiency  Excessive size of each set forces analysts to consider cloud based architectures to store, link and mine the underlying information  When structured, validated and linked these data sources become significantly more compelling for applied research than they are individually  Todayís cloud based technologies offer a solution CONCLUSIONS 


Conclusions:  Our Approach  masFlightís data warehouse and analysis methods provide a valuable example for others attempting to solve cloud based analytics of aviation data sets  masFlightís hybrid architecture, consolidating secure data feeds in on-premises server installations and feeding structured data into the cloud for distribution, addresses the unique format, security and scale requirements of the industry  masFlightís method is well suited for airline performance review competitive benchmarking, airport operations and schedule design and has demonstrated value in addressing real-world problems in airline and airport operations as well as government applications CONCLUSIONS 





