 A Slim and Wide Multi Touch Tabletop Interface  and its Application s  Youngseok Ahn 1  Jun Lee 2  Hyungseok Kim 3  and Jee In Kim 3   Member, IEEE   1 Peratech  Seoul, Korea   2 Institute for Media Innovation, Nanyang Te chnological University, Singapore  3 Dep artment of  Internet and Multimedia  Engineering Konkuk University, Seoul  Korea Abstract   A  tabletop interface based on a large slim and wide  LED display  is proposed   The tabletop interface  use s  two  cameras with two  reflection mirrors  Its thickness is less than 8  inches and its size  is 47 inches  In order to recognize multi touch inputs and 
dragging  operations  the proposed system adopts  a hybrid recognition approach, which combines FTIR  Frustrated Total Internal Reflection\ and LLP  Lase r Light Plane The proposed tabletop interface has many  appl ications in   restaurant s  digital fashion  and  game s  The performance of the  proposed  system  was evaluated   It  show ed real time recognition of  multi touch inputs 1    Index Terms 227  Tabletop Interface, Multi t ouch Slim and Wide Display LED Multiple Cameras   I  I NTRODUCTION  M ulti touch interf aces are widely used in  various  digital devices   Most u sers like  to touch and drag  icons, menus and objects presented on 
 the multi touch screens of digital  devices   A tabletop interface is one  of  the popular  way s to implement  multi touch interfaces. A tabletop interface which  looks similar to  a table   allows multi touch interactions  of multiple users  A  tabletop interface is expected to be utilized in various application domain s such as  education, collaboration entertainment  and so on  in the future   1  A  tabletop interface  consist s  of a display screen and utilizes an infrared \(IR\ camera  to recognize  user inputs. A beam projector has been used to implement a large touch screen interface T he IR camera is located at a sufficient  focal distance so that the interface can  perceive its  entire touch area 
and the beam projector can display objects on the  large  display  screen  1  Therefore, the  tabletop had to be  thick  However a thick tabletop interface may not always be acceptable if its  user wants to sit down and stretch  his/her legs under the table top  Furthermore  relatively low resolution  images  may be produced depending  on  the image quality  of the beam projector   Therefore various methods have been suggested to re solve  the space constraints  2 5   Most of these methods provide d   Corresponding Author  1  YoungSeok Ahn  is with the Peratech  Korea  romansys@konkuk.ac.kr   Jun Lee is with the Institute for Media Innovation, Nanyang Technological 
University, 637553 Singapore leejun@ntu.edu.sg    H yungSeok Kim is with the Department of Internet and Multimedia Engineering, Konkuk University, Korea hyuskim@konkuk.ac.kr   Jee In Kim is with the Department of Internet and Multimedia Engineering Konkuk University, Korea \(correspondence to jnkm@konkuk ac.kr   tabletop interfaces with  relatively small displays   Their screen sizes \(mostly under 21 inches however  were  not  large enough  to be used as normal tables  In order to solve this issue  a special LED based tabletop  interf ace was develop ed   6   Since an  LED display provides an  infrared  light  per every pixel an LED based  tabletop interface can display high quality 
digital content  and precisely sense  IR lig ht simultaneously Furthermore, it will be  4  inches  thinner and  will also provide a 40 inch wide screen   6   However it will be very expensive and complex to implement because of  the  special LED screen with many sensors  The  proposed  large slim and wide  multi touch tabletop interface system offers hig h resolution images and improved  multi touch p erformance with a hybrid method  of user input recognition  The proposed system also presents software  architecture for enlarging the  screen size of the  tabletop interface to support the  seamless recognition of multiple touches and dragging operations captured by the connected multiple cameras of the tabletop interface   The proposed t 
abletop interface utilizes a 47   inch high definition \(HD\ LED display as its output display. To reduce the depth of the tabletop interface system a design  including  an optical reflection model including  dual IR cameras and reflection mirrors  is used  The proposed system also provides  a hybrid  recognition approach that combines the FTIR  Frustrated Total Internal Reflection\ method   7  an d th e L L P  Laser Light Plane\ method   8  to enhance the  user input recognition performance The main advantage of the proposed system  is that it provides a  slim multi touch tabletop interface based on a large HD screen  at  a reasonable cost   II  R ELATED W ORK S  A ta bletop interface system is equipped with  a  display on its top where multiple 
users can interact with digital content  present ed on the top display Va rious types of tabletop interface s  have been develo ped and install ed in various areas such as shopping mall s  exhibition hall s, restaurants and so on   Currently, m ost tabletop interfaces adopt IR  cameras and beam projectors to implement  wide touch screen s  S ufficient  distances and spaces are required to guarantee  the  optical path s  of these devices  A t least a 31  inch  depth is required between the beam projector and the  30 inch screen   1   Such a problem of guaranteeing distances has been regarded as  a major limitation in making more flexible designs of tabletop interfaces   276 


 In orde r to develop a slim tabletop interface, it is necessary to reduce the opt ical paths of projectors and cameras This still remains as a big challenge. ThinSight  2 M i g h t y T ra ce  3 and FLATIR  4 h av e an el ec tr o n ic b o ar d  a p h o to s en s o r  board for IR  emissi on and r eception placed behind a conven tional L CD screen. They have a thin  display  but their screen sizes are less than 21 inches. They are also complex and expensive to implement FiberBoard 5  introduced a new recognition method using fiber optics. It has a thin structure  and its screen size is 19 inches or less. The problem is that its  fiber optic array is complex and expensive  to build   It also has a small screen of 19 inches or less  To  re s o lve the  distance guarantee problem Microsoft proposed a special LED based table top interface   Since the special LED display provides infrared  light  per pixel, the tabletop interface can display digital information and sen se IR light s  by pixels simultaneously  6   Ahn et al proposed another slim tabletop interface using  multiple cameras and multiple  LCD displays 9  10   It  al so used dual mirrors to reduce its  thickness  The proposed  system  was  extended  by adopting a  tabletop interface using  a 47   inch screen and a recognition method combining  FTIR a n d LLP which enhanced recognition  performance   III  S YSTEM  A  Hardware  for Multi Touch Screen   Fig 1  shows the hardware structure of the proposed system Its  recognition method  combine s  the FTIR  method and the LLP  method  to increase sensitivity of its touch sensing components    Fig 1  H ardware structure    The proposed  system con tains two IR lights For  the  LLP recognition  four IR  laser emitting diodes are installed on its four corners on the  top  IR LED light strips which are 0.4  inch  thick  and attached on the sides of  the 47   inch HD LED display  are utilized as the  light source for  FTIR recognition  To recognize  IR lights   it  is modified by removing one of the sheet s  of the backlight unit of the LCD display  module   I n the proposed system  the modified 47 i nch HD LCD panel is used as the  output  display  component I ts LCD  backlight units are reconstructed so that it will be  able to pass IR  light s  generated from the hybrid optical setup   In  Fig  2   the  detailed structure of the modified  backlight unit  is illustrated   In order to recognize user 222 s touch inputs  the  reflection sheet  is removed  of the  backlight unit of the LCD module  as shown in Fig. 2 7     The  hardware  setup process  is presented in Fig. 3. In Fig 3.\(A   the result of removing the reflection sheet of the backlight  unit  and the guide panel from the L C D display module  in Fig. 2  is presented  as the first st ep  of the modification   Then  the acryl plate in Fig. 2.\(8  is replaced so that user inputs on the touch screen can be recognized by the IR cameras   Fig. 3.\(B\ shows the r esult  of the second s tep  After the modification of the L C D display  module  an IR  recognition system  is attached for the FTIR recognition  The  LED lights Fig. 2.\(2\\ are attached for the  FTIR based recognition. Fig. 3 C\ shows the results of building the touch screen in the third step  The acryl plate is  surrounded  by the LED lights   Finally, four LED laser  diode s  Fig. 2  1   are combined with the touch screen. Fig. 3.\(D\ shows the attached LED laser  diode s   Fig   2  The structure of the 47 inch L C D display module   1  4 LED l aser  emitting diode s for  the LLP  recognition   2  LED l ight  strip s for the FTIR  recognition  3  Acryl p ate is used as the  t ouch screen   4  LCD panel 5  Optical sheets 6 LED lights 7  Reflection sheet   8  Acryl plate     Fig   3  Hardware setup process \(A STEP 1 LED lights \(Fig   2 6   and the the reflection sheet  Fig   2.\(7 is  removed   B  STEP 2 Combine the  backlight unit  with the  replaced  a cryl  plate, the optical sheets \(Fig   2 5   and the L C D panel \(Fig 2 4  C STEP 3 Attach LED lights  Fig.  2.\(2  for FTIR recognition   D STEP 4 Attach LED l aser  diodes  Fig. 2.\(1 for LLP recognition    The laser light s shine just above  t he surface of the acrylic plat e while th e lights  from the LED strips travel inside the acrylic panel. When a user touches th e surface of the proposed tabletop interface the IR  lights from the IR  sources are scattered   as illustrated in Fig  4   and reflected by the two total reflection mirrors. The IR  cameras can detect the  reflected  IR  lights   One of well known  problem s  of  the FTIR method is that its  success ratio of recognition of dragging operations is low when users  move their fingers on the screen. In the LLP  277 


 method irregular noises  can occur   To solve these problems of low recognition ratio of dragging and irregular noises the proposed  recognition metho d combined  the FTIR method and  the LLP  method configured the hardware  settings   and adjusted their threshold values    Fig 4  When a user touches the screen  IR lights are scattered  and  recognized  by the system  L aser lights are also utilized. FTIR and LLP  are combined in  the  proposed hybrid  method  of recognition     Fig 5  Determination of the projected area according the height of the  tabletop interface  and  the  angle of the mirror  in the proposed system    T he recognition component utilizes  two IR cameras which are designed by considering optical characteristics  of reflection  as shown in Fig. 5   With t his configuration   the  component can recognize all touche s and dragging operations on the 47 inch table screen area  In order to reduce  the h eight  of the box of the tabletop interface 221 h 222  in Fig. 5 two cameras  and two inclined  mirrors  were used   as shown in Fig. 1 The  recognizable  area can be determined  from  the  height of the tabletop interface and the  angle of the mirror. Thus the proposed tab letop  reduce s  the  height when  the recognizable area is more than half of the original screen   as shown in Fig. 5. If the  height  221 h 222   and the  angle of the mirror  221 m 222  i n Fig. 5\ are defined, the  normal distance  221 d 222   from the camera to the  plane of the mirror  can be obtained And the  small  triangle  in Fig. 5  is surrounded by  three line segments   h  d  and x  in Fig. 5 and the  angle   221  222  is  computed  by  equation  1     90  m  1    To  calculate values of lines d  and x   trigonometric  function s were  used, as below in  equation \(2   d   h         221 h 222   the minimum width of the recognizable  area   221 r 222 a nd a sum  of two line  segment s   221 x 222  a nd 221 k 222  along the plane of the mirror Since another camera needs to recognize another area the mirror should be located under the touchscreen  of the tabletop interface  so that the sum  of two lines x and k is longer than the  length of the mirror  Third two similar triangles  are presented in Fig. 5  the  small one consists of  h, d  and  x  and the  large one of  r, k  and  d Since these triangles are similar   due to  their angles  being the same  the  value of  221 r 222  can be obtained which represents the width of the recognition area of the camera using proportional expression s  listed in equation \(3   x  d    h  r  x*r    d*h  r    d*h  x   3    Finally the value of r  can be obtained  by combin ing the equation  2\nd the equation  3  as presented in  the  equation 4    r  h tan 90        222 s angle of view and the m irror r eflectivity  Fig. 6  shows  the  inside structure of the proposed tabletop interface  In Fig  6.\(A\, two cameras are attached and two mirrors are deployed  at  around 30\260, and the minimum recognition area is about  60% of the area of the 47   inch touch screen   as shown in Fig. 6 B\ The height of the  proposed interface is  7.5 inches   as shown in Fig 6. \(C    Fig 6  The i nside of the hardware structure \(A\ IR  camera, \(B\ Two mirrors  C\e height of the tabletop is measured  as  7.5 inches    B   User Inputs  Recognition Software   Fig 7 IR images r ecognized  by  two cameras \(A\e  left side camera B the  right side camera   278 


  Fig 8  The software architecture     Fig 9  GUI of MTView    Fig. 7 shows  IR images of two cameras of the tabletop interface. Since the proposed tabletop interface used a convex lens and inclined mirrors, perspective distortions  as shown in both Fig. 7.\(A\ and Fig. 7.\(B\ occur red The  distortion problem made  it difficult to compute the correct positions of user inputs on the screen In order to  solve the perspective distortion  problem of image s  and seamlessly recognize correct touch positions and traces o f dragging operations on the  screen it is essential to design and develop a software tool for  process ing  image data from the multiple  IR cameras of the tabletop interface  and computing correct posit ions and traces  of user inp uts The software architecture is  show n  in Fig   8  The proposed software c onsists of a multi touch recognition library for clients  called MTView   Multi Touch View   and a concurrent management server   MTView is a  unit of a multi touch processing library. It contains  a recognition algorithm  of multi touch input images  from a camera   a gesture recognition algorithm  and TCP/IP communication  modules   as shown in Fig   8 When the proposed  tabletop interface receives  multi touch i mages, it uses various image processing filters to optimize the multi touch outputs The image processing filters are dependent on external conditions  such as what of the camera, e x ternal lights and the size s  of screens. MTView  thus provides GUI to control the thresholds  of the proposed system as  shown in Fig 9   The threshold values can be adjusted during the  calibration stage of the tabletop interface   When users touch the proposed  tabletop interface, e ach client recognizes multi touch information such as position s  and gestures by processing the touch image from each IR  camera. Then, the concurrent  server aggregates  the touch information from each client to create a single unified set of touch input data. The concurrent serve r then sends out the unified touch information  to applications   Fig 10  The o verlapped area of  the IR cameras during recognition of  user inputs  on the proposed tabletop interface   T he  prop o s ed system offers  a large area  for  user interactions such as multiple touches and dragging operations Therefore  a single  camera  may not cover the whole recognition area  If the proposed system  use s  two cameras for the recognition of the user inputs on the  shared regions of the display s there could be an overlapped region on the display where  interactions will  be recognized by the two cameras at the same time Since t he  221 r 222 value in Fig. 5 of each camera is larger than half of the recognition area of the tabletop, there is an  overlap ped area on the tabletop  as shown in Fig 10 Since the interface  is designed so that each  camera can cover more than  half  the screen area a touch  on the overlapped area will  be recognized by the two cameras at the same time T wo diffe rent position coordinates will  be generated by the two different cameras Therefore, a  way to determine a single position coordinate  for the single touch  s h ould be invented    I f    p 1 p 2 || < t   then   t is threshold value   0.001   d1  p1 c1 d2 = ||p2 c2   If  d1 < d2 then  select d1  Else if  d2 < d1 then  select d2   5    In order to solve this problem, the c oncurren t server uses an  algorithm that unifies  the duplicate coordinate values   as shown in Fig 11   First, the system deter mines whether the input position  is in the overlapped area. If the input touch 221 p 222  in Fig 1 0 is in the ovelapped area  according to eqution 5   the system will  have two position values 221 p1 222  and 221 p2 222  in Fig 10  from  221 C amera 1 222  and 221 C amera 2 222  respectively  Since  the  proposed s ystem  must  select one of them, it calculates the distances between  the two positions and the two camearas  221 d1 222   and 221 d2 222   using equation 6     d1  p1 c1    d2 = ||p2 c2   6   279 


 The distances  221 d1 222  and 221 d2 222  are compared and t he prop o sed system select s  the shortest one, because  a shorter distance  could probably be more accurate   A fter the calculation, the propos ed system stores the current input position value for the next process   The proposed system also interp olates the recognized positions when the selected area is changed   Fig 11  Al gorithm of unifying duplicate coordinate values  in the overlapped  area   IV  A PPLICATION  A  Restaurant   Fig 1 2  e Menu for a restaurant    In a restaurant, tables are used so that  customers can chat with friends, read menus, order dishes, put dishes and eat on them. Since the tabletop interface  is a 221 table 222 it can offer such important and basic function s  of a ta ble where  multiple users sit  around   talk and experience digital c ontent of menus games and so on Fig   1 2  illustrate s an 221 e Me nu 222  application  for a restaurant  The users can order dishes from the  e Menu on the tabletop interface as  shown in Fig   1 2 The  e Menu  content  can provide extra inf ormation about the selected dishe s such as description calories price s, and so on While the users wait for their ordered dishes, they can enjoy other digital content such as  travel information, games, and so on  B  Game  An interactive  game can be a good application of the  tabletop interface W h en people get toge ther beside a table they usually play games Since various multi touch gestures  can be used with  the tabletop interface  the proposed system can adopt  many  games  with touch gestures   such as puzzle matching game s  and  real time strategy game s   as shown in Fig 1 3   Such a game of natural  gesture based  interactions can be played  by many people who like simple and easy games. They can move their fingers, hands, and arms while they play the games. The actions required by the games are helpful for old people who need easy, simple and mild exercises and do not like complicated  mouse ac tions    Fig 13  A  puzzle matching game can be  played on the tabletop interface   V   E XPERIMENTS   The performance of  the proposed  system  was evaluated with the following quantitative measures real time interaction reco gnition speed and recognition accuracy    A  Real Time Interaction  The i nteraction performance of the proposed  system  was measured   Its a verage performance was measured to be around  60 fps \(frames per second with two IR cameras which provide d  640x480 pixels of resolution  with  a  2.8  G Hz  Quad Core CPU. The performance changed to 58 fps when 15 fingers touch ed  on the screen and 55 fps when 20 fingers touch ed  The results of the analysis showed that  as  the number of finger  touches  increased, the performance  of the system  s lightly decreased. However, the system still demonstrated  feasible performance for real time interaction   B  Recognition Speed  In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed recognition methods i.e. the hybrid method of FTIR  and LLP  a puzzle matching  game  as shown in Fig. 13  was used  In order to solve a puzzle  a  user must  touch two puzzle pieces  and drag the  two pieces  together to the center of the display to 280 


 match them One piece  shows  a word such as a pipe, a fan and so on and  the other piece shows the image corresponding to the word If the user can  find a  match, the user would get a score. The game completes when the user matches all combinations of words and images  on the display   T welve  subjects  experienced with  multi touch operations  were selected  T he subjects  were divided  into three small groups   and  the recognition tests  were carried out in random  to reduce  learning effects The subjects touched to select puzzle  pieces and  dragged the puzzle pieces  to match the selected word to  the selected image\. When they finish ed  the puzzle game   their playing times were measured for  three different recognition  approaches. Fig. 1 4  shows their  average complet ion  time s According to Fig. 1 4 the proposed  hybrid recognition  method  can reduce the average playing time by 20   Fig 1 4  A verage  time  required to  complete  the puzzle matching game for  different recognition methods: FTIR, LLP and the hybrid method    Friedman test s  were applied  on the evaluation results of Fig  14  for a statistical analysis   The results of the Friedman tests are described in Table 1 Because  the obtained value F\(Friedman Test Statistic is greater than the Chi Square the difference  among the recognition methods is statistically  significant   TABLE  I  R ESULTS OF F RIEDMAN TEST  N  Chi S quare  df  P Value  F  12  5.99  2  0.0 5  13.5   The  twelve subjects were interviewed after the experiments   where they used 221 touch 222  operations and 221 drag 222  operations  T hey mentioned that playing with the  FTIR method was  the most difficult because  the drag operations frequently failed during  the experiments They also found that  the touch operations were  more difficult   than the drag  operations  with the LLP method Most subjects were satisfied with the performance of the proposed  hybrid  method  VI  C ONCLUSION S  A  slim  and  large HD LED tabletop interface  using multiple IR cameras  and mirrors was proposed  U sers can sit down and stretch their legs below  this  less than 8 inches tabletop just  like a real table A  hybrid recognition method  of  the FTIR method and the LLP metho d  was  also proposed  The proposed  tabletop adopting  t he hybrid recognition method  was demonstrated and evaluated in  several applications   such as e Catalogue for digital fashion   e Me nu for a restaurant  and an interactive puzzle matching game  The experiment s for the evaluation of  the proposed h ybrid recognition method were performed using  a  puzzle matching game. The  results demonstrated  the feasibility and the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid  recognition method  The results  also showed the expandability  of the method  because of its real time interaction and recognition accuracy    In future work s  the authors plan to modularize  the software  and hardware of the tabletop interface so that they may be  reconfigurable  Though modularization, a set of tabletop interface modules may be combined as desired to  extend and reconfigure the  tabletop interface  as a  huge  table or a huge wall display   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This paper was supported by Konkuk University in 2013    R EFERENCES    J. Schoning, J. Hook, N. Motamedi, P. Olivier, F. Echtler, P. Brandl, L Muller, F. Daiber, O. Hilliges, M. Lochtefeld, T. Roth, D. Schm idt and U Zadow   Building i nteractive multi touch surfaces   Journal o f Graphics, GPU, and Game Tools   vol  14 no. 3  pp 35 55   Nov   2009    R   Hofer, P   Kaplan, and A   Kunz   223 MightyTrace: multiuser tra cking technology on lc displays  224  In  Proc   of the twenty sixth annual SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems  Florence  Italy  pp 215 218 Apr. 2008    S   Izadi S   Hodges, A   Butler, A   Rrustemi, and B   Buxton  224 ThinSight integrated optical multi touch sensing th rough thin form factor displays  224  In P roc   of the 2007 workshop on Emerging displays technologies images and beyond: the future of displays and interaction  San Diego  USA, Article 6   2007     R   Hofer, D   Naeff, and A   Kunz  224 FLATIR: FTIR multi touch detection on a discrete distributed sensor array  224  In Proc   of the 3rd International Conference on Tangible and Embedded Interaction  Regent, United Kingdom  pp 317 322 Feb 2009     D   Jackson, T   Bartindale  and  P   Olivier  223 FiberBoard  compact multi touch display using channeled light  224  In Proc   of the 2009 ACM International Conference on Interactive Tabletops and Surfaces  Calgary  Canada  pp. 25 28,  Nov. 2009     Y  Wang, KE  Williamson, PJ  Kelly, JA  James  and  PW  Hamilton   223 SurfaceSlide: A Multit ouch Digital Pathology Platform  224  PLoS ONE  vol 7  no 1  e30783 Jan. 2012     J. Han 223 Low cost multi touch  sensing through frustrated total internal reflection 224  In Proc   of the 18 th  annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology  Seattle USA, pp. 115 118, Oct. 2005     J. Park and T. Han, "LLP+: multi touch sensing using cross plane infrared laser light for interactive based displays    I n  Proc. of the  ACM  SIGGRAPH Posters  Los A n geles USA, Article 89  Jul  2010     YS   Ahn, HS   Kim, M G  Lim, J   Lee, and JI   Kim   223 A slim tabletop interface based on high resolution LC D screens with multiple cameras  224  In Proc. of the ACM International Conference on Interactive Tabletops and Surfaces  ITS '10    Saarbr\374cken, Germany  pp 241 242 Nov  2010     YS. Ahn, J. Lee, W. Kim, J.I. Kim, W. Chang, H.S. Kim and J. Park 223 A slim hybrid multi touch tabletop interface with a high definition LED display and multiple cameras 224  In Proce edings of the 2012 IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics\(ICCE 221  12  LasVegas, USA,  pp. 221 222,  J a n. 2012     C.K. Park, Y.S. Park, H.J. Jeon, S.M. Kim and J. Koh  223 Implementation of i Fashion  224  In Proc. of The 5th Internati onal Conference on Mass Customization and Personalization  Match Making  Helsinki, Finland  pp. 315 325,  Oct. 2009   281 


               


       


   


              


        


              


           


                    


         


           


         


Emerging Topics—Co-Chairs: Theresa Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba Introduction to Emerging Topics Minitrack 1895 Theresa A. Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba A Framework for Benchmarking Open Government Data Efforts 1896 Djoko Sigit Sayogo, Theresa A. Pardo, and Meghan Cook Finding Needle in the Case-Stack: Effective Remote Monitoring of Courts 1906 Amn Rahman, Hassan Nawaz, Omer Naeem, Fareed Zaffar, Farooq Naseer, and Adeel Zaffar The Orientation-Maturity Framework for Understanding the E-Government Key Issues in China 1916 Zhang Nan, Yin Cong, Meng Qinguo, and Guo Xunhua E-Government Education—Co-Chairs: Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies Introduction to E-Government Education Minitrack 1926 Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies E-Government at Work Level: Skilling or De-skilling 1927 Tino Schuppan The Project TEDS@wildau: TEDS Framework Integration into the Moodle Platform for User-Specific Quality Assurance of Learning Scenarios 1935 Margit Scholl, Peter Ehrlich, Andreas Wiesner-Steiner, and Denis Edich ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster, and Catastrophe Management—Co-Chairs: Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Introduction to ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster and Catastrophe Management Minitrack 1946 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J. Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Sandy Tweets: Citizens’ Co-Production of Time-Critical Information during an Unfolding Catastrophe 1947 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Hans Jochen Scholl, and Uuf Brajawidagda Feelings and Perspective Matter: Sharing of Crisis Information in Social Media 1958 Rongjuan Chen and Yasuaki Sakamoto Social Media and Emergency Management: Exploring State and Local Tweets 1968 Lemuria Carter, Jason Bennett Thatcher, and Ryan Wright Table-Top Exercises for Emergency Management: Tame Solutions for Wicked Problems 1978 Svante Edzén Infrastructure Security—Co-Chairs: Wm. Arthur Conklin, Ray Vaughn, and Gregory White Introduction to Infrastructure Security Minitrack 1986 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Gregory B. White, and Rayford B. Vaughn Jr Designing a Formal Model Facilitating Collaborative Information Sharing for Community Cyber Security 1987 Wanying Zhao and Gregory White Municipal E-Government Security: Insights from a Study of Orange County, California 1997 Timothy J. Perez 
xxii 


Re-engineering Cybersecurity Education in the US: An Analysis of the Critical Factors 2006 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Raymond E. Cline, and Tiffany Roosa Security Analysis of Selected AMI Failure Scenarios Using Agent Based Game Theoretic Simulation 2015 Robert K. Abercrombie, Bob G. Schlicher, and Frederick T. Sheldon Unintentional Insider Threat: Contributing Factors, Observables, and Mitigation Strategies 2025 Frank L. Greitzer, Jeremy Strozer, Sholom Cohen, John Bergey, Jennifer Cowley Andrew Moore, and David Mundie Open and Participatory Government—Co-Chairs: Scott Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitch Cochran Introduction to Open and Participatory Government Minitrack 2035 Scott P. Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitchell Cochran A Proposed Standard Procedure to Define Minimum Scanning Attribute Levels for Hard Copy Documents 2036 Mitchell Cochran Active Citizen E-Participation in Local Governance: Do Individual Social Capital and E-Participation Management Matter 2044 Jooho Lee and Soonhee Kim Participatory Budgeting: A Framework to Analyze the Value-Add of Citizen Participation 2054 Catherine G. Mkude, Cristina Pérez-Espés, and Maria A. Wimmer Public Participation GIS: The Case of Redistricting 2063 Micah Altman and Michael P. McDonald The Challenges of Challenge.Gov: Adopting Private Sector Business Innovations in the Federal Government 2073 Ines Mergel, Stuart I. Bretschneider, Claudia Louis, and Jason Smith The Impact of the Transparency Policy on University Students’ Trust and Intention of Continued Use 2083 Ramón Rufín Moreno and Cayetano Medina Molina Open Data and Cloud Services—Co-Chairs: Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Introduction to Open Data and Cloud Services Minitrack 2093 Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Applying Design Patterns in URI Strategies—Naming in Linked Geospatial Data Infrastructure 2094 Sonya Abbas and Adegboyega Ojo Dynamic Capabilities for Information Sharing: XBRL Enabling Business-to-Government Information Exchange 2104 Marijn Janssen and Yao-Hua Tan Evaluating Second Generation Open Government Data Infrastructures Using Value Models 2114 Yannis Charalabidis, Euripides Loukis, and Charalampos Alexopoulos From the Ground to the Cloud—A Structured Literature Analysis of the Cloud Service Landscape around the Public and Private Sector 2127 Steffi Haag, Andreas Eckhardt, and Julia Krönung 
xxiii 


Having the Mind in the Cloud: Organizational Mindfulness and the Successful Use of Desktop as a Service 2137 Sabine Dernbecher Policies and Governance for the Network Society—Co-Chairs: Peter Parycek, Antonio Cordella, and Frank Bannister Introduction to Policies and Governance for the Network Society Minitrack 2147 Peter Parycek, Frank Bannister, and Antonio Cordella Legitimate E-Government—Public E-Services as a Facilitator of Political Legitimacy 2148 Elin Wihlborg The Public Procurement of IS—A Process View 2158 Carl Erik Moe and Mike Newman The Role of ICTs in Adaptive and Persistent Authoritarianism: A Study of China at the Administrative Division Level 2168 Qinfeng Zhu and Marko M. Skoric Services and Information—Co-Chairs: L. Christian Schaupp, Lemuria Carter, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazan Introduction to Services and Information Minitrack 2178 Lemuria Carter, Ludwig C. Schaupp, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazán E-Government Web Portal Adoption: A Service Level and Service Quality Perspective 2179 Xiao Jiang and Shaobo Ji Explanation of Public Private Partnership \(PPP Perspective 2189 Ramesh Narasimhan and Madhuchhanda Das Aundhe Motivations, Deployment, and Assessment of Taiwan’s E-Invoicing System: An Overview 2200 Yuh-Jzer Joung, Yen-Chung Tseng, Shih-Chao Cha, Nai-Wei Lo, Gary Chung, and Chun-Kun Liu The Role of Familiarity or Experience in Generating Trust and in Its Impact on Continued Use 2210 Cayetano Medina Molina and Ramón Rufín Moreno Social Media and Social Networking and Government—Co-Chairs: Suha AlAwadhi, Jay Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Introduction to Social Media and Social Networking and Government Minitrack 2220 Suha Alawadhi, Jay P. Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Application of Web 2.0 Technologies in E-Government: A United Kingdom Case Study 2221 Uthayasankar Sivarajah, Zahir Irani, and Stephen Jones Crowdsourcing Hazardous Weather Reports from Citizens via Twittersphere under the Short Warning Lead Times of EF5 Intensity Tornado Conditions 2231 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield and Uuf Brajawidagda My Name Is Khan: The Use of Twitter in the Campaign for 2013 Pakistan General Election 2242 Saifuddin Ahmed and Marko M. Skoric 
xxiv 


Transformational Government—Co-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, César Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad Røberg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems Track—Co-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and Policy—Chair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Göran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologies’ State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catalão, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Göran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources—Chair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fernández Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark O’Malley Monitoring, Control, and Protection—Chair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. Domínguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan “Mani” Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient Networks—Chair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation Tool—C GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare Track—Co-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics—Co-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cláudia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and Applications—Co-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health Informatics—Co-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, Jørgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, José A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fernández, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge Planning—Experiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara Eriksén Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and Analysis—Co-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare—Co-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physicians’ Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn O’Mara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy Paré, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klöcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments—Co-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Sönke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim O’Donoghue, Noel O’Kelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Köhler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patients’ Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, Tülay Özata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare—Co-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy Track—Co-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience—Co-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?—A Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumers’ Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alahäivälä, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Keränen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic Marketing—Co-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and Chasing—The Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individuals’ Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Aren’t the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research—Co-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employees’ Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jörg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten Öksüz, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital Economy—Co-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on Purpose—Factors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open Communities—Co-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire It’s Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel André Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society—Co-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltrán Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltrán An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual Use—Empirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rönkkö, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems Track—Co-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs—Co-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing System—A Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimarães, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems—Co-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo Käköl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo Käköl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research—Co-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and Security—Co-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero Päivärinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge Economics—Co-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange—Co-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individuals’ Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management—Co-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth Rodríguez, Jessica Díaz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Pérez, and Agustín Yagüe Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements—Co-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology Track—Chair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information Systems—Co-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo Käköl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmström, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropy’s Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data—Co-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo Bühnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges—Co-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Köppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre Métrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process Management—A Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Krüp, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jörn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerström, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process Intelligence—Co-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus Nüttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation—Co-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria Åkesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications Industry—An Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and Josée St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nöhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bjørn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce—Co-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 René Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developers’ Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionals’ Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers—Co-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements Uncertainty—A Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society—Co-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic Commerce—Evidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response—Co-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design—Co-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrödl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for Development—Co-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, François Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project Management—Co-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS Outsourcing—A Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its Mechanisms—Chair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. Maçada, and João Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology—Co-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the “Future School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems—Co-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria Åkesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network Organizations—A Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS Research—Co-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS Research—A Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology—Co-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT Outsourcing—A Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and Frédéric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality Management—An Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology Track—Co-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products—Chair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, Débora Martins, and Mariela Cortés Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software Engineering—Co-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar Rodríguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fernández-Sánchez, Jessica Díaz, Jennifer Pérez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice—Co-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian D’Orazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance—Co-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and Training—Co-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud Computing—Co-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data Protection—A Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management—Co-Chairs: Timo Käkölä and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo Käkölä and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 Agustín Yagüe, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Pérez, and Jessica Díaz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customer’s and the Vendor’s Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile Platforms—Co-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 Sébastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless Networks—Co-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jestädt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


