The Further Development of Weka Base on Positive and Negative Association Rules Yanguang Shen School of Information & Electronic Engineering Hebei University of Engineering Handan, China shenyanguang@yahoo.com Jie Liu School of Information & Electronic Engineering Hebei University of Engineering Handan, China jie5123261@sohu.com Jing Shen School of Information & Electronic Engineering Hebei University of Engineering Handan, China jinghuayuan007@sina.com Abstract This paper introduced the features, functions, and mining process of the open-source data mining platform of Weka. In order to overcome the weakness of the aspects of 
association rules in Weka system research, we used positive and negative association rules algorithm to embed into the Weka platform, and expanded the association rules algorithm under the open-source environment for the futher development. We contrasted and analyzed the embedded algorithm with the original algorithm of association rules taking full advantage of the functions of class and visualization in the open-source platform of Weka. This algorithm was made improvements in both extracting the explicit rules and fully mining the implicit rules. We carried out the experiment of public intelligence and information systems to obtain better results of association rules, and verified the good adaptability and scalability of the data mining platform of Weka based on 
the positive and negative association rules Keywords-data mining; association rules; positive and negative association rules; Weka; police intelligence and information I  I NTRODUCTION  Data mining is to mine implicit, previously unknown and the potential value to the decision-making knowledge and rules from a vast amount of data. With the continuously expanding of data mining market, the study concerning with data mining is constantly penetrated. Data Mining is a applied science, and a practical technology from the very beginning, so it’s very important to select the appropriate data mining tools in intelligence analysis of data mining on account of its strong experimental 
The tools of data mining have been gradually from research to the practical application during the development of 10 more years. At present, the more influential and typical data mining tools of the world are some softwares of data mining such as: SAS's Enterprise Miner, IBM's Warehouse Studio, SPSS Clementine, etc. [1  bu t th es e c o m m ercia l  data mining tools are of higher prices and can not be redeveloped. With the highest service awards in the field of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery won by Weka team of the University of Waikato, Weka system known as the milestone of data mining and machine learning in the history has been widely recognized. Now it is one of the most complete data mining tools, and has a very good application 
in the intelligent analysis Weka \(Waikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis is an open-source data mining platform, which integrates a large number of machine learning algorithms to take on the task of data mining, including data pre-processing association rules, classification, clustering, regression and a wealth of available visualization capabilities [2  M ean w h ile  because of its open-source code, Weka can be used not only to complete the regular task of data mining, but also to make use of Weka framework for further development using the java language. In this paper, we exploringly used positive and negative association rules algorithm embedded into the Weka, expanded the system functions under the open-source 
platform, and contrasted with the performance of the original association rules algorithm of the platform II  W EKA I NTRODUCTION  A  Weka and Its Functions The full name of Weak is Waikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis, The package of Weka can be downloaded from the website of Waikato University in New Zealand \(http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ ~ ml / weka /\he latest version number is 3.7.0 As a public work platform of data mining, Weka includs 10 java packages such as associations, classifiers, core filters, etc. The package of Core is the core of the Weka system, including some key categories such as Attribute 
Instances, etc [3   Wek a h a s  m o re th an 1 m illio n  lin es o f  codes in total. The two packages of Associations and Core are the main java packages to achieve the association rules algorithm, which contain 190 java source files Weka provides the following three main features   For the ordinary users who need analysis and application of data, Weka provides a friendly interactive interface. Users can choose different algorithms to apply to the data sets needed analysis through the graphical interface. Then the system will intuitively show up the results of the analysis in different ways   For the researchers who study the theory and application of data mining, Weka provides open 
source methods of learning and implementation achieves an attribute pre-processing tool which is called filters as well. Users don’t need to focus on some details of data processing in the process of achieving their own algorithms, and just need to achieve their own algorithms without the realization of all comparison algorithms when compare the performance of a data set for processing among the different algorithms. In recent years, Weka has been 
2010 International Conference on Intelligent Computation Technology and Automation 978-0-7695-4077-1/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICICTA.2010.676 811 


widely used as a standard platform to compare the performance among the different algorithms   For the developers who program of data mining Weka provides a framework just like the form of java class library to provide a simple programming interface for the secondary development on the Weka system. Developers simply provide an interface for development to write new algorithms which greatly reduce the problems and raise its efficiency of the development B  The Comparison Between Weka and Other Opensource Data Mining Platform Recently, there are several popular open-source data mining platform that have their own strengths and disadvantages as well   RapidMiner, is used for statistical analysis and graphics-oriented computer language and analysis tools, but its mode of operation is different from commercial software’s. It does not support the way of analysis flow chart. It is not easy viewed when it contains relatively more operators   Tanagra, is adopted to organize the analysis of components by a similar Windows Explorer tree structure. It is short of advanced visualization capabilities, but its strength is the ability of statistical analysis, and it provides numerous test methods with parameters and non-parameters   Weka, is the well known open-source machine learning and data mining software. Advanced users can call its analysis component by Java programming and command-line. Compared with R Weka is weak in statistical analysis, while it’s much stronger in machine learning   YALE, is built based on the Weka, it can call the various analytical components of Weka in other words   KNIME, is a well-developed data mining tool based on the Eclipse development environment. It don’t need to install and use easily, but does not support the Chinese language   Orange, is even simpler to use and the interface looks very cool, but its control ability is weaker than KNIME’s and does not support the Chinese   GGobi, can be used as plug-ins of R software, or can be called by Perl, Python and other scripting languages C  The Data Mining Process of Weka There are mainly five-step in the process of data mining on the platform of Weka 1  Data entry Data entry, there are three forms of data entry, including import file, download from the site, or import from the database. Weka can read many formats of files: Weka's ARFF format, CSV format, C4.5 format. The extension of ARFF file is usually. Arff, CSV file is. Csv, C4.5 file is Data and. Name, an instance of an object serialized is. Bsi 2  Data Mining Data Mining includes pre-processing, classification clustering, association rules, regression and other functions Pre-processing has the function of loading data, filling in the defect data items, filtering attributes, and filtering instances and other functions, which is the main part of the entire process of data mining 3  Data evaluation Data evaluation assesses the model of the results of data mining, studies the results of data mining 4  Visualization Visualization achieves visualization of data, mining process and results of data mining, provides a good assistant tool to the mining, and improves the efficiency of the excavation 5  Storage Storage stores the results in a particular format after excavation III  R E DEVELOPMENT OF W EKA BASED ON P OSITIVE AND N EGATIVE A SSOCIATION R ULES  We can achieve a variety of algorithms cooperated well with each other through the data mining platform of Weka At the same time, because of the open-source code, Weka can be used not only to complete the regular task of data mining, but also used for the secondary development of data mining to fill in the gap of tools between common data mining and professional research in this field, which also makes the algorithms’ implementation of the Weka are increasingly diversified. In this paper, we embedded the positive and negative association rules algorithm into Weka through an open-source platform, and expanded functions of the system A  The Thought of Positive an d Negative Association Rules Algorithm Rules \(AR: association rule\ining algorithm is only used to discover association rules, that is, those with high frequency and strong explicit model-related[4 th at is, lik e the A\037B model. In fact there are still a number of database mining techniques used at present can not be found in hidden mode, that is, the form A 004\010 B,¬A 004\010 B,¬A 004\010 B mode of the three forms of association, these important model is the implicit negative correlation rules, it has a low frequency, strong nature of the relevant performance data between the itemsets not directly aware of the nature of the strong correlation, which tells us the rules of implicit data items which occur with less, but they have very strong correlation, including a very valuable information Compared to association rules, negative association rules of the affairs of the state of the project set to expand; it can not only tap the explicit relationship between attributes, but also be able to tap the explicit and implicit relationships between attributes The algorithm of positive and negative association rules is measured by one judgement and two indicators of the measure 1  Decide the correlation acco rding to the value of corrA,B=s\(A 001 B\\(A\\(B\,which is used to delete the 
812 


paradoxical association rules appeared in the process of mining  There are three measurements possible of corrA, B    If corrA, B>1, Then A and B are related   If corrA, B=1, Then A and B are independent of each other   If corrA, B<1, Then A and B negative correlation 2  Support and confidence is the positive and negative association rules in two important indicators of the measure The support given by the user to meet the minimum support \(minsupport\ a collection of itemsets called frequent itemsets, association rules mining to find frequent itemsets is concentrating on the needs of the user to set the minimum confidence level \(minconf\ciation rules Negative association rules contains itemset does not exist \(non-existing-items, for example ¬A, ¬B calculation of their support and confidence level more difficult Theorem 1: if A, B 000\000 I, A 001 B=F, then   supp\(A\=1-supp\(¬A   supp\(A 001 B\= supp\(A\ supp\(A 001 B   supp\(¬A 001 B\- supp\(A 001 B   supp\(¬A 001 B\ 1-supp\(A\\(B\+ supp\(A 001 B Corollary 1: if A, B, T, A 001 B=F, then   conf\(A 004\010 B\\(supp\(A\-supp\(A 001 B\\ supp\(A conf\(A 004\010 B   conf\(¬A 004\010 supp\(B\-supp\(A 001 B\\ \(1-supp\(A   conf\(¬A 004\010 B\=\(1-supp\(A\p\(B\+supp\(A 001 B\\/\(1- supp\(A\=1- conf\(¬A 004\010 B Corollary 1 used to calculate the negative inference rules associated confidence level B  Positive and Negative Association Rules Algorithm We compiled the positive and negative association rules algorithm \(DoubleApriori\in accordance with the standard of Weka interface based on the above thoughts of positive and negative association rules algorithm. We chose Eclipes java platform as the further development environment of Weka 1  Algorithm is as follows Input: L-frequent itemsets; minsupp-minimum support Output: a set R of positive and negative association rules R 003\033  Generate the positive and negative association rules form frequent items For any itemset X in L do For any itemset A 001 B=X and A 001 B 003\033 do corr=supp\(A 001 B\supp\(A\supp\(B if corr>1 then if c\(A 004\010 B 000 minsupp then R=R 001 A 004\010 B  if c\(¬A 004\010 B 000 minsupp then R=R 001 A 004\010 B if corr<1 then if c\(A 004\010 B 000 minsupp then R=R 001 A 004\010 B  if c\(¬A 004\010 B 000 minsupp then R=R 001 A 004\010 B  Return R 2  Part of the procedure is as follows Calculate support of the new generation of the negative frequency, and add it into m_NCRules public void countItemSet int necSupport;necSupport=\(int\\(m_minSupport*\(double\m_insta nces.numInstances\(\+0.5\;Enumeration enumItemSetsX=m_TemporaryNCRules[0   elements Enumeration enumItemSetsY=m_TemporaryNCRules[1  e l e m e n ts     Enumeration enumItemSetsXY=m_TemporaryNCRules e l em ent s     while\(enumItemSetsX.hasMoreElements AprioriItemSet x=\(AprioriItemSet\enumItemSetsX.nextElement AprioriItemSet y=\(AprioriItemSet\enumItemSetsY.nextElement AprioriItemSet xy=\(AprioriItemSet\numItemSetsXY.nextElement if\(!containInNCRules\(x,y upDateCounter\(xy,m_instances if\(xy.counter\(\<necSupport m_NCRules[0 ad d E lem e n t  x   m_NCRules a dd El e m e n t  y    m_NCRules a dd El e m e n t  xy         C  Re-development process of Weka   Put the source packages of Weka downloaded from the official website into Eclipes java development environment   Establish the class of DoubleApriori under the package of weka.associations java since DoubleApriori is part of association rules algorithm then directly copy the above source namely DoubleApriori.java to the class of DoubleApriori under the package of weka.Associations, which is shown in Figure 1   Amend weka.gui.GenericObjectEditor.props, then write “weka.Associations.DoubleApriori” in the list of “# Lists the Associations I want to choose from   Run Weka, link data, and new algorithm DoubleApriori added can be seen from the Associate window, which is shown in Figure 2  Figure 1  Java implementation 
813 


000\003 Figure 2  Weka second development plan presentation IV  T HE EXPERIMENT OF P OLICE INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION ANALYSIS  We carried out an experiment of data source based on the information involved in the cases of police intelligence and information systems to verify the validity of algorithm and usefulness of Weka platform, which is shown in table I There are 200 experimental data transactions in total, and the number of the largest item set is 5. We set minsupp = 0.2 and minconf = 0.4 TABLE I  P ERSONNEL INFORMATION DATA SHEET  No Time Place Incident Age Sex Occupation 2007 00067 2007 1101 Station Pirates of the wallet 16 Male No regular employment 2007 00171 2007 1105 Huafeng Area Pirates of the Bicycle 32 Male No regular employment 2007 00173 2007 1206 Place in four districts Pirates of the wallet 14 Female No regular employment 2007 01003 2007 1210 Station Pirates of the mobile phone 15 Male No regular employment 2007 01020 2007 1230 Place in four districts Pirates of the wallet 14 Male No regular employment 2007 10088 2008 0104 Shopping Pirates of the Bicycle 29 Female No regular employment      Association rules can be drawn the following section through data mining, and will be compared with the general rules to find the number calculated of sets of rules between Apiori algorithm and positive and negative association rules algorithm, which is shown in table II. The number of positive association rules obtained from positive and negative association rules algorithm is significantly reduced in accordance with Apiori algorithm, which indicates some detect rules conflicting with each other are removed and a lot of negative association rules are mined at the same time The experiment illustrates the validity of the positive and negative association rules, and the availability of Weka platform Partial results 002  1. Pirates of the wallet ==> Place in four districts conf:\(0.66 2. Pirates of the wallet ==> Station   conf:\(0.39 3. Pirates of the wallet ==>20> Age <29+ Female conf:\(0.43 4. Pirates of the wallet ==> Age <20+ Male conf:\(0.54 5. Pirates of the Bicycle ==> Huafeng Area   conf:\(0.57 6. Pirates of the Bicycle ==> Shopping   conf:\(0.41 7. Pirates of the Bicycle ==> Female + No regular employment    conf:\(0.23   TABLE II  C OMPARING THE NUMBER OF RULES  Algorithm Positive association rules Negative association rules Independent attributes Apiori 365 365 DoubleApriori 282 603 885 V  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper mainly studies the data mining platform of Weka and its re-development based on the positive and negative association rules. We used positive and negative association rules algorithm that meet the interface of Weka to embed into the Weka platform, as we can not directly mine the positive and negative association rules from the Weka platform. We carried out the experiment of public intelligence and information systems to obtain better results of association rules, and verified the good adaptability and scalability of data mining platform of Weka based on the positive and negative association rules. Positive and negative association rules algorithm improved the mining thoughts of traditional association rules, could solve the problem of falling into local optimum. The rules excavated by this algorithm shown in the experiment are a small number of high quality, non-false rules and conflicting rules R EFERENCES  1  Data mining tools you used in 2005[EB/OL 20 07  http://www.kdnuggets.con/polls/2005/data-mining-tools.htm 2  Kirkby R,Frank E.WEKA explorer user guide for version 3-43[EB/OL 2 0 0 7  ht tp   w w w cs  w a ik ato  a c  n z  m l W E K A  200 4  3  Witten, I. H and Frank,E. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques.2nd edition Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco.\(2005\1-303 4  Ming-xuan HUANG, Yanhong Chen. Association rules mining technology research. Intelligence journal.2008.No.4.119 5  Yanguang Shen,Jie Liu,Fangping Li.Application Research on Positive and Negative Association Rules Oriented Software Defects,2009 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Software Engineering\(CISE 2009\[C W uh an C hi na D e c e m be r 1 1 13 2 0 0 9   6  Yanguang Shen,Jie Liu,Zhiyong Yang.Research on Positive and Negative Association Rules Based on “Interest-SupportConfidence”Framework,2009 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Software Engineering\(CISE 2009\[C W uh an C hi na D e c e m be r 1 1 13 2 0 0 9   
814 


A 2 FP Class A, which does not belong to Class A 3 FN Class A, incorrectly classified as not belonging to Class A 4 TN do not belong to Class A and are classified as not a part of Class A. It can also be given as \(100% - FP These metrics will help us form the overall accuracy, precision and recall of the classification model. We define these terms as follows Precision is given as the ratio of True Positives to True and False Positives. This value helps us understand the classification capability to identify objects correctly Precision TruePositive TruePositive+ FalsePositive Recall is given as the ratio of True Positives to True and False Negatives. This value helps us understand the classification capability to determine misclassified members are something else Recall TruePositive TruePositive+ FalseNegative Overall Accuracy is given as the ratio of all True Positives to all True and False Positives for all classes OverallAccuracy n i=1\(TruePositive i=1\(TruePositive+ FalsePositive III. EVALUATION AND RESULTS We have utilized two clustering algorithms, K-mean and Model based clustering algorithms. For K-mean clustering the number of clusters vary from 50 to 500 with a step of 50 and the average value of accuracy of each application is taken.77 For Model based clustering, the number of clusters in the dataset are estimated by the BIC. The transductive classifier output is passed through rule-based classifier using the Apriori algorithm for classification A. Trace For the evaluation we have used two data sets, one from a 


wired environment and one from a wireless. Waikato Internet Traffic Storage \(WITS Auckland University. The data is anonymized with only TCP UDP and ICMP and any payload within 64 bytes is zeroed 3]. Community Resource for Archiving Wireless Data At Dartmouth \(CRAWDAD  headers from every wireless packet were sniffed form four of the campus buildings. The buildings were among the most popular wireless locations, and included libraries, dormitories academic departments and social areas. The MAC address were sanitized by randomizing bottom six hex digits. IP address are anonymized using prefix-preserving IP sanitizer as described in [14]. For a given data set, we label the training data set by using port based classification B. Application Behavior Profiling The association rule mining technique help us derive valuable relations within the datapoints. In our case, such association will help us recognize pattern in a particular application The goal of the data mining and classification models is to build a heuristic for predictive recognizing the occurrence of application class from the datapoints The association rules composes of two item sets called an antecedent and consequent. Antecedent is the preceding event and Consequent is an event associated and followed after antecedent. In other words, an event occurring due to antecedent is followed by the consequent is depicted by the association rules for a particular class. Each rule is associated with three parameters, [2 1 be applied to \(the percentage of transactions, in which it is correct 2 is correct relative to the number of cases in which it is applicable \(and thus is equivalent to an estimate of the conditional probability of the consequent of the rule given its antecedent 3 consequent occur together, to the multiple of the two individual probabilities for antecedent and consequent There are conditions where both support and confidence is high, and still result in to invalid rule. Therefore Lift indicates the strength of a rule over random occurrence 


of antecedent and consequent, given their individual support. It provides information about improvement and increase in probability of consequent for a given antecedent. In the other words, Lift is given as Lift RuleSupport Support\(Antecedent Consequent TABLE I ASSOCIATION RULES FROM APRIORI ASSOCIATION ALGORITHM Traffic Rules C Lift DNS dip=16 => dport=56322 1 21.8 dport=4207 => dip=43 1 17.7 Mail dip=8 => dport=53 1 6.7 dip=16 => dport=53 1 6.7 HTTP dip=1 & dport=1273 => srcip=233 1 81.5 dip=1 0.7 1 IRC sip=162 => dport=37273 1 69 dip=16 0.7 1 SMTP sip=262 & dport=4868 => dip=28 1 2.8 dip=28 & dport=4868 => sip=262 1 15.3 Rules with lower lift and confidence values are filtered out Confidence is measured for certainty of the rule. It measures events itemset that matches the antecedent of the implication in the association rule and also matches consequent. Table I clearly mentions flow parameters in antecedent and consequent format for building association rules. The rules in the table are represented as Antecedent => Consequent The association rule indicates an affinity between antecedent and consequent with evaluation parameters such as Support Confidence and Lift For example, for HTTP, destination IP with index 1 and destination port number equal to 1273 will have a flow from source IP of index 233 with confidence \(noted as C lift of 81.5. When we trace back this flow, we are accurately able to classify this flow as HTTP. Moreover, in the future, if we observe any particular flow with this association then we would be certain to classify it as HTTP with confidence value of 1 C. Classification  http mail smtp dns irc 


0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Application A cc ur ac y Fig. 2. Accuracy for K-mean clustering and rule-based classification In Fig. 2, we show accuracy values of each application78 after clustering and rule-based classification. The number of cluster \(k a particular application. This is because, the number of flows in each clusters decrease and mean square error reduces for each iteration. This causes flow data to be tightly clustered With mean square error diminishing, misclassified flows are eliminated from the application class. We can observe an increase in precision for all the application classes. However with the increase of the number of clusters the processing time also increases. After several runs, we noted diminishing returns when the number of clusters was greater than 300. In order to get the optimum accuracy, we have averaged it for all values of k between 300 and 500 However, there is a need to estimate the number of clusters k for each clustering run. As we know same application class observes different behavior, therefore the value of k cannot simply be equal to the number of application classes. Hence it is difficult to estimate the k value for each new dataset as well as to maintain high accuracy and precision. One of the reasons is that K-mean clusters are partitioned by mean values iteratively. The mean values of random selected centers converge to the appropriate cluster. Finally, we observe that the overall accuracy is poor with a combination of K-mean 


with transductive and rule-based classification. Hence, we have used Model-based clustering that as will be shown, solves both issues Fig. 3. Bayesian Information Criterion distribution From Fig.3, we observe that Mclust uses BIC to estimate models and number of clusters. Model-based clustering estimates the cluster contour. For Mclust, geometric features are determined by covariances ?k. Each covariance matrix is parameterized by eigenvalue decomposition in the form [6 k = ?kdkAkD T k where, Dk = orthogonal matrix of eigenvectors, Ak = diagonal matrix whose elements are proportional to the eigenvalues of k, ?k = scalar quantity In the model, orientation for ?k depends on Dk. Also, the shape of the density contours is determined by Ak. The volume of the corresponding ellipsoid is proportional to ?dk | Ak where d represents data dimension. The characteristics of the geometric features of the cluster ? orientation, volume and shape are estimated from the data. These can vary between clusters, or be equal for all clusters. Hence we are able to estimate cluster contour for achieving precise model-based hierarchical clustering In one dimension dataset, equal variance and varying variance is represented by E and V respectively. For multiple dimensions, geometric characteristics of the model such as volume, shape and orientation is taken into consideration The volume, shape and orientation represents clustering of flow data. In our case, VEV model represents volumes of all clusters as varying \(V E V an approximation to the Bayes factor. It adds a penalty term to the log-likelihood estimation depending on the number of parameters BIC\(k x|?, k k n where, k is the number of clusters, p is the conditional probability; pi stands for different variance-covariance structures and v\(k clusters and covariance structure ?; ? represents maximum likelihood estimate of the parameters in the model \(k and n is the number of observations. BIC for each model is 


evaluated, and model with the highest BIC is the best model for the flow dataset As shown in Fig. 3, the best estimated model is VEV. VEV indicates volume and orientation is variable \(V equal \(E in Fig.3 that BIC is strongest for VEV model for number of clusters equal to 9. The number of clusters is very close to the number of applications, as opposed to K-mean technique Note that to get the highest accuracy from K-mean, more than 300 clusters were required In Fig.4, it is clearly shown that the model based clustering has performed better than K-mean classification for both data sets. Model-based clustering produces strong application clusters in the data. The Apriori based association rule classifier finds stronger association between flow parameters. The rules with high lift and confidence value, represent stronger correlation to the application. Hence, the rule set help us derive behavior pattern for a particular application class. We trace back the flows to the main trace file and we observe a strong probability that those flows belong to a particular application class. The overall accuracy of this method is around 94%, thus much higher than K-mean clustering method. We tested our model for CRAWDAD data and achieved similar accuracy of 93%.79   http mail snmp dns irc 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 ModelbasedandRulebasedClassificationAccuracyGraph WAND Crawdad Application A 


cc ur ac y   Fig. 4. Accuracy for Model-based clustering and rule-based classification Fig. 5. Distribution of flow attributes in scatter plot matrix In Fig.5, the distribution of IP and ports for source and destination is depicted for Model-based clustering method. For HTTP \(blue traffic to few destination IPs. HTTP behavior is prominent because a number of source hosts are communicating with small number of destination hosts, i.e., HTTP servers. In DNS application, source hosts communicate with a set of DNS servers. Each host interacts with different domains such as www, .org and .net for resolving IP addresses. The DNS behavior is prominent because large group of source hosts communicate with small repeated set of destination IPs. In the IRC application, a group of hosts communicates with other group of hosts. There is roughly one-to-one correspondence between source and destination IP. This behavior is prominent because IRC \(cross with approximately equal number of destination IPs. Moreover, source IP and destination port distribution show that destination port numbers are in the range of 30000 for SMTP green where as HTTP and MAIL have destination ports number in lower range of 1000. Model-based clustering with the Apriori algorithm provides reliable and accurate classification model as compared to K-mean method. The association rules helps us predict flows for particular application with high confidence and lift values IV. CONCLUSION In conclusion, we have presented a classification model that achieves high flow classification accuracy with application behavior profiling. The use of the K-mean algorithm for Netflow classification was shown to be inefficient. On the other hand, Model based clustering with association rule mining techniques provided a much better accuracy. Moreover the rule heuristics are produced automatically, making the algorithm modular and independent of the dataset. In addition 


our model is able to detect new behavior patterns for next generation applications. As a future work, we are planning to analyze a bigger database of traces and define behavior patterns for a wider range of applications REFERENCES 1] F. Baker, B. Foster, and C. Sharp. Cisco architecture for lawful intercept in IP networks. Internet Engineering Task Force, RFC, 3924, 2004 2] C. Borgelt and R. Kruse. Induction of association rules: Apriori implementation. In Compstat: Proceedings in Computational Statistics 15th Symposium Held in Berlin, Germany, 2002, page 395. Physica Verlag, 2002 3] WAND Trace Catalogue. http://www.wand.net.nz/wits/catalogue.php 4] C. Dewes, A. Wichmann, and A. Feldmann. An analysis of Internet chat systems. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement, pages 5164. ACM, 2003 5] J. Erman, A. Mahanti, and M. Arlitt. Internet traffic identification using machine learning. In Proceedings of IEEE GlobeCom. Citeseer, 2006 6] C. Fraley and A.E. Raftery. MCLUST version 3 for R: Normal mixture modeling and model-based clustering. Technical report, Citeseer, 2006 7] M. Iliofotou, H. Kim, M. Faloutsos, M. Mitzenmacher, P. Pappu, and G. Varghese. Graph-based P2P traffic classification at the internet backbone. In IEEE Global Internet Symposium. Citeseer, 2009 8] T. Karagiannis, A. Broido, and M. Faloutsos. Transport layer identification of P2P traffic. In Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement, pages 121134. ACM, 2004 9] David Kotz, Tristan Henderson, Ilya Abyzov and Jihwang Yeo. CRAWDAD trace dartmouth/campus/tcpdump/fall01 \(v. 2004-11-09 http://crawdad.cs.dartmouth.edu/dartmouth/campus/tcpdump/fall01 November 2004 10] A.W. Moore and K. Papagiannaki. Toward the accurate identification of network applications. Passive and Active Network Measurement, pages 4154, 2005 11] TTT Nguyen and G. Armitage. A survey of techniques for internet traffic classification using machine learning. IEEE Communications Surveys Tutorials, 10\(4 12] I. Papapanagiotou and M. Devetsikiotis. Aggregation Design Methodologies for Triple Play Services. In IEEE CCNC 2010, Las Vegas, USA pages 15, 2010 13] V. Paxson. Bro: A system for detecting network intruders in real-time Comput. Networks, 31\(23 14] J. Xu, J. Fan, M. Ammar, and S.B. Moon. On the design and 


performance of prefix-preserving IP traffic trace anonymization. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on Internet Measurement, page 266. ACM, 2001.80 


denote the input attribute with the minimum integrated cost after the split, and let the set of allocated sample sizes, computed by the sample allocation method explained later, be ASM . Then DM | children are generated for the node M . For each child CHi, i = 1, . . . , |DM |, the associated query is QN ?{M = mi sample size is asi ? ASM , and potential splitting attributes is PSN ? M . The process of splitting is then recursively applied to children of node N In the process of calculating costs during the strati?cation process, we need to perform sample allocation, i.e., divide the parent nodes sample size among the potential children nodes This is required for calculating the integrated cost for the potential split. This is based on our sample allocation method, which we 328 describe next in Section IV-B. Furthermore, for calculating the integrated cost, the variance of target value ?2i and probability of output attribute A = a, ?i, for each stratum is computed based on the pilot sample Initially, the strati?cation process on the query space begins by calling Stratification\(R, null, F IA, n, null root node. The process of strati?cation would stop if there is no leaf node with integrated cost larger than a prede?ned threshold Each leaf node in the tree is a ?nal stratum for sampling, and the associated sample size denotes the number of data records drawn from the subpopulation of the stratum B. An Optimized Sample Allocation Method Now, we introduce our optimized algorithm for sample allocation which integrates variance reduction and sampling cost As introduced in section IV-A, integrated cost is de?ned by taking into account of variance of estimation and sampling cost The goal of our sample allocation algorithm is to minimize the integrated cost by choosing the sample size, ni, for each stratum In our algorithm, we adjust the value of SampCost and ?2s so that their in?uences on the integrated cost are in the same unit SampCost SampCost SmpCost\(r where SmpCost\(r entire population, and ?r denotes the probability of A = a being true for the entire population 2 2s 


2r where ?2r 2 n denotes the variance of estimation of the target value on the entire population The key constraint on the values of the sample sizes for each strata is that their sum should be equal to the total sample size A vector n = {n1, n2, . . . , nH} is used to represent the sample sizes, where the ith element, ni, is the sample size for the ith stratum By including sampling cost and variance of estimation into the integrated cost, our sample size determination task leads to the following optimization problem Minimize Cost\(n  i\(?s ni i v N2i niN2 2 i subject to  i ni = n 6 where Ni denotes the population size of data records under the space of A = a in ith stratum. Note that this value may not be known if A is an output attribute. However, the total number of records in the ith stratum is typically known, and can be denoted as DNi. Then Ni can be estimated by ?iDNi, and the population size of A = a on the entire population is estimated by N  i ?i DNi For ?nding the minimum of integrated cost, we utilize Lagrange multipliers, a well know optimization method. Lagrange multipliers aims at ?nding the extrema of a function object to constraints. Using this approach, a new variable ? called a Lagrange multiplier is introduced and de?ned by n n  


 i ni ? n If n is a minimum solution for the original constrained problem then there exists a ? such that \(n Lagrange function. Stationary points are those points where the partial derivatives of ?\(n n,??\(n 7 In our problem, by conducting partial derivatives on Formula 7 a group of equations are yielded as follows s i v N 2 i n2iN2 2 i + ? = 0 i = 1, ..H i ni = n 8 where the solution n leads to the minimum value of integrated cost in Formula 5 However, it is dif?cult to solve the group of equations directly Thus, we use numerical analysis to approximate the real solution. Newtons method is utilized for ?nding successively better approximations to the zeroes \(or roots Given an equation f\(x x tive of function f\(x method iteratively provides, xt+1, a better approximation of the root, based on xt, the previous approximation of root according to the following formula xt+1 = xt ? f\(xt f ?\(xt The iteration is repeated until a suf?ciently accurate value is reached, i.g. |f\(xt In our problem of Formula 8, there are H + 1 equations F \(xt xt xt n1, .., nH , ?}, where the equations in F \(xt fi\(xt s i v N 


2 i n2iN2 2 i + ? i = 1, .., H fH+1\(xt  i ni ? n The Newtons method is also applied iteratively via the system of linear equations JF \(xt xt+1 ? xt xt 9 where JF \(xt H + 1 H + 1 equation system F \(xt vector xt. The entry JF \(i, j d\(fi\(x dxj where fi\(x xt x From the Expression 9, a better approximation xt+1 is obtained based on previous approximation xt. The iterative procedure would be stopped if ?i|fi\(xt threshold, and then the sample size ni is allocated for each stratum so that the integrated cost is minimized. In reality, we are required to pick an integral number of records from each stratum during the sampling step. Thus, we round down each ni to its nearest integer, ni + 0.5 In the example shown in Table I, suppose we set both weights v and ?s to be 0.5. Further, assume the variance of the entire population, ?2r , to be 80000. The probability of A = a over the entire population ?r is 0.242. By using the proposed optimized sample allocation method, the sample sizes for the three strata 329 are 162, 299, and 139, respectively. In this case, the variance of estimation according to the Expression 2 is 93.66, and the estimated cost is 1943.7. We can see that, compared with Neyman allocation, the sampling cost is decreased by 42.1%, but results some increase in variance. Overall, this example shows that we can achieve lower sampling cost by trading off some accuracy C. Overall Sampling Process Algorithm 2 DiffRuleSampling\(DW1, DW2, F IA, t, St 1: PS ? a pilot sample from DW1, DW2 


2: DR ? identi?ed rules from PS 3: OA ? output attributes of DW1, DW2 4: for all R : X ? DW1\(t t 5: if X ?OA = null then 6: Acquire St data records from the space of X 7: else 8: R ? root node 9: Lf ? null 10: Strati?cation\(R,null, F IA, St, Lf 11: for all N ? Lf do 12: s ? sample size of N 13: Draw s data records from the subpopulation of N 14: end for 15: end if 16: Update the mean value of DW1\(t t 17: end for Algorithm 2 shows the overall sampling process for differential rule mining on two deep web data sources, DW1 and DW2 and with differential attribute t. The inputs of the algorithm also contain the full set of input attributes FIA as well as the sample size St. The algorithm starts with a pilot sample PS, from which the differential rules are identi?ed. For the rule R : X ? DW1\(t t St data records are directly drawn from the space of X \(Lines 5-6 t t containing output attributes, query spaces of DW1 and DW2 are strati?ed and sample is recursively allocated to each stratum with corresponding query subspace \(Line 10 of the tree built by strati?cation, a sample is drawn according to its sample size \(Line 13 t t is updated by the further sample \(Line 16 for association rule mining is very similar and not shown here V. EVALUATION STUDY We evaluate our sampling methods for association mining and differential rule mining on the deep web using two datasets described below US Census data set: This is a 9-attribute real-life data set obtained from the 2008 US Census on the income of US households. This data set contains 40,000 data records with 7 categorical attributes about the race, age, and education level of the husband and wife of each household and 2 numerical attributes about the incomes of husband and wife 


Yahoo! data set: The Yahoo! data set, which consists of the data crawled from a subset of a real-world hidden database at http://autos.yahoo.com/. Particularly, we download the data on used cars located within 50 miles of a zipcode address. This yields 30,000 data records. The data consists of 7-attribute with 6 categorical attributes about the age, mileage, brand, etc, of the cars and one numerical attribute, which is the price of the car Variance of Estimation is estimated for the target value \(i.e mean value in differential rule mining, and con?dence in association rule mining is calculated according to the Expression 2. Since variance of estimation reveals the variation of the estimated value from the true value, smaller variance suggests better estimation Sampling Cost is estimated by the number of queries submitted to data sources in order to acquire a certain number of data records containing target output attributes, i.e. A = a. Larger sample size implies higher sampling costs in a deep web setting where the queries are executed over the internet Estimate accuracy is estimated by Absolute Error Rate \(AER Small AER value indicates higher accuracy. For an estimator on variable Y with true value y and estimated value y, the AER of the estimator is calculated by AER\(y A. Association Rule Mining In this section, we present the results of our method for association rule mining. Using our overall approach, we have created four different versions, which correspond to four different sets of weights assigned to variance of estimation and sampling costs. 1 the weight ?v = 1.0 and ?s = 0.0, 2 the weight ?v = 0.7 and ?s = 0.3, 3 v = 0.5 and ?s = 0.5, and 4 weights ?v = 0.3 and ?s = 0.7. In addition, we also compare these approaches with a simple random sampling method, which is denoted by Random We focus on the queries in the form of A = a ? B = b where A and B are output categorical attributes. Other categorical attributes in the data set are considered as input attributes Our goal is to estimate Supp\(A=a,B=b A=a association rules are randomly selected from the datasets. Each of the 50 association rules are re-processed 100 times using 100 different \(pilot sample, sample iterations result is the average result for 5000 executions 


In all charts reported in this section, the X-axis is k, which denotes the size of sample under the space of a target rule drawn from deep web. The sample size for each point on X-axis is k x, where x is a ?xed value for our experiment, and depends upon the dataset. At each time, queries are issued to obtain kx data records under the space of a target rule. Overall, all our experiments show the variance of estimation, sampling costs and sampling accuracy with varying sample size Figure 1 shows the result from our strati?ed sample methods on the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, from which all of the 50 initial rules are derived. In this experiment the ?xed value x is set to be 300, which means the smallest sample size at k = 1 is 300, and the largest sample size at k 10 is 3000. Figure 1 a the ?ve sampling procedures. Figure 1 b cost for the sampling procedures. In order to better illustrate the experiment result, in each execution of sampling, the variance of 330 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH            9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  


9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW           6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF            5 


 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 1. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on US Census Dataset estimation and sampling cost for the sampling procedures var7 var5, var3, and rand are normalized by the corresponding values of Full Var. Thus, in our experiment, the values of sampling cost and variance of estimation for sampling procedure Full Var are all 1. Furthermore, Figure 1 c sampling procedures From Figure 1 a pared with sampling procedures Var7, Var5 and Var3, Full Var has the lowest estimation variance and the highest sampling cost. From sampling procedures Var7, Var5, and Var3, we can see a pattern that the variance of estimation increases, and the sampling cost decreases consistently with the decrease of the weight for variance of estimation. At the largest sample size of k = 10, the estimation variance of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 27% and the sampling cost is decreased by 40 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. The experiment shows that our method decreases the sampling cost ef?ciently by trading off a percent of variance of estimation. Similar to variance of estimation, the sampling accuracy of these procedures also decreases with the decrease of the weight on variance of estimation. For the largest sample size at k = 10, we can see that the AER of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 20 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. However, for many users, increase of the AER will be acceptable, since the sampling cost is decreased by 40%. By setting the weights for sampling variance and sampling cost, users would be able to control the trade-off between the variance of estimation, sampling cost, and estimation accuracy In addition, compared with sampling procedure of Full Var Var7, Var5, and Var3, sampling procedure Random, has higher estimation of variance, sampling cost and lower estimation accuracy. Thus, our approach clearly results in more effective methods than using simple random sampling for data mining on the deep web Figure 2 shows the experiment result of our proposed strati?ed 


sampling methods on the Yahoo! data set. The size of pilot sample on this data set is 2,000, and the ?xed value x for sample size is 200. The results are similar to those from the US census dataset. We can still see the pattern of the variance of estimation increasing with the decrease of its weight. Besides, the sampling accuracy is also similar to the variance of estimation. However although the variance estimation of sampling procedure Random is 60% larger than sampling procedure Full Var, the sampling cost of Random is 2% smaller than Full Var. This is because Full Var does not consider sampling cost. It is possible that Full Var assigns a large sample to a stratum with low ?, which denotes the probability of containing data records under the space of A = a, resulting the larger sampling cost than that of simple random sampling. Sampling procedures Var7, Var5, Var3 consider sampling cost as well, and have smaller variance estimation and sampling cost, compared with Random. Furthermore, Random has smaller sampling accuracy than Full Var, Var7 and Var5, but has larger sampling accuracy than Var3. This is because Var3 assigns much more importance to the sampling cost, and loses accuracy to a large extent To summarize, our results shows that our proposed strati?ed sampling are clearly more effective than simple random sampling on the deep web. Moreover, our approach allows users to tradeoff variance of estimation and sampling accuracy to some extent while achieving a large reduction in sampling costs B. Differential Rule Mining In this section, we present results from experiments based on differential rule mining. Particularly, we look at the rules of the form A = a ? D1\(t t categorical attribute and t is an output numerical attribute, while other categorical attributes in the data set are considered as input attributes In this experiment, we also evaluate our proposed method with different weights assigned to variance of estimation and sampling cost. Five sampling procedures, Full Var, Var7, Var5,Var3 and Random, have same meanings with those in the experiments of association rule mining. Similarly, 50 rules are randomly selected from the datasets, and each of the 50 differential rules are reprocessed 100 times using 100 different \(pilot sample, sample iterations 5000 runs First, we evaluated the performance of these procedures on 


the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, and all 50 rules are derived from this pilot sample. In this experiment the ?xed value x for the sample size is set to be 300. The attribute income is considered as a differential attribute, and the difference of income of husband and wife is studied in this experiment. Figure 3 shows the performance of the 5 sampling 331 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW    


      6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 2. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the US census data set. The results are also similar to the experiment results for association rule mining: there is a consistent trade off between the estimation variance and sampling cost by setting their weights. Our proposed methods have better performance than simple random sampling method 


We also evaluated the performance of our methods on the Yahoo! dataset. The size of pilot sampling is 2000, and the xed value x for the sample size is 200. The attribute price is considered as the target attribute. Figure 4 shows the performance of the 5 sampling procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the Yahoo! dataset. The results are very similar to those from the previous experiments VI. RELATED WORK We now compare our work with the existing work on sampling for association rule mining, sampling for database aggregation queries, and sampling for the deep web Sampling for Association Rule Mining: Sampling for frequent itemset mining and association rule mining has been studied by several researchers [23], [21], [11], [6]. Toivonen [23] proposed a random sampling method to identify the association rules which are then further veri?ed on the entire database. Progressive sampling [21], which is based on equivalence classes, involves determining the required sample size for association rule mining FAST [11], a two-phase sampling algorithm, has been proposed to select representative transactions, with the goal of reducing computation cost in association rule mining.A randomized counting algorithm [6] has been developed based on the Markov chain Monte Carlo method for counting the number of frequent itemsets Our work is different from these sampling methods, since we consider the problem of association rule mining on the deep web. Because the data records are hidden under limited query interfaces in these systems, sampling involves very distinct challenges Sampling for Aggregation Queries: Sampling algorithms have also been studied in the context of aggregation queries on large data bases [18], [1], [19], [25]. Approximate Pre-Aggregation APA  categorical data utilizing precomputed statistics about the dataset Wu et al. [25] proposed a Bayesian method for guessing the extreme values in a dataset based on the learned query shape pattern and characteristics from previous workloads More closely to our work, Afrati et al. [1] proposed an adaptive sampling algorithm for answering aggregation queries on hierarchical structures. They focused on adaptively adjusting the sample size assigned to each group based on the estimation error in each group. Joshi et al.[19] considered the problem of 


estimating the result of an aggregate query with a very low selectivity. A principled Bayesian framework was constructed to learn the information obtained from pilot sampling for allocating samples to strata Our methods are clearly distinct for these approaches. First strata are built dynamically in our algorithm and the relations between input and output attributes are learned for sampling on output attributes. Second, the estimation accuracy and sampling cost are optimized in our sample allocation method Hidden Web Sampling: There is recent research work [3 13], [15] on sampling from deep web, which is hidden under simple interfaces. Dasgupta et al.[13], [15] proposed HDSampler a random walk scheme over the query space provided by the interface, to select a simple random sample from hidden database Bar-Yossef et al.[3] proposed algorithms for sampling suggestions using the public suggestion interface. Our algorithm is different from their work, since our goal is sampling in the context of particular data mining tasks. We focus on achieving high accuracy with a low sampling cost for a speci?c task, instead of simple random sampling VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have proposed strati?cation based sampling methods for data mining on the deep web, particularly considering association rule mining and differential rule mining Components of our approach include: 1 the relation between input attributes and output attributes of the deep web data source, 2 maximally reduce an integrated cost metric that combines estimation variance and sampling cost, and 3 allocation method that takes into account both the estimation error and the sampling costs Our experiments show that compared with simple random sampling, our methods have higher sampling accuracy and lower sampling cost. Moreover, our approach allows user to reduce sampling costs by trading-off a fraction of estimation error 332 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH      


     V WL PD WL RQ R I 9D UL DQ FH  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 


9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 3. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the US Census Dataset 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL 


PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF         


    5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 4. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset REFERENCES 1] Foto N. Afrati, Paraskevas V. Lekeas, and Chen Li. Adaptive-sampling algorithms for answering aggregation queries on web sites. Data Knowl Eng., 64\(2 2] Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pages 487499, 1994 3] Ziv Bar-Yossef and Maxim Gurevich. Mining search engine query logs via suggestion sampling. Proc. VLDB Endow., 1\(1 4] Stephen D. Bay and Michael J. Pazzani. Detecting group differences Mining contrast sets. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 5\(3 246, 2001 5] M. K. Bergman. The Deep Web: Surfacing Hidden Value. Journal of Electronic Publishing, 7, 2001 6] Mario Boley and Henrik Grosskreutz. A randomized approach for approximating the number of frequent sets. In ICDM 08: Proceedings of the 2008 Eighth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pages 4352 Washington, DC, USA, 2008. IEEE Computer Society 7] D. Braga, S. Ceri, F. Daniel, and D. Martinenghi. Optimization of Multidomain Queries on the Web. VLDB Endowment, 1:562673, 2008 8] R. E. Ca?isch. Monte carlo and quasi-monte carlo methods. Acta Numerica 7:149, 1998 9] Andrea Cali and Davide Martinenghi. Querying Data under Access Limitations. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 5059, 2008 10] Bin Chen, Peter Haas, and Peter Scheuermann. A new two-phase sampling based algorithm for discovering association rules. In KDD 02: Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 462468, New York, NY, USA, 2002 ACM 


11] W. Cochran. Sampling Techniques. Wiley and Sons, 1977 12] Arjun Dasgupta, Gautam Das, and Heikki Mannila. A random walk approach to sampling hidden databases. In SIGMOD 07: Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data pages 629640, New York, NY, USA, 2007. ACM 13] Arjun Dasgupta, Xin Jin, Bradley Jewell, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das Unbiased estimation of size and other aggregates over hidden web databases In SIGMOD 10: Proceedings of the 2010 international conference on Management of data, pages 855866, New York, NY, USA, 2010. ACM 14] Arjun Dasgupta, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das. Leveraging count information in sampling hidden databases. In ICDE 09: Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 329340 Washington, DC, USA, 2009. IEEE Computer Society 15] Loekito Elsa and Bailey James. Mining in?uential attributes that capture class and group contrast behaviour. In CIKM 08: Proceeding of the 17th ACM conference on Information and knowledge management, pages 971 980, New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM 16] E.K. Foreman. Survey sampling principles. Marcel Dekker publishers, 1991 17] Ruoming Jin, Leonid Glimcher, Chris Jermaine, and Gagan Agrawal. New sampling-based estimators for olap queries. In ICDE, page 18, 2006 18] Shantanu Joshi and Christopher M. Jermaine. Robust strati?ed sampling plans for low selectivity queries. In ICDE, pages 199208, 2008 19] Bing Liu. Web Data Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents, and Usage Data \(Data-Centric Systems and Applications Inc., Secaucus, NJ, USA, 2006 20] Srinivasan Parthasarathy. Ef?cient progressive sampling for association rules. In ICDM 02: Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, page 354, Washington, DC, USA, 2002. IEEE Computer Society 21] William H. Press and Glennys R. Farrar. Recursive strati?ed sampling for multidimensional monte carlo integration. Comput. Phys., 4\(2 1990 22] Hannu Toivonen. Sampling large databases for association rules. In The VLDB Journal, pages 134145. Morgan Kaufmann, 1996 23] Fan Wang, Gagan Agrawal, Ruoming Jin, and Helen Piontkivska. Snpminer A domain-speci?c deep web mining tool. In Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, pages 192 199, 2007 24] Mingxi Wu and Chris Jermaine. Guessing the extreme values in a data set a bayesian method and its applications. VLDB J., 18\(2 25] Mohammed J. Zaki. Scalable algorithms for association mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 12:372390, 2000 


333 


