KEYNOTE SPEECHES Plenary Session 1P Great America Ball Room 8:45AM-10:00AM Keynote Speech 1P.1 Tuesday, March 4 9:00AM-9:30AM A New Era of Computing: Are You Ready Now" To Build A Smarter and Secured Enterprise Jacqueline Woods Global Vice President of Growth Solutions, STG IBM We are experiencing fundamental changes in how we interact, live, work and succeed in business. To support the new paradigm, computing must be simpler, more responsive and more adaptive, with the ability to seamlessly move from monolithic applications to dynamic services from structured data at rest to unstructured data in motion, from supporting standard device interfaces to supporting a myriad of new and different devices every day. IBM understands this need to integrate social, mobile, cloud and big data to deliver value for your enterprise, so join this discussion, and learn how IBM helps customers leverage these technologies for superior customer value About Jacqueline Woods Ms. Woods is the Global Vice President of Syst ems Software and Growth Solutions for the IBM Corporation. In this role, she leads the organiza tion's marketing for Cloud, Analytics and Technical Computing. She's also drives business development for Competitive Independent Software Vendors such as SAP and leads the Transformation account strate gy for the division. In total, this represents a portfolio totaling ~ $ 12B. In this role she creates "blueprints for growth" designed to profitably accelerate sales. By building partnerships among channels \(direct, indirect, and online\r constituents \(sales, operations, etc.\, she unifies team s for a singular winning purpose. Her collective experience and body of work includes consumer and enterprise organizations for the Communications Sector \(Energy, Telco, Media Entertainment\Fina ncial Sector \(Retail Banking, Commercial and Insurance\ibution Sector \(Consumer Packaged and Retail\the Industrial Sector \(Chemical, Petroleum and Electroni cs\In each of her roles, she's specialized in helping C-level executives of Fortune 500 companies reach their goals through a designed approach 


which at its core is focused on understanding custom er needs more effectively and driving growth based on those needs. These efforts have generated more than a billion dollar in revenue across the following sectors – Communications, Energy, Indust rial, Transportation, and Financial Services. Ms Woods was featured in Fortune Magazine's 50 Most Powerful Black Executives in America in 2003 Ebony's Top 15 Women in Business in America in 2004, and Black Enterprise's Top 50 Black Female Executives in February 2006. She's also been featur ed in the NY Times and Wall Street Journal She's also presented at Harvard, the Kennedy School of Government, the Organization for Cooperative Economic Development, and various customer experience and marketing conferences Ms. Woods is a Merit Fellow and holds an MBA from the University of Southern California, Marshall School of Business, with a concentration in marketing and venture management. She holds a BS from the University of California Davis in Managerial Economics. She also served as member of the Dean's Council for the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University from 2003-2009 Keynote Speech 1P.2 Tuesday, March 4 9:30AM-10:00AM Hardware-software Co-design for Trustworthy Platforms Sridhar Iyengar Director of Security and Privacy Research Intel In the last decade, malware a ttacks on our platforms have exploded in frequency, sophistication and virulence. Billions of smart devices connect to servers in the cloud, all transporting processing and storing our most sensitive data. All this forms a large threat surface that is becoming increasingly hard to protect against a determined adversary. This talk will address key security research leading to silicon features on Intel platforms. These provide a strong foundation to proactively combat malware provide the necessary acceleration for encryption and enhancements for better isolation and data protection. The talk will also address how software can and should take advantage of the hardware features to address the challenges of security in a connected world About Sridhar Iyengar Sridhar has been at Intel for 30 years in various technical, research and managerial capacities, both in the labs and product groups. He is currently the Director of Security and Privacy Research, a group that is chartered to drive game-changing technologies to make "trustworthiness" a fundamental aspect of Intel platforms. He holds a Bac helor of Technology in Electrical Engineering from IIT Madras and a Masters in Computer Sci ence from the University of Wisconsin, Madison 


KEYNOTE SPEECHES Plenary Session 2P Wednesday March 5 Great America Ball Room 8:15AM-10:00AM Keynote Speech 2P.1 Wednesday, March 5 8:30AM-9:00AM Cloud-Delivered Security fo r the Mobile Enterprise Amit Sinha EVP Engineering and Operations, Chief Technology Officer Zscaler The adoption of Mobility, Cloud and Social Media is driving businesses to spend more on the deployment of costly appliance-based point solutions for Internet security that still leave significant gaps in coverage. Appliances also accrue additional costs due to administration overhead and backhauling of traffic to a central locations for inspection and policy enforcement Cloud-delivered security can provide a safe and rich Internet experience for users on any device at any location, without requiring organizations to manage any hardware or software. Enterprises can eliminate appliance and backhauling costs by enabling their traffic to directly go to the Internet via a Security Cloud. This talk will focus on how to build and run a global Security Cloud that can protect millions of users across thousands of organizations About Amit Sinha Dr. Amit Sinha is skilled entrepreneur and leader having driven research and development of disruptive security and wireless technologies for multiple market-leading organizations, including Zscaler, Motorola, AirDefense and Engim. At Zscale r, Sinha is responsible for all engineering and operations of Zscaler's Security Cloud—from produc t design, development, testing to managing and scaling the cloud. Sinha earned his MS and PhD in El ectrical Engineering and Computer Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his B Tech. in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi where he was awarded the President of India Gold Medal for graduating summa cum laude. He holds 27 US patents and has contributed to three books and dozens of conference and journal papers 


29 Keynote Speech 2P.2 Wednesday, March 5 9:00AM-9:30AM Carbon Nanotube Computer Transforming Scientific Discoveries into Working Systems Subhasish Mitra Professor and Director of the Robust Systems Group Stanford University Carbon Nanotube Field Effect Transistors \(CNFETs\e excellent candidates for building highly energy-efficient future electronic systems. Unfortunately, carbon nanotubes \(CNTs\ubject to substantial inherent imperfections that pose major obstacles to the design of robust and very large-scale CNFET digital systems: It is nearly impossible to guarantee perfect alignment and positioning of all CNTs. This limitation introduces stray conducting paths, resulting in incorrect circuit functionality. CNTs can be metallic or semiconducting depending on chirality. Metallic CNTs cause shorts resulting in excessive leakage and incorrect circuit functionality. A combination of design and processing techniques overcomes these challenges by creating robust CNFET digital circuits that are immune to thes e inherent imperfections. This imperfection-immune design paradigm enables the first experimental demonstration of the carbon nanotube computer and, more generally, arbitrary digital systems that can be built using CNFETs. Monolithically integrated three-dimensional CNFET circuits will also be discussed. This research was performed at Stanford University in collaboration with Prof. H.-S. Philip Wong and several graduate students About Subhasish Mitra Professor Subhasish Mitra directs the Robust Syst ems Group in the Department of Electrical Engineering and the Department of Computer Sci ence of Stanford University, where he is the Chambers Faculty Scholar of Engineering. Before join ing Stanford, he was a Pr incipal Engineer at Intel Corporation. Prof. Mitra's research interests in clude robust system design, VLSI design, CAD validation and test, and emerging nanotechnologies. Hi s X-Compact technique for test compression has been key to cost-effective manufacturing and highquality testing of a vast majority of electronic systems, including numerous Intel products. X-Compac t and its derivatives have been implemented in widely-used commercial Electronic Design Automation tools. The QED and IFRA techniques, created jointly with his students, have shown outstanding resu lts in overcoming critical bottlenecks in postsilicon validation and debug for several commercial hardware platforms, and have been characterized as "breakthrough" in a Research Highlight in t he Communications of the ACM. His work on carbon nanotube imperfection-immune digital VLSI, jointly wi th his students and collaborators, resulted in the demonstration of the first carbon nanotube computer and it was featured on the cover of NATURE 


Sept. 2013\The National Science Foundation presente d this work as a Research Highlight to the United States Congress, and it also was highlighted as "an important, scientific breakthrough" by the BBC, Economist, EE Times, IEEE Spectrum, MIT Tech nology Review, New York Times, Scientific American, Time, Wall Street Journal, Washington Po st, and numerous other organizations worldwide Prof. Mitra's major honors include the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers from the White House, the highest United States honor for early-career outstanding scientists and engineers, Terman Fellowship, and the Intel Achievem ent Award, Intel's highest corporate honor. He and his students published award-winning papers at major forums on a wide range of topics spanning robust systems, VLSI design, validation and test and nanotechnologies: IEEE/ACM Design Automation Conference, IEEE International Test Conference, IEEE Trans. CAD, IEEE VLSI Test Symposium, Intel Design and Test Technology Conference, and the Symposium on VLSI Technology. At Stanford, he was honored several times by graduating seniors "for being important to them during their time at Stanford." Prof. Mitra has served on numerous conf erence committees and journal editorial boards Recently, he served on DARPA's Information Science and Technology Board as an invited member. He is a Fellow of the IEEE 


Keynote Speech 2P.3 Wednesday, March 5 9:30AM-10:00AM Can You Trust the Internet of Things A Look at Security of All Things Connected Stacy Cannady Technical Marketing - Trustworthy Computing TRIAD \(Threat Response, Intelligence, and Development\ for Cisco and a member of the Trusted Computing Group Once we worried about the security of our desktop computers. Then came increasingly powerful and connected mobile devices…which offered the keys to the kingdom to anyone willing to spend a bit of time attacking them. Now, in addition to our continuing concerns about devices we now see as powerful computers, we must look to securing the next generation of connected devices But these devices don't fit on the desktop or even in the hand. They instead are scattered around the home, the office, the manufacturing plant, the retail store and even on the highway. Home appliances, cars, personal fitness devices, medical devices, factory automation systems thermostats and security systems, even a smoke detector - these all fit in the Internet of Things Therefore, security must be considered. This talk will address some key issues and core concepts of IoT security including the possible role of trust and use of existing and evolving industry standards. Attendees will get a new perspective on embedded strong security into a variety of devices. This session includes discussion of several security architectures already deployed in IoT devices and includes resources for the tools used to implement those architectures \(mostly available for free About Stacy Cannady Stacy Cannady, CISSP, is technical marketing Trustworthy Computing TRIAD \(Threat Response Intelligence, and Development\for Cisco and a member of the Trusted Computing Group's Embedded Systems Work Group. He is an alternate board member representing Cisco. Stacy has worked in the field of trusted computing for a number of years. As a subject matter expert in trusted computing, his responsibilities require an in-depth understanding of the trusted computing market, including advances in hardware and software security as well as vendor and customer market dynamics. Prior to his work with Cisco, Stacy was responsible for marketing leade rship for trusted computing at DMI, IBM and at Lenovo. At IBM, he played a principal role in making the TPM standard equipment in ThinkPad and ThinkCenter PCs. This created com petitive pressure in the PC market and led to broad market acceptance of the TPM as standard equipment in ente rprise-class PCs. Stacy was also responsible for 


the security product strategy for IBM's PC Division and for Lenovo for eight years. This strategy required subject matter expertise in firmware securi ty, biometrics, smart cards, identity management encryption and access control. Additionally, at Lenovo he was also responsible for incident response and served as Privacy Manager for the Software & Peripherals Business Unit 1 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  8  As computer circuit features shrink toward atomic dimensions, which they have for decades in accordance with Moore's Law, the behavior of electrons changes from being like particles described by classical physics to being like waves described by quantum mechanics.  Quantum analogs for  many traditional memory and processing functions will be available at extremely small sizes and low power utilization  Advanced algorithms for data discovery and management information systems are rapidly increasing in complexity There are increasingly g reater volumes of data, users processes, and transactions with greater interdependencies between these components. Although the range of available storage, user interface, and computing devices is increasing the need for advanced data processing and mana gement systems is also increasing rapidly.  There are many advances currently which are fueled by internet services growth.  An example is Hadoop, with a 223map/reduce\224 algorithm, which distributes the application among many processors and databases. It is \223 open source\224 software that enables distributed parallel processing of huge amounts of data across inexpensive, commodity servers. The value proposition of Hadoop is to \223create solutions from big data.\224  The drivers behind all of this are the increasingly s ophisticated demands of the user. Where workers were once content to engage in data environments for simple communications and number crunching, the norm these days is a highly collaborative 223 always on 224  experience in which the entire relationship between individual and work environment is defined by the level of access to IT resources  Current research is not focused on making more information available, but on conserving scarce human attention so that it can focus on the information that is most importan t and most relevant to the decisions that have to be made. To do this, researchers are drawing upon artificial intelligence \(AI and using cognitive sciences to assess the information capabilities of human beings and how to best present the value added dat a  For example, Northrop Grumman has introduced an UAS  data management system to the European market, to allow troops on the ground to "eliminate the tunnel vision of the battlefield." The HART \(heterogeneous airborne reconnaissance team\ allows soldiers a t small unit level to benefit from the plethora of assets overflying the battlespace without their own UA S   IT Summary 227 Although forecasting specific technologies to emerge over 20 years is not productive, it can be stated that an IT revolution \(i.e., high processing power, large memory availability, along with advanced AI and cognitive based data processing systems\ will provide the technology enablers that UA S  markets require for rapid market expansion into the commercial and military fields. What remains  to be done to create an explosive worldwide UA S  markets is  to provide the regulatory enablers for allow ing  efficient operation of UA S s  4   U AS  MISSIONS  The example  UAS missions  surveyed in this study  can be described in a manner that permits rapid identifi cation of key traits required for mission accomplishment. UAS missions are so numerous in purpose and diverse in operational nature that it is best to describe their scope using a generalized and comprehensive classification scheme. We begin by listing the  descriptive dimensions of UAS missions at the highest level in the classification scheme. These dimensions include User Class, Mission Purpose, Scale of Mission, Control Paradigm, and Operational Characteristics all of which can be further decomposed int o sub headings indicating the major components of each dimension, e.g 223User Class\224 contains sub headings of Military, Public Commercial, and Private.  A third level of detail is provided through selection of specific elements with each subheading to com plete the description  In this mission classification scheme, the first two high level dimensions, User Class and Purpose, describe what is to be done and who is executing the mission This makes the classification method more valuable   because there ar e some  missions seeking  UAS capable of performing them while on the flipside there are  other highly developed  UAS  seeking  missions and user  bases  As such, t his mission classification method may be used in either direction 226  for mission planners to descri be the needed UAS capability or for UAS manufacturers to market a range of uses \(missions and users that could benefit from their existing UAS design having standardized characteristic definitions  The following sections briefly introduce the UAS mission  classification scheme  User Class  Military 227 This user class includes the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Special Operations units, Reserve and National Guard units, and the Coast Guard  Publi c 227 This user class includes governments and government agencies at  federal, state and local levels. State police and militias are in this class, as are local law enforcement agencies and other government services at all levels  Commercial 227 This user class includes all companies or business partnerships operating UAS or ca using them to be operated in the course of their business  Private 227 This class of users includes all individuals or groups of citizens operating UAS for recreation competition, or any other private endeavor  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  9  Mission Purpose  Intelligence, Surveillance, Rec onnaissance 227 This is one of the largest purpose categories. It is first broken into the type of surveillance sensor, such as visual, infrared, radio frequency   or other electromagnetic field measurements Next, it is described by the field of view in the mi ssion, such as large \(bigger than a building\ or small. Within these descriptors, large field of view missions may be sensed all at once \(simultaneous\ or sequentially. Small field of view missions are described as having a fixed or a moving objective, suc h as a person or vehicle. The update rate of the surveillance can range from a single snapshot to a high speed motion picture and everything in between. The final descriptor is the latency of the data received by the operator  Payload Delivery 227 T his catego ry includes cargo transport and a number of classifying descriptors such as \223single point delivery\224, \223distributed delivery\224, \223find and deliver.\224  Environmental 227 The Environmental mission purpose includes measuring, monitoring some parameter, or altering the environment in some fashion. Meteorological sensing noise monitoring, climate monitoring, and the measurement of atmospheric aerosols are all examples of this mission purpose category  Search and Rescue 227 Search and Rescue is a specialized mission that is n ow mainly search in support of a rescue mission. Eventually it will involve finding and retrieving  persons or objects and returning them to a designated point  Training 227 The Training mission purpose cuts across all users, scales, and most control paradigms Training refers not just to the remote pilots of UAS but to other \223mission specialists\224 who will control aspects of the mission other than manipulating or directing the UAS vehicle itself  Pilot Augmentation 227 UAS technologies for controlling aircraft aut onomously may be applied to manned aircraft in a manner to replace one of the pilots and still maintain the required safety in the event of incapacitation of the remaining pilot. This could significantly improve the safety of existing single pilot operatio ns as well as provide large cost savings to current operations which now require two pilot crews  Relay 227 The purpose of Relay missions is to relay communications to or from a location that is otherwise incapable of communicating  Robotics 227 UAS may perform robotic control of remote agents. This could be to retrieve something that first has to be disconnected or to manipulate a remote object in some fashion to enable it to perform its function. This purpose could be called \223find and fix.\224  Rec reation 227 In terms of pure numbers, most UAS, until recently have been radio controlled models built and flown by hobbyists. These have become increasingly sophisticated over the years as all of the required technologies have matured and become smaller, ligh ter, and less expensive  Unique Specialized Missions 227 The Unique Specialized Mission category is a catch all for one of a kind missions that do  not  fit well with the broader categories but are nonetheless important in their own right  Scale of Mission  Geo graphic Size 227 Geographic size describes the physical size of the area of operation or mission coverage  Temporal Extent 227 Temporal extent describes the timing aspects of the mission. Some missions may be \223out and back\224 with no time spent at the destination o ther than to deliver the payload, collect the data, or make a marketing appearance. Other missions require a long loiter time waiting to detect an event or to monitor for a slow change in some observed variable  Payload Size 227 Payload size refers to the wei ght of anything carried by the UAS other than the lift and propulsion systems. More than anything else, this element will determine the physical size of the UAS  Cost  The cost of the mission is that part of the cost/benefit equation that determines the ec onomic viability of any UAS mission. Cost includes use of the vehicle\(s\, the supporting control and communications infrastructure, and the launch and recovery areas and systems  Control Paradigm  As discussed earlier, the control paradigms  which must be considered while selecting a UAS for a mission are   Remote Human Pilot 226  Real Time Flight Control   Remote Human Pilot 226  Mission Objectives Only   Human Controlled Initiation / Termination 226  Autonomous Execution   Multi Vehicle Cooperative Control   Operational Characteristics  Multi User Airport 227 Those missions that involve the transport of cargo or, eventually, people, will want to share the groundside infrastructure that already exists at current airports for handling and processing these payloads  Using shared airports also simplifies the often extensive and expensive approval processes required to gain access to new operating areas  Private Use STOL Facility 227 With modest real estate requirements, a short field runway with supporting 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  10  command and cont rol facilities can be established to provide greater operational security without the complication of traffic integration at a joint use airport during launch and recovery operations  Fling and Snare 227 Some missions may use a vehicle that requires forward mo tion for generating lift, but may be catapulted into the air and snared during recovery without damaging the vehicle or its contents during a landing  Line of Si ght 227 This operational characteristic requires that the vehicle be in sight of the operator throu ghout the mission. While simplifying control links and operational approvals, it severely limits the utility of most missions  Telemetry 227 The amount of telemetry required is often inversely proportional to the degree of autonomy of mission control describe d above. The more autonomous the UAS is in performing its mission, the lower the requirement for telemetry during the mission   Class G Airspace Only 227 Mission operations carried out exclusively in Class G airspace face the smallest approval hurdles from the standpoint of air traffic integration. It is legal even today to fly manned aircraft in instrument meteorological conditions IMC   in Class G airspace without an ATC clearance  Class A through E Airspace with Traffic Integration 227 It is difficult for a UAV to know whether it is flying in Visual Meteorological Conditions VMC   or IMC Therefore, most missions will have to be presumed to be in IMC and operate under IFR when in controlled airspace. This operational characteristic place s a tremendous burden on the UAS operator by having to participate in the ATC process, even when the launch and recovery of the mission is non interfering    5  E CONOMICS  Business models are a method of describing  what the business does and how it generates revenue The model tells the story of the business and how the elements of that business work together to produce value that a customer would want. The model also describes how the business differentiates itself from other competition in the same  product area   7    T h i s st o r y o f  b u s i n e ss h e l p s o t h e r s  understand the business, is useful in securing capital for business growth, and provides a way of categorizing a particular business relative to other businesses and its competitors  Business models h ave been shown to be more predictive of revenue than other classical classifications of a business 2005, Peter Weill et. al As such, we have adopted an approach that makes use of business models to test a range of approaches for generation of revenue for UAS applications  Civil Businesses  With such a rapid growth in UAS for military applications it is logical that many of the civil benefits will flow from military applications. However, over time, UAS will create its own unique civil applications For development of the civil business models, the following opportunities have been chosen   Direct Transfer of Military Application to Civil Use  226  Cargo delivery, where stocks are delivered to remote locations to support construction and where resupply is performed for offshore oil platforms   Modification of Military Application to Civil Use  226  Police operations, both in Intelligence  Surveillance  and Recognizance   ISR   and in supplement or replacement of civil flight operations by law enforcement   Modificat ion of Civil Manned Application to Unmanned  226  Power line and pipeline inspections   Modification of Civil Terrestrial Activity to UAS  226  Agriculture crop monitoring for application of fertilizer pesticides, and watering   UAS Unique Civil Applications  226  1 Augmented flight assistance, leveraging optionally piloted aircraft technologies to improve safety and reduce the need for redundant pilot staffing, and \(2\ media communications relays at high altitude   For this study, the business modeling approach used is mobile application to do the characterizing businesses. This is an on line resource for development of business models and can be found at   http://www.businessmodelgeneration.com  along with supporting tools to build a business model   The Business Model Canvas 251  The Business Model Canvas documents nine attributes of a business   Key Partners  226  Who do we need involved in our business to be successful   Key Activities  226  What activities do we need to realize the Value Proposition   Key Resources  226  What res ources does our Value Proposition require   Value Proposition  226  What value are we delivering to our customer   Customer Relationships  226  What types of relationships are needed to deliver the Value Proposition   Customer Segments  226  Who will use the creat ed  value     Channels  226  Through what channels does our customer want to be reached   Cost Structure  226  What are the most important costs inherent in our business model   Revenue Streams  226  For what value are our customers really willing to pay   


  Paper 2581 Version 2  11  These nine attribu tes have been used in this study to define a limited set of business models for civil use of UAS as a means of demonstrating the utility of business modeling Each of these attributes illustrates  a particular application or grouping of applications for use  of UAS.  Multiple current and near future applications are being considered, including    1  D elivery of cargo in remote areas 226  UAS offer efficiencies in terms of access, productivity timeliness, and potentially service quality   2  P olice operations 226  UAS use in DoD surveillance operations has created a market opportunity for similar use in civilian markets   3  Power line and pipeline inspection 226  Long distance detailed inspections requiring extensive hovering or repeated fly bys for inspection of worn components are well suited for execution with UAS   4  Agricultural use for management of crops and livestock 226  A UAS fitted with visual and IR sensors can fly over farm fields and locate pests weeds, and diseases, significantly improving the application of pesticides a t reduced loading to the crops and soil   5  Augmented flight assistance for manned flight 226  Business opportunities in this category range from transfer of technology from UAS experience to the cockpit to provide the pilot with a pilot\222s assistant to Optionall y Piloted Aircraft \(OPA\ where the aircraft is capable of human piloted and autonomous flight   and  6  Communications media relay 226  A UAS stays on station and provides the ability to connect users with a ground station for distribution of information to a lar ger customer base   Business model canvases have been created for each of the six applications cited above.  Fictitious companies were used; however, plausible circumstances, company relationships, and market opportunities were generated  to maximize relevance  Technology Transfer  The U.S. Government, especially through the D oD has made a significant investment to produce unmanned aircraft While less reliable than civilian certified manned aircraft these flying platforms are primaril y used to replace manned missions where risks are high or to provide an \223eye in the sky\224 extending the reconnaissance capabilities of the soldier on the ground. Long loiter times for sensors have proven their worth in battle areas. Patrol capabilities to s eek and detect threats have significantly improved both the vehicles and the sensors they carry  The market value is in the applications, not the aerial platform. The technology transfer that is needed is the adaptation of military technology for civilian  applications the freeing up of flight restrictions to stimulate application development, and the generation of revenue in the private sector through delivery of new ways of gathering information and converting that information for commercial use 227 whether  to reduce cost of existing activities or create new opportunities  Technology transfer can be divided into two major categories:  the transfer of aviation technology to manned flight, and the transfer of sensor technologies for adaptation in the civil mar ket  Aviation Technology 227 this is mainly  technology deployed in avionics  i.e systems that control flight, provide navigation, and support systems monitoring  Some examples of short term technology transfer opportunities include   Small autopilots that can be adapted for use in general aviation aircraft to improve performance and offer value added features at lower cost. The technology transfer is geared toward adapting autonomous flight opportunities from UASs to general aviation a ircraft   Sense and avoid technologies could aid general aviation safety, since most general aviation aircraft do not carry collision avoidance systems   Fuel and engine management systems used for optimizing loiter can be added to a Pilot Assistant for man ned aircraft  Autonomy must pass a major hurdle, that of attaining what the Air Force calls \223certifiable trust in autonomy.\224 The processes for certification are an area of joint collaboration between the military and civil sectors. New methods of Verifica tion and Validation \(V&V\ will be needed, and this V&V must be certifiably reliable, meaning there are scientific and engineering processes to prove performance  Sensor Technology 227 Electro optical video and IR, synthetic aperture radars, ground penetrating  radars, laser targeting systems make up the suite of current sensors. T he trend is to  produce the same or better performance with less system weight systems. This is coupled with the use of signal and information processing to improve the product sensing  for the operator. Approximately 80 percent of the commercial market will be realized in small UASs, where weight is a key factor. The vast majority of the users of the information the sensors capture will not be for a warfighter mission Therefore, inform ation presentation in usable forms will be essential to commercial success  Mapping technologies will need to be adapted to accept UAS derived information. The fight track, the sensor data and the underlying mapping must merge in order to realize the ben efits of sensor payloads on UAS. The technology transfer is a combination of information registry and visualization coupled with greater virtual reality 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  12  applications, where information is presented with the fundamental concept that the viewer is there, see ing what the UAS platform is enabling the sensor to detect  Commercialization Benefits 227 The transition from military and Government use to commercial use of UAS represents a new aviation industry. While the initial market will be in producing the flying pl atform and its sensors, the longer term market is in the information the sensors produce. When coupled with detailed mapping information through a geographical information system \(GIS new opportunities are created, from the farmer or rancher, to the larg e timber company, to water management authorities, to any case where a business involves land use  While most of the UAS industry is focused on a derivative of current military uses for security and police operations the civil industry is looking to use the UAS as a platform to produce revenue from the data derived through the sensors  Taking a longer view, the benefits are clear   Lower labor costs to accomplish tasks that are now performed by manned flight     Lower labor costs through a faster way to aut onomously gather information needed     Lower labor costs in land use field surveys and management    Greater use of information to manage application of water, fertilizers, pesticides, timing of crop harvests and management to produce greater yields \(from cor n to timber    Improvements in water management and allocation through use of GIS technologies paired with UAS sensor information    Reduced cost of environmental oversight and enforcement    Improved public safety through surveillance    Improved flight safety t hrough technology transfer from UAS to manned flight operations    Recognition of UAS flights as a data collection tool with the market driven by the information gained   Ease of operation to attain the data through information processing and presentation   The commercialization of UAS technology  and its capability to collect surveillance information  is limited by constraints imposed by the federal regulatory actions aviation\ and by general citizen concern over law enforcement applications of surveillance a nd the right to privacy. Both of these barriers will be overcome, but not without an impact on the economics of UAS. This delay will likely defer commercialization benefits and present additional obstacles to market entry  6  M ARKET B ARRIERS  Legal and Regulatory Policies and Procedures  The anticipated expansion of UAS into a myriad of public private, and commercial missions routinely using the national airspace alongside other air traffic has highlighted both the UAS operational needs and the public co ncerns associated with those operations. The Federal Aviation Authority\222s FAA's   Interim Operational Approval Guidance 08 01  gives the rules for gaining approval to operate UAS in the NAS and the operating limitations that are imposed on those flights. In  general, the rules for manned aircraft governing vehicle airworthiness, pilots maintenance, and use of the airspace have been directly applied to UAS operations with the caveat that relaxation of some of these rules may be granted if FAA accepts an opera tor proposed safety case using the regulatory process known as Alternate Methods of Compliance." Lacking that the UA S  must meet equivalent certification standards usually experimental category\, and be flown by a licensed pilot. Except in Class A airspa ce, UAS must be flown in VMC in sight of the pilot or, if a chase plane is used, in sight of the observer. UAS are to be maintained like a manned aircraft. All UAS flights in the NAS require a Certificate of Waiver or Authorization \(COA\, typically valid f or up to a year, obtained by submitting an application and receiving specific approval by the FAA  T he time and cost barriers these policies and procedures place in the way of achieving UAS benefits  are well documented Efforts are under way at FAA and th rough the RTCA Special Committee s  203  and 228  to create standards specifically for UAS of varying size and sophistication and for realistic operating procedures which would permit using their unique capabilities while still safeguarding the public Once in  place, these new standards will eliminate the time consuming COA process  Social Issues  Even when these technical and safety concerns are overcome, there is still a growing barrier to widespread use of UAS in the NAS brought on by the public's privacy con cerns. The most widely used mission for UAS is ISR, or more simply, surveillance. As many missions provide low altitude, high resolution surveillance, the privacy rights of citizens caught collaterally in the surveillance, must be protected  Articles in th e popular press have conjured up visions of thousands of prying eyes in the sky watching every move a person makes and continuously advising the authorities of individual's locations and activities. Even though a pro UAS bill was recently passed mandating the FAA to integrate UAS into the NAS by 2015   the government will also have to deal with the public's concern over privacy and the fears created by seeing numerous drones overhead, often at low altitude, regardless of how noble the purpose of their missio n  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  13  Environmental Impacts  Many proposed UAS missions identified earlier would place the vehicles in close proximity to persons who are not directly involved in the UAS operation. Civilian store deliver ies for example, could require a package drop off in cl ose vicinity to populated areas  The noise produced by the UAV being close to people could mean the difference between the success or failure of this type of business  Helicopters are notoriously loud noise producers Additionally, their blades are hazardous to be around. The wind produced by their hovering lift can also be strong enough to damage articles that are not either heavy or tied down. The fumes and gaseous e missions produced by the powerplants will be subject to the same environmental scrutiny  of all other transportation appliances and vehicles  Larger payloads and long endurance can be achieved quietly using lighter than air \(LTA\ or hybrid LTA vehicles with  multi mode propulsion capabilities. The lift required to keep large payloads aloft is not obtained aerodynamically, but through buoyancy, which is completely silent. This lift also produces no emissions, so if the thrust can be hybrid electric, most envir onmental concerns can be overcome.  A hybrid turbine electric propulsion system may also be capable of providing low noise periods of flight before and after which batteries are re charged.  The basic idea is that a battery powered ducted fan eliminates th e need for noisy gearboxes to operate during a noise sensitive leg of flight D Star Engineering is prototyping such a capability with funding from the I ntelligent Advanced research Projects Agency \(I ARPA   Other  There are other more subtle potential barri ers to acceptance of widespread use of UAS in the NAS Cost is still a significant factor for all but recreational radio controlled models. The costs of even experimental certification, pilot and mechanic training, salaries for pilots, mechanics, and other  mission specialists needed to carry out a drone mission, and the still relatively poor accident record for UAS, which can result in total loss of the expensive vehicles, are all substantial  Insurance costs for UAS operations over cities and towns are st ill being determined as actuarial data is slowly accumulated.  No matter how quiet or clean it is, the sight of a large vehicle passing overhead where none had been before may  draw complaints and political pressure to restrict or ban their operations  This  is not to suggest that these barriers cannot be overcome to the benefit of many domestic civil and military UAS missions. The concerns need to be understood and addressed so that their potential to stop the use of UAS is neutralized The technical barrier s are much simpler to overcome than the political and social ones, so continuous public education about the benefits of UAS use and the measures taken to ensure the safety and privacy of the general public is essential  7   UAS  F UTURE F ORECASTS  From resourc es reviewed during the study, the team developed the two forecasts: one for the military and public growth of  UAS  Figure 5  and one for the growth in civil use UAS  Figure 6  Under the FAA perspective   the definition of \223public\224 means federal agencies, s tate and local government organization \(including law enforcement and public universities These curves represent market 223demand\224 projections   Figure 5 2015 2035 Forecast for UAS DoD and Public  UAS   Figure 6 2015 2035 Forecast for Total Public and  Commercial UAS  8   C ONSTRAINTS AND I NFLUENCES ON UAS  T ECHNOLOGY  The technical team participating in the study  identified  listing of the top factors  that most likely will constrain UAS growth   These factors are  integrated functions drawn from the study areas when view ed as total system. The top six were determined to be of the most interest   Communication, Command and Control  needs to ensure pilot operators and air traffic controllers have clear, concise, and timely communications  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  14   Flight i nformation and processing   Presentation and projection of flight profiles   Real time operational information   Managing both pilot operator and air traffic controller workloads   Procedural processes supported by enhanced automation capabilities   Control sector complexity and management   Separation a ssurance   Airspace d esign and p rocedures   Investment in resolving these constraints  will drive the rate of adoption in civil UAS operations in the NAS One p art of the investment will be driven by the FAA\222s \223F acilities and Equipment\224 F&E Budget over  the next ten years Another part will be driven by defense and federal investment  in R&D  The remaining part will be driven by private investment seeking to develop profitable supplie r s and manufacturing firms of UAS Unfortunately   private investment will not fully launch until there is a clear indication of the public investment into implementing the requisite air traffic management  and air traffic control  ATM/ATC changes into the NAS infrastructure and there i s a common  approach through avionic standards in UA V  equipage   It is expected that avionic standards would lower the end user costs The impact on NAS infrastructure is the outline in the following subsection  Today\222s Air Traffic Control System  Today\222s air traffic control system is built around four basic pillars. These are communications, navigation, surveillance and infrastructure. The mortar holding these pillars together is aviation policy, rules and procedures  The FAA Air Traffic Organizat ion \(ATO\ has identified over 25 FAA procedural orders and notices that will need to be revised to accommodate routine  UAS operations in the NAS. This does not include advisory and informational materials that need to be developed and briefed to air traffi c controllers, pilots and other aviation stakeholders Additionally NAS investments to accommodate UAS efforts and associated costs must extend  beyond training requirements and procedural developments to include modification of infrastructure to permit an d to optimize efficiency and safety of UAS operations in the NAS  The majority of UAS operating in the NAS today are predominantly operated by the DoD. They were not designed with NAS compatibility in mind but rather to meet military mission needs. It is e xpected future commercial UAS will be designed and operated much more along the lines of manned aircraft. For example, current DoD UAS do not have Flight Management Systems and associated NAS aeronautical database and cannot be program m ed to fly approved F AA instrument procedures such as an instrument landing system \(ILS\ approach. Future commercial UAS operating in the NAS will need have integrated avionics systems and NAS capabilities similar to those of manned aircraft. However, unique challenges associa ted with UAS will remain and drive functional changes across many NAS project and programs. Some of these anticipated drivers or changes are listed by FAA program area below  En Route Automation Modernization \(ERAM 227 ERAM will be impacted by the need to be able to accept and process and display lengthy and complex UAS flight plans that include automated flight profile contingencies to the air traffic controller. This includes the ability to display a 20 minute planned route of flight on a controller\222s displa y suite  ERAM needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in an en route center airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained  COA  process now is in use  Nati onal Voice System \(NVS  227 Future air traffic control voice switching systems must be able to provide timely and direct pilot to controller voice and data e.g text messaging\ communications via Voice Over Internet Protocol \(V o IP  Terminal Automation Mode rnization and Replacement TAMR  227 TAMR needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in a terminal airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained COA  process now is use. TAMR also needs to be able to surveil approved UAS flights within the terminal environment  Terminal Information Display System \(IDS\ and En Route Information Display System \(ERIDS  227 Information support systems need to be able to inges t to and  to rapidly display unique local procedures and associated graphics associated with UAS operations. These include pilot communications and UAV control lost ink procedures  System Wide Information Management \(SWIM  227 SWIM  must be able to rapidly mov e critical UAS information around the NAS to provide the right information to the right controller or pilot at the right time and in the desired  format  Flight Information Exchange Model \(FIXM  227 UAS flight information needs to move to and from other Air Navigation Service Providers \(ANSP\ throughout the world and new data terminology must be created that supports the collection, processing and dissemination of UAS movements through the airspace  Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions \(ATCOTS  227 UAS provides new training challenges for FAA in creating new teaching curricula that contains new procedures and paradigms used to accommodate UAS safely and efficiently in the NAS. This is notable c hallenge given 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  15  the diversity and dynamic of evolving UAS technologies and missions  Future Facilities 227 FAA real estate assets may likely be affected as new UAS related systems are development and deployed. UAS NAS integration may drive additional FAA manpow er needs for positions of operations, coordination and management. This may require additional physical footprints to accommodate new positions of operations personnel and their supporting infrastructure  Next Generation Weather Processor \(NWP\ and Weathe r and Radar Processor \(WARP  227 The removal of a pilot in the cockpit also removes the ability to \223see\224 from a traditional pilot\222s perspective. Not only does this relate to the need for electronic systems for detect and avoid \(i.e., the FAR reference 91.113 for see and avoid\ but also affects many aspects of flight safety associated with detection and avoidance of hazardous weather from visual perspective of the manned cockpit. Determination of flight visibility is one such factor. It should also be noted tha t many of the UAS flying in the NAS today have a very low tolerance to hazardous weather such as turbulence and icing  Detect and Avoid \(DAA  227  Depending upon architecture and functionality, detect and avoid for UAS could have a profound impact on a variety of FAA systems and infrastructure components. DAA can be airborne based, and affect Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS B\ In and Out and an associated Cockpit Display of Traffic Information \(CDTI\nd Traffic Alert and Collision Avoida nce System \(TCAS\ functionality, including designs for the new Next Generation Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems \(ACAS X\. GBSAA that leverages ASR 11 Surveillance Radars and Standard Terminal Automation Replacement Systems \(STARS\ or TAMR also demands automation and surveillance system modification to provide this capability. Additional future work on portable primary three dimensional \(3D\ radars integrated in the NAS will also demand close analysis  The previous overview of FAA air traffic control sys tems gives insight in the investment required to be undertaken within the F AA\222s F&E  budget It also s erve s to illustrate the pervasiveness of changes that the UAS will eventually have on air traffic control and its supporting  ATM  infrastructure   It is impo rtant to recognize these ATM/ATC changes need to be planned for, funded and deployed. It must also be recognized that these UAS related investments do not stand alone in that these changes must be done while other planned ATC system improvements are taking  place I nvestments   such as   the Surveillance Broadcast System Program  National Voice Switch, Future Cyber Security Data Communications, and others are planned under the Next Generation Air Transport System  NextGen and others  Obviously   if future UA S forecasts are to be sustained it will entail a major shift in current FAA investment in addition to the  currently planned funding of NextGen  The forecasts outlined in this paper  will require an increase in funding levels of between $500 million and $1 billion dollars per year over and above current FAA requested F&E funding levels   Doing so will greatly facilitate realization of the $30 billion per year UAS market  9   S UMMARY  From an aviation perspective, UAS represents a new and disruptive technology  challenging the staid institutions policy, procedures and technologies that exist today and have served manned aircraft well for the last fifty years or more. This UAS technology supports an incredibly wide range of uses that not only allows old challeng es to be addressed in new ways but also creates new innovative world markets for hundreds, if not thousands, of new creative applications answering the call of \223better, faster and cheaper.\224  A growing number of early adopters and innovators of aviation tech nologies are beginning to realize the significance of a growing diversity and number of UAS  This growth  is  driven by a confluence of technological developments in airframes, powerplants, sensor s command and control sys tems and information management The  economic  value  of this industry projected to be $30 billion per year supporting 300,000 American jobs by 2035   As concluded b y the study team   the realization of UAS market forecasts will be constrained  unless key investment is performed in   The NAS ATC/A TM facilities needed to be updated to support new aircraft performance and controller capabilities   Training for ATC to be ready to adopt the new unmanned aircraft performance with acceptable workload    ATC to pilot communications that have the availability  integrity confidentiality and continuity as to not heavily impact either  pilot o r  controller workload   Development of Civil standards for the c ontrol and communications data link that w ill foster low cost access for a b road  range of UAS 226  this could in clude standards of f orm, fit and function as well as covering signal in space  networked channel  access and common control exchange applications    This key investment will develop a C 3  approach to support NAS integration.  It is agreed that other areas such as of DAA are important for investment, but there are already multiple economic incentive s  following this path  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  16  R EFERENCES  1 223 Unmanned Aircraft System \(UAS\ Service Demand 2015 2 035: Literature Review and Projections of Future Usage 224  Volpe National Transportation Systems Center Cambridge MA September 2013, Version 0.1   2 AINonline, June 8, 2012, Bill Carey   3  UAV Vision Pty Ltd  2/10 Uralla Street  P ort  M acquarie  NSW 2444  Australia   4  M1 D  Thermal FLIR PTZ Camera, Sierra Pacific Corporation, Las Vegas, NV   5   Experimental Advanced Research Lidar  USGS.gov  Retrieved 8 August 2007   6  Luke Wallace  Arko Lucieer  Christopher Watson and Darren Turner 223Devel opment of a UAV LiDAR System with Application to Forest Inventory\224, Remote Sensing Volume 4 issue 6, May 25 2012 http://www.mdpi.com/2072 4292/4/6/1519  7 M ag r et t a  J o a n  223 Wh y B u s i n e s s M o d e l s M at t er  224 H ar v a r d  Business Review, pp 3 8, May 2002   B IOGRAPH IES  Chris Wargo  is a program manager and director business development for Mosaic ATM, Inc 226  a firm specializing in air traffic management systems development unmanned systems and data management systems for the aviation sector. He also leads the Autonomous  Systems Group and  served as a Chair of the System Engineering Working Group of RTCA SC 203  He has also held positions as President of Computer Network Software, Inc., Vice President and General Manager for ARINC, Inc., C3I Program Manager RC A Automated Systems and GE, as well as Systems Engineer for GTE Sylvania, Electronic Systems Group, and the US Army. In his role as a leader in aviation  next generation systems engineering, he has participated in numerous ICAO, RTCA AEEC, IEEE and IATA c ommittees and standards working groups throughout his 30 year defense and aeronautical systems career. He has presented a number of papers and chaired many industry conference sessions related to the CNS and network system programs, project and technologie s of the general, business and air transport community.   He has a BSEE from the University of Wisconsin and an MS, Systems Engineering, from the University of Southern California, and has attended the Defense Systems Management College and the Advanced Ma nagement Program at the Harvard Business Sch ool    Jason Glaneuski  is a Program Manager and Operations Research Analyst in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center \(Volpe Center\ in Cambridge, MA His  Division applies information technology and operations research disciplines to enhance the capacity, safety and security of the National Airspace System. A key component of this work is developing concepts and designing automated decision support tools a nd capabilities  that provide solutions to existing and anticipated traffic flow issues. Mr. Glaneuski has experience both performing and managing technical work in the areas of traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM and unmanned aircraft systems \(UAS\ sense and avoid SAA\, among others. Mr. Glaneuski is a graduate of Daniel Webster College in Nashua, NH, where he received his B.S in Aviation Management and Flight Operations. Prior to joining the Volpe Center in 2001, Mr. Glaneus ki worked for the FAA\222s Free Flight Program Office in Washington, D.C   Mark Strout  is an Operations Research Analyst and Project Manager in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe Center in Cambridge, MA. Mr. Strout provides project oversight and technical expertise attendant to several ATM related concepts and capabili ties, including traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM\, National Airspace System Common Reference \(NCR unmanned aircraft systems and flow based trajectory management \(FBTM\. Mr. Strout is a graduate of the University of Virgini a, where he received his B.S. in Aerospace Engineering   Gary Churc h is the President of Aviation Management Associates, Inc. a Washington, DC based aviation firm established in 1984 to provide consulting services related to the Federal Aviation Administ ration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Mr. Church leads a team of two dozen aviation domain experts. He is a former air traffic controller and Manager of Air Traffic Control for the Air Transport Association \(now known as Airlines fo r America as well as an instrument rated pilot. Mr. Church has authored many air traffic control related articles and reports over the years as well participat ing  in numerous  key aviation related committees on behalf of FAA and others Mr. Church majored in Economics and Physics at the Un iversity of California Berkeley       
























































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


