Knowledge Workers and the Realm of Social Tagging  Ralph Boeije Alares Ralph.Boeije@Alares.nl  Gwendolyn L. Kolfschoten Delft University of Technology g.l.kolfschoten@tudelft.nl  Pieter de Vries Delft University of Technology pieter.devries@tudelft.nl Wim Veen Delft University of Technology W.Veen@tudelft.nl   Abstract  Social tagging is a relati vely new type of social software that stores 
user-generated textual keywords to describe a resource or aspects of that resource In this paper we explore the mechanisms that social tagging can trigger to change the behavior of knowledge workers. We argue that social tagging has the potential to activate mechanisms of connection management and sociality in the context of knowledge work. To understand social tagging as a trigger for behavioral change, we explored the recent theoretical perspective of connectivism and connected knowledge. In connectivism connection maki ng and sociality are key elements of knowledge work Using this perspective we explore the realm of social tagging for knowledge 
workers  1. Introduction  Research strives to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of knowledge workers in various ways The use of Information Systems \(IS\for knowledge work has been successful in some cases, but has also led to disappointment  T o s u pport k n o w l edge  acquisition and knowledge sharing, most organizations established intranets, data warehouses, or other static repositories. These IS allow the storage and retrieval of codified information, such as presentations, best 
practices and reports Th es e sy s t e m s w e re m e a n t  to support knowledge acquisition and knowledge sharing, such that the organizational knowledge would be more efficiently Of ten t h es e s y s t e m s are  not aligned with the daily practice of knowledge work and as a result they are hardly us Mos t  importantly, the information stored in these systems lack the context of its origination and use. Mainly endproducts are stored without any linkage to related, up to date projects and people Knowledge acquisition and knowledge sharing are 
less supported by these types of systems order  to share knowledge, the explicit dimension of knowledge \(e.g. reports and presentations\as to be extended with the tacit dimension made of context and experience. Context determines the quality of the knowledge sharing, and in turn, the knowledge acquisition Kn o w ledg e i s th ere f ore shared best in a good conversation as it allows for rich embedded in w e v e r m o st k n o w l ed g e  workers have limited idea of what colleagues are working on or what they know about and only have 
limited time for conversations. This is caused by geographical distance, structural boundaries d a  knowledge hoarding culture [7  A r e so l u t i o n fo r t h i s  can be found in the use of social software  Social software is considered to overcome the disadvantages of the current IS systems for knowledge work and to support knowledge application  Social software is broadly defined as all software that aims to simplify the realization and preservation of 
networks among people 13 o cial s o f t w a re allo w s  users to interact digitally, to create content collaboratively, and to struct ure information together In the consumer market social software is found to support network formation and information exchange processes w h ic h can h e l p to act as a h u m a n f i l t er  to prevent information overload of other knowledge workers The goal of this paper is to assess the potential of a part of the social software suite, social tagging, to support knowledge work. We are not only concerned 
with the practical value of this tool, but focus mainly on the theoretical basis for this value. We specifically address the views of connectivism d s o ciali t y   e aim to ide n ti fy t h e  m e c h a n is m s b y  w h ich social tagging triggers knowledge workers to adapt their \(social\avior such that they more collaboratively and more efficiently apply organizational knowledge   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


2. Knowledge Management  Fahey and Prusak found that a working definition of knowledge is critical when thinking about the support for knowledge work [9 e ou r w o rki ng definition on the analysis of Knowledge Management KM\oaches and the views on knowledge that sustain them  2.1. Views on knowledge  In her longitudinal assessment of KM literature Jakub oun d th a t KM approach es are bas e d on specific views with regard to the nature and origin of knowledge. She identifies two views, the commodity and the community view. These views are directly related to notions of explicit and tacit knowledge in the work of Nonaka and Takeuchi [21  The commodity view on knowledge is a managerial approach to knowledge, where knowledge is understood as a static organizational resource, as a commodity  o labeled s o cial capital. T h e commodity view starts from the premise that knowledge is, or can be, made explicit by an individual. Knowledge \(explicit knowledge\s considered as an asset or a resource of a company which can be stored and shared holistically. This commodity view is used in most mainstream KM literature The community view starts from the premise that knowledge is embedded in social context [16, p  The community view of knowledge assumes that knowledge is shared and constructed within organizations through a continuous process of dialog and interactions, and that knowledge is imbued with routines, standards, and with day-to-day practices This view considers knowledge to have both a tacit and an explicit dimension, but asserts that this knowledge can only be created and shared through participation in a social process. In this view, the role of individual knowledge creation is only marginal The KM approaches that have surfaced in the last ten to fifteen years are based on either of these two views on knowledge. The commodity view is apparent in KM approaches that focus on establishing IS were knowledge can be stored. The community view led to social KM approaches, such as job-rotation, fostering communities of practice, and knowledge sharing meetings. Both the commodity and the community view can be valuable when their limitations are carefully considered. However, given the complex nature and origin of knowledge, the KM approaches should be combined, linked, and intertwined, such that a practice emerges that embraces this complexity. This would pave the way for KM approaches that value the complexity of knowledge and therefore deliver value to knowledge workers r e cen t  y ears  a n e w  v i e w  on knowledge emerged that could be positioned at the centre of the dimensions of the nature and the origin of knowledge; connectivism. Figure 1 represents the identified views on knowledge with connectivism as a uniting concept in the middle. Next we will describe the connectivism perspective in more detail    Figure 1 Views on knowledge   2.2. Connectivist view on knowledge  Connectivism as presented by Siemen   relates to social con s tr u c ti v i s m 43], bu t incorporates recent changes of the way people work with knowledge in his new concept on knowledge and learning. These changes concern changing communication patterns, increasingly distributed knowledge, and changes in the technology that supports knowledge work 42 L a s t l y it al s o  provides for a different way of understanding knowledge, knowledge sharing and learning Connectivism to 'know' is to be organized in a certain way, to have a certain regularly occurring pattern of neural activity - and consequently, a disposition to behave [8 This understanding of knowledge as a distributed resource is also held by Polanyi w h o  considers the process of knowing as connecting fragmentary clues from memory which are integrated under categories. Connectivism transposes this neurological understanding to the practice of knowledge work. It therefore holds that knowledge resides in networks of distributed knowledge sources such as people, the internet, and repositories. It assumes that knowing is making connections or the process of network development With regard to the tacit vs. explicit knowledge debate, connectivism holds that knowledge possesses different states along a continuum 29, p. 18  this, Siemens follows the original work of Polanyi who considers all knowledge to have a tacit dimension. This means that knowledge can be embodied and therefore Community Nature of knowledge Origin of knowledge Legend  Individual  Explicit  Tacit Tacit vs  vs  Community Connectivism Social  Social View on knowledge Commodity Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


made partly explicit as long as it remains connected to the context in which it was created. When knowledge gets disconnected from context it becomes less valuable With regard to the origin of knowledge connectivism holds that knowledge rests in an individual; it resides in the collective [29, p.14   Knowledge is perceived to originate in the interaction of people and information and therefore to be a social process. New knowledge is created when people create new connections and this is thus at the same time an individual process. Siemens [27, p n o w l edg e s this paradox by emphasizing co-creation. Co-creation is a process in which the individual and the social blend and where knowledge is created through establishing connections with both internal and external knowledge. Building on the work of others in a co-creation process brings the individual input into the social context KM approaches that build on this view should focus on assisting knowledge workers to connect to relevant knowledge sources. Siemens states that KM should support the knowledge flow. This means that KM focuses on informal learning, co-creation, and communication, because together these processes provide the basis that is required to apply knowledge effectively t ex t to be v i sible, t h e  connections between knowledge parts should be made visible in a network view. The process to manage this network should be supported at both the internal individual\d the external \(social\vel. The individual should be supported such that the connection making \(or structuring\ effort is first of all useful for the individual itself. At the external level, the network management of each individual should be exposed to the network, such that the structuring effort becomes valuable for the whole organization. Overall the most important task of such a KM approach is to provide a knowledge environment that supports knowledge workers to manage connections to knowledge objects and knowledge sources  2.3. Connected knowledge  Based on the analysis of different knowledge views, we formulate a working definition of knowledge, which we term connected knowledge. The focus on connections between knowledge objects and knowledge sources provides a new dimension to the KM practice. We build our definition of knowledge on the widely accepted definition of knowledge by Tsoukas and Vladimirou [35, p. 97 h o h o l d t h at  knowledge is the individual ability to draw distinctions within a collective domain of action, based on an appreciation of context or theory or both To this definition, we add the notion of connection making on the basis of our analysis of connectivism and emphasize the paradox of the nature of knowledge Moreover, we extend this definition with the understanding that knowledge is a process \(following  16 2 5 In th is proces s  conn ections are m a de  between knowledge parts which exist distributed across a network of knowledge sources [29  I n  following the definition of w e co n s ider con t e x t to  be very important. Context is required to assess the relevance of connections to information sources and thus to the formation of a knowledge network \(also supported by d 32  o l l o w i ng 25] w e  contend that knowledge is personal - having a tacit dimension -, but at the same time connected - and thus social. The personal nature of knowledge is strongly linked to the importance of context. Connected knowledge is multidimensional \(tacit and explicit, see  an d th eref ore ev e n th e m o s t e x plicit kn o w ledge  has a tacit dimension; the contextual understanding of the knowledge parts \(data, information and people\d knowledge sources. Through this analysis, we have come to understand knowledge as connected knowledge, which is The ability to draw distinctions, which are required for action, through a social process of contextually connecting distributed, multi-dimensional knowledge objects that are located throughout a network of knowledge sources Given this definition, knowledge is connected knowledge requiring IS for knowledge work that support the social process of connection management   3. Supporting Connectivism  Huizin s c u s s e s t h e rol e of su bj ect i v i s m i n  IS support for knowledge management. Subjectivism is built upon the notions of human sensemaking interpretation differences between people and the role of context as a lens through which experiences are perceived The domain of subjectivist, practice-based information management is sociality-centered-aroundinformational objects [14, p. 17 These informational objects can be stored in IS and in human beings Huizing argues the IS support for knowledge work should not reduce knowledge objects to themselves but should see them as contextualized tools for meaning, understanding and learning This understanding is well aligned with the view of connectivism and our working definition of knowledge. Supporting the emergence of sociality around informational objects is closely related to supporting the creation and management of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


connections to knowledge parts in a social process. The creation of connections is a core element of sociality because it supports the interaction that enables sociality to emerge. In conclusion, we argue that from this perspective, IS support for knowledge work has to provide for an environment in which sociality and connections can emerge and develop The work of Bouman et ilds on the  analysis of Huizing et al d th eir th eoretical  understanding of sociality is situated on the intersection of theories of social structure and situated experience and of theories of identity and social practice. As shown in figure 2, Bouman et al. explicitly value the duality and interaction of these theories. On the diagonal axis they therefore introduce realms in which design spaces are identified that consider the coexistence and interaction of the adjacent theories    Figure 2 The realm of sociality  The combination of all these perspectives on sociality is referred to as the realm of sociality. The dualities of theories create the following realms [3, pp 10-11   The realm of enabling practice: social software should fit a social practice that already exists or that could exist. LinkedIn.com for example enables the real world process of social networking and supports managing your network relations   The realm of adaptation: social software should fit the daily practice of users, very much as an ingredient of that practice. Digg.com for example resembles the concept of digging which is slang for appreciating something   The realm of building identity: social software should support users to build a \(digital\ocial identity, such that they have a presence in the social community. Del.icio.us for example shows an image of a user s mental framework by grouping the tags one uses in a tag cloud   The realm of actualizing self: social software should assist users in their self-actualization and self-reflection and it should challenge their creativity. Last FM for example provides the users with referrals to music one could be interested. It uses the music a user listens to find these referrals  These realms are design spaces and can therefore be used to assess the ability of software to trigger sociality. We argued that sociality is one of the core elements in knowledge and knowledge work. Social software that aims to support knowledge work therefore has to acknowledge these design criteria  4. Social Tagging  Social tagging is an element of Web2.0 or social software applications. Tagging has become a standard element of many blogs, wiki s and websites. Tags are created by both owners and users to categorize or describe these media. Increasingly, tags and tag clouds are used to browse these media [31 Tags are free formed and user-generated textual keywords, that describe a resource or certain aspects of that resource from the perspective of the individu Although exact applications differ, in general tags are added to resources once they are created or added to a repository. For example, when uploading photo s on Flickr, besides a title and a description, users can add tags to describe the photo. Other services, such as del.icio.us, diigio.com and watvindenwijover.nl provide more sophisticated tag input fields, such as auto-completion on the basis of previously used tags and showing other users tags for a resource Although the tagging process itself is rather simple and straightforward, it enables an extensive list of functions. The main reason for users to apply tags is that it helps them organize their resources for their own purpos How e v e r, tags can s e rv e s e v e ral oth e r  tasks and functions  4.1. Tagging functionalities  Tag clouds are groupings of the tags that are used to describe a set of resources \(figure 3\ag clouds help users to get a gist of what the set of resources is about, to see what other users currently find interesting, and to search and browse for resources  ov er, tag clo u ds c a n al s o dis p la y t h e ta gs used by a single user and therewith show his or her interests and occupancies Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 Figure 3 Tag cloud Tagging also assists users in determining and communicating about meaning [12  T h r o ugh a d d i n g  tags, users describe their perception of the meaning of the resource. In this description process, users are not bound by expert-defined taxonomies, but are free in their choice for tags. This introduces the \(collective subjective indexing of users. This influence of the subjective perspective of users means that tagging essentially is sense making  Golder and Huberman define sensemaking as the process in which information is categorized \(enacted\d labeled through which meaning emerges [12, p. 3  This definition combines the individual choice of users with the emergence of collective meaning. On the one hand the choice for tags is shaped by the individuals own experiences, daily practices, needs and concerns Because of this subjectivity in tagging, other users do not always directly comprehend the choice for specific tags On the other hand, [40 a r gue s t h a t  se n s e  ma ki ng i s  also influenced by social factors such as belonging and identity. The meaning that emerges through sense making therefore becomes a shared or collective meaning. This is also in line with the theory of social proof. On the basis of this theory es th at the  choice for tags is not only determined by an individuals subjective understanding of the world, but also by the labels and categories others use The individual subjectivity in social tagging also supports users in serendipitous discovery of interesting resources [38  T h is is o f te n r e f e rred to as th e lo n g tail  effect. Most of the tags a user chooses are obvious choices, which are also used by many other users However, some tags describe the meaning of a resource from a different perspective that only a few other users would also choose. Through the exposure of these tags, other users might discover relations and resources they would never discover otherwise  4.2. Drawbacks and benefits  The \(minimal\ effort of users to tag resources can create an easily browseable information structure However, the users select the tags on the basis of their own mental model. The differences in the mental models of users can cause the shared vocabulary of tags to have little consistency  Sev e ral  scholars have listed the causes of this inconsistency of emergent vocabularies and argued that these are serious drawbacks for social tagging. The five basic issues with an emergent vocabulary   Multilingualism: similar tags are not grouped when these tags are in a different language   Polysemy: some tags can be relevant for very distinct resources, which limits their coherence   Synonymy: similar resources tagged with synonymous resources are not grouped   Basic level variation: users choose tags at different levels of specificity, which makes tag clouds messy   Lack of hierarchy: there is no direct parent-child relation between tags, making it hardly possible to browse or suggest sema ntically related tags  Much of the ambiguity caused by the basic issues with regard to tagging could be resolved in a social tagging system by showing informational and social contex o n t ex t of an i t e m can be obs erv e d by  looking at all the tags that are used for this item, or at the other items that are tagged with the same tag. A personal tag cloud can provide the context of a user s choice for specific tags. Moreover, through the community influence in social tagging systems, a shared meaning for tags emerges, which overcomes most of the drawbacks of tagging Users tag other peoples documents and therewith they extend the descriptive vocabulary beyond that of the author [18, p 7 The only drawback that remains is the lack of semantic relations between the tags, which limits the potential of browsing through and finding related items, beyond those that are tagged with the same tag Concluding, social tagging creates an information structure which can help users to explore and discover knowledge objects. In the following section we extend this analysis by formulating social mechanisms that social tagging can trigger. We formulate these mechanisms on the basis of our theoretical analysis of knowledge and sociality  5. Social Mechanisms  Realist evaluation [22, 5 d e sc rib e s th e reg u l arit y o f  social processes by formulating social mechanisms In the social reality social mechanisms determine the propositions on the basis of which people execute choice and have capacity to take action [22, p. 68  this section we aim to formulate the mechanisms that might be triggered by social tagging and therewith change the regularity of knowledge work. Realist Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


evaluation aims to formulate a number of social mechanisms based on theory, but at the same time remains open to the discovery of new mechanisms in practical evaluation research. The list of mechanisms we formulate in this section is therefore not claimed to be exhaustive, nor are all mechanisms mutually exclusive The combination of the view of connectivism on the value of connections and the design framework for sociality guides us in defining the mechanisms that can be activated by social tagging. The mechanisms here are propositions on how social tagging can support knowledge workers to efficiently apply organizational knowledge.  We formulated these propositions based on the theoretical understanding discussed above, and on experiences and analysis with social tagging systems in practice The connectivist view on knowledge firstly emphasizes the value of contextual connections between knowledge objects and the serendipitous discovery of these connections. We therefore formulate the following two mechanisms   The seeing context mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to see the context of distributed knowledge objects and- sources   The serendipitous discovery mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to serendipitously discover new information and people Secondly connectivism regards the effort of knowledge sharing as an individual and a social benefit. We therefore formulate two mechanisms that describe these benefits   The using insights mechanisms Social tagging supports knowledge workers to use the insights of other users more easily   The easy sharing mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to easily share their insights about information and context  The sociality framework of Bouman defines spaces software designers should consider for their software to support sociality. We therefore used this framework to formulate and structure mechanisms that social tagging has to trigger to support sociality Such mechanisms would acknowledge human motivations, like eagerness for exploration, curiosity inquisitiveness, civilization, valuation of belonging achieving self-realization, enjoying one-self [3, p.1  In the process of formulating these mechanisms we consulted the creators of this framework and collaborated with them to define the mechanisms Enabling Practice   The expectation mechanism Knowledge workers will use social tagging merely because they feel obliged by the social structure of the organization, which nullifies the potential impact on social processes   The influence mechanism The social tagging user community will influence the knowledge workers choice for tags, which makes these tags understandable for all users and therewith improves the communication about meaning Mimicking Reality   The fit mechanism Social tagging is used because it fits the social processes in the daily work of knowledge workers, which strengthens the impact of social tagging on these social processes   The freedom mechanism Social tagging systems give knowledge workers a free hand in their choice for tags, which makes these tags less comprehensible for other users and therewith complicate the communication about meaning Building Identity   The show identity mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to show their identity which improves the social interaction among them   The association mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers in feeling associated with their colleagues that also use social tagging which improves social interaction among them Actualizing Self   The draw attention mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to draw more attention to themselves or their expertise, which increases the potential for social interaction   The reflection mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to reflect on their identity, which helps them to elicit their identity and in turn impacts the mechanisms show identity  and draw attention   These mechanisms are considered in the Discussion section to assess whether social tagging through its design and functionalities could trigger these mechanisms, and link back to the connectivist perspective and the sociality perspective  6. Discussion  Given these mechanisms we will discuss in this section the potential of social tagging to support knowledge work. First, we analyze social tagging from the perspective of connectivism to determine the fit of this software with our perspective on knowledge and knowledge work. Secondly, we analyze the potential of social tagging to support the emergence of sociality around knowledge objects  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


6.1 Connectivist perspective  Connectivism holds that the knowledge required for knowledge work is embedded in a network of knowledge sources. This view on knowledge and knowledge work focuses on connection making and network management. Knowledge objects are argued to be connected when they have a shared property. By tagging, users add a property to these knowledge objects. When a user browses through tag clouds, the tagging system automatically connects knowledge objects with a shared tag. It is, of course, the user that has to connect the knowledge objects mentally and give meaning to the conne ctions in order to act However, the tagging system assists the user in making the connections more quickly by dynamically grouping knowledge with shared tags. The epistemological foundation of social tagging is therewith equal to that of connectivism Moreover, social tagging is also aligned to the connectivist view on knowledge. It regards the nature and origin of knowledge as paradoxes and dualities Connectivism posits that the nature of knowledge is to some extent explicit and to some extent tacit and holds that the origin of knowledge is both individual and social. Social tagging is mainly concerned with explicit knowledge, but adds the tacit dimension by means of context and connections to people. Social tagging allows users to expose their knowledge objects and connect these to other knowledge objects and other people, blending the individual effort with the social Besides this theoretical alignment with connectivism, we evaluate the practical alignment by reviewing the mechanisms we defined in section 5    The seeing context mechanism In social tagging systems, tag clouds group digital resources on the basis of a shared tag. This grouping therewith provides the context of a resource, since related information and people are shown in their relation This context can be extended by users, when they add notes to the combination of tag and resource Lastly, context can be provided by the tagging system by showing users next to a tag cloud that are expert on the topic of a tag cloud   The serendipitous discovery mechanism One of the main strengths of tagging is that tag clouds are well suited for browsing interlinked and related tags and finding unexpected valuable resources and people. This support for serendipity is enabled by the freedom of users to tag all resources in a shared repository, even if they did not create the resource themselves. It is strengthened by the freedom to choose tags freely to categorize the resources in this shared repository   The using insights mechanisms Social tagging systems structure the insights and knowledge objects of all users such that they can be easily retrieved and used. The grouping and sub-grouping in tag clouds allow users to quickly discover and find the resources they need for work   The easy sharing mechanism Sharing your resources, insights and perception of context is supported by social tagging. No difficult procedures, authorization and such are required. A user simply clicks a context-menu item, adds a description and some tags and the resource is directly available for all other users  In conclusion, from the perspective of connectivism, social tagging neatly fits both the theoretical and practical dimensions of knowledge and knowledge work. Based on this theoretical analysis, we argue that social tagging is a suitable element in the IS support for knowledge work. This hypotheses however, still has to be tested in real-world implementations to assess whether the perception of users actually supports these theoretical findings  6.2 Sociality perspective  When tagging is deployed in web applications it is often referred to as social tagging. The label social is merely chosen because social tagging is part of the socalled social software, but in this context the term stands for nothing more than distributed, asynchronous and collective knowledge. However, others m  that social tagging systems actually trigger users to associate with other users and foster their effort to form groups. More understanding is required to support this sociality claim The basic process of tagging does by no means fit the definition and explanation of sociality used in this research. However, as we stated before, the basic process of adding tags to digital resources enables extended functionality which might be able to trigger sociality. Tagging data can for example be used to group users on the basis of the tags they use. Users can subsequently exploit these groupings by connecting to the different people in the groups. We review the mechanisms we formulated in section 5 to assess what elements of social tagging potentially triggers sociality    The expectation mechanism When social tagging systems are only used because knowledge workers have to, the potential effect on the emergence of sociality can be drastically reduced This mechanism can be nullified by the support mechanism Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


  The influence mechanism Social tagging systems show the tags other users when a user adds a resource. Therewith they influence the user s choice of tags. When this mechanism is triggered users are influenced to establish a shared vocabulary, which supports their communication about meaning   The fit mechanism Social tagging systems allow users to structure their own digital resources in their own way. This mechanism may therewith reinforce other mechanisms, since it creates an extra incentive to use the system    The freedom mechanism In social tagging systems, users are free to choose tags as they like This freedom may disrupt communication about meaning, because the vocabulary is not shared This mechanism disrupts communication and therewith hampers association mechanisms    The show identity mechanism Most social tagging systems allow users to create a personal profile page that is publicly visible. Social tagging systems extend the user profile on the basis of the user s activities. Profiles allow users to express and build their identity. Profiles might therefore make users feel associated or even acquainted with one another, even without direct interaction    The association mechanism This mechanism is the core of sociality. It can be triggered by showing similarity between users, \(automatically\ create groups, and by allowing users to follow other users tagging behavior. On the basis of the tagging browsing and commenting behavior of users, a similarity index can be constructed. The similarity index can be used to show a user other users that are related. This similarity might improve the feeling of association and induce users to connect to and communicate with other users. Groups can be provided a platform to interact on the topic by which they are grouped. Grouping people and enabling them to interact in a dedicated space might improve the sense of belonging between the users and foster social interaction. In some social tagging systems users can subscribe to the tags that another user applies. This following and being followed might create a sense of belonging and association among the users    The draw attention mechanism In social tagging systems, users have several ways to draw attention. First of all, their tagging behavior determines their expertise profile and this can draw the attention of other users. Secondly, users can actively react to other users tags, resources and notes. Lastly, most social tagging systems calculate the level of activity of users and rank the top five of active users which gives these users exposure and draws attention to their profiles    The reflection mechanism Social tagging systems can display individual tag clouds that show the occupation of a user. Moreover, it can track the tagging behavior over time and therewith allow users to reflect on their own and on other users  development. This might also be triggered by profiles, when a user is now and then asked to update his/her profile. This mechanism can trigger self-realization and actualization   In conclusion, several elements of social tagging can trigger the mechanism we formulated. Therewith social tagging theoretically has the potential to trigger the emergence of sociality among its users. As with the hypothesis of the support for connection management this hypothesis of emerging sociality still has to be verified through case study research  7. Conclusions and further research  In this paper, we described our research that explores the potential of social tagging to support efficient knowledge application in the context of knowledge work. Our goal was to identify how social tagging could trigger mechanisms that support knowledge workers to efficiently and collaboratively apply organizational knowledge. As is clear from the analysis in the preceding section, social tagging might trigger mechanisms of connection making and sociality. In our theoretical view on knowledge, both connection making and sociality are key elements of knowledge work. Therewith, we argue that social tagging is a suitable element of the IS support for knowledge work and can support knowledge workers to more efficiently and more collaboratively apply the organizational knowledge The limitation of this research is that it only concerns a theoretical assessment. We did not yet research practical implementations to realistically evaluate the formulated mechanisms, both in a quantitative and a qualitative fashion. Another limitation is that only a single perspective connectivism is explored in relation to social tagging Other theoretical foundations could lead to different insights on the mechanisms involved in social tagging Further research is required to study the practical implementations of social tagging to gain understanding about the mechanisms for connection making and the triggering of sociality. Such evaluation will not only focus on the final outcomes of social tagging activities, but especially on further understanding and confirmation of the mechanisms Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


discussed. Such research will be conducted both in a qualitative and in a complementary qualitative manner to confirm and understand the hypotheses with respect to the mechanisms of sociality and connection making Finally further research is required to understand the role of social tagging as a mediator to go from knowledge sharing and access to knowledge activation  References  1  Ardichvilli, A., Page, V., and Wentling, T. \(2003 Motivation and barriers to participation in virtual knowledgesharing communities of practice. Journal of Knowledge Management. Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 64 - 77 2  Bertrams, J. \(1999\ The knowledge-sharing organization In Dutch: de kennisdelende organisatie\hiedam Scriptum 3 Bo um a n W H oog e nbo om T J a ns e n R., Sc h o o n d o rp  M., Bruin, B. de, and Huizing, A. \(2007\he Realm of Sociality: Notes on the Design of Social Software PrimaVera Working Paper 2008-01 4 B r ow n, J  S. a nd D u g u id P. \(19 91 now le dg e a nd organisation: a social-practice perspective. Organisation Science. Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 198-213 5  Carlsson, S. \(2003\ Advancing information systems evaluation \(research\ critical realist approach. Electronic Journal of Information Systems Evaluation. Vol. 6, No. 2, pp 11-20  Ch att i  Klamm a Jark e Na eve 2 0 0 7  T h e W e b 2  0 Driven SECI Model Based Learning Process. ICALT Seventh IEEE International Conference on Advanced Learning Technologies, pp. 780-782 7  Disterer, G. \(2001\idual and Social Barriers to Knowledge Transfer. 34th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. 7 pp 8 D o w n e s S. \(200 7 n intro duc ti on t o c o n n e c tiv e knowledge. In: Hug, T. \(ed.\dia, Knowledge Education - Exploring new Spaces, Relations and Dynamics in Digital Media Ecologies. Proceedings of the International Conference held on June 25-26, 2007. Innsbruck: Innsbruck University Press 9  Fahey, L. and Prusak, L. \(1998\ The eleven deadliest sins of knowledge management. California Management Review Vol. 40, No. 3, pp. 265-276 10 Fa rre ll S. a n d L a u, T  200 6 e Co nta c t s   P e ople Tagging for the Enterprise. Proceedings of the 20th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology pp. 91 100 1 G azzan iga M  S  ed  2 00 4  T h e Co gn it ive Neurosciences III. Cambridge: MIT Press 12 G o lde r S. A  a nd H u be r m a n B  A   2006 U s a g e  Patterns of Collaborative Tagging Systems. Journal of Information Science. Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 198-208 13  Gorissen, P. \(2006\ial software in het onderwijs Retrieved on 21 November 2007 from http://www.gorissen.info/Pierre/files/socialsoftwarev2p0.pdf 1 H u i z i n g A   2 00 7b  Th e val u e o f a r o se r i sin g ab o v e objectivism and subjectivism. Primavera working paper 2007-19. Retrieved on 9 November 2007 from http://primavera.feb.uva.nl/index.php?option=com_content&t ask=view&id=9&Itemid=23 15 H w a n g  S. \(2007 T r ia di c  A pproa c h of H i e r a r c h ic a l  Classes Analysis on Folksonomy Mining. International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, Vol. 7 No.8, pp. 193-198 16  Jakubic, M. \(2007\ploring the knowledge landscape four emerging views of knowledge. Journal of knowledge management. Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 6-19 17  Jansen, R.M. \(2007\ The human touch in knowledge management \(In Dutch: De menselijke maat in kennismanagement\ijdschrift voor Informatie en Management \(TIEM\etrieved on 15 November 2007 from winkwaves.com/files/De_menselijke_maat_in_kennismanage ment_Winkwaves _TIEM.pdf 18 Ma t h e s A  2004 Fo lk s onom ie s c oope ra tiv e classification and communication through shared metadata Retrieved on 20 September 2007 from http://www.adammathes.com/academic/computer-mediatedcommunication/folksonomies.html 19  McAfee, A.P. \(2006\nterprise 2.0: the dawn of emergent collaboration. MIT Sloan Management Review Spring 2006, Vol. 47, No. 3, pp. 21-28 20  Mohamed, M., Stankosy, M. and Murray, A. \(2006 Knowledge management and information technology: can they work in perfect harmony? Journal of Knowledge Management. Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 103-116 21 N ona k a I  a nd T a ke uc hi, H   199 5 T h e K now le dge Creating Company, How Japanese Companies Create the Dynamics of Innovation, Oxford: Oxford University Press 22  P a w s on, R. a n d T ille y  N 199 7 a listic Ev a l ua tio n  London: Sage Publications 23  Pfeffer, J. and Sutton, I. \(2000\he knowing-doing gap how smart companies turn knowledge into action. Boston MA: Harvard Business School Press 24  Pola ny i, M 1 9 66 h e T a c it Dim e nsion. G a rde n City   Doubleday Publishers 25 Pola ny i M 1 97 5 e rs ona l K now le dg e   In: Pola ny i M  and Prosch, H. \(Eds.\ Meaning. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, pp. 22-45 26 Q u re shi a n d Ke e n 2 00 5 c tiv a ting Know le dg e  Through Electronic Collaboration: Vanquishing the Knowledge Paradox. IEEE Transactions on professional communication. Vol. 48, No. 1, pp. 40-54 27 Riv a de ne ira  A  W G r ue n, D., Mul l e r M., a nd Mille n  D \(2007\etting Our Head in the Clouds: Toward Evaluation Studies of Tag clouds CHI 2007 Proceedings, pp 995-998 28  Siemens, G. \(2004\Connectivism: A Learning Theory for the Digital age. \(Retrieved on the 21 August 2007 from http://www.elearnspace.org:Articles:connectivism.htm 29 Sie m e n s   G  2005 o n n e c tiv ism   A  L e a r ning T h e o r y  for the Digital Age. International Journal of Instructional Technology and Distance Learning, Vol. 2, No. 1 30  Sie m e n s   G  200 6 now in g K now le dg e  L u lu.c om  31 Sif r y  D  2007 t e of t h e liv e  w e b re port. Sif r y s Alerts: http://www.sifry.com/alerts/archives/000493.html 32  Snowden, D.J. \(2002\omplex Acts of Knowing Paradox and Descriptive Self Awareness. Journal of Knowledge Management. Special Issue, July 2002 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


33  Snowden, D.J. \(2005\ust in Time KM: conceptual roots and pragmatic interventions. Retrieved November 11 2007 from http://www.cognitive-edge.com/articledetails.php articleid=38. First published 2002 34  Spyns, P., Moor, A. de, Vandenbussche, J., and Meersman, R. \(2006\From Folksologies to On-tologies How the Twain Meet. Proceed ings of OTM 2006, pp. 738 755 35  Tepper, M. \(2003\ The rise of social software netWorker Magazine, Vol 7, No. 3, pp. 18-23 36 T s ouk a s H  a nd V l a d i m irou, E \(20 01 h a t is  organizational knowledge? Journal of Management Studies Vol. 38, No. 7, pp. 973-993 37  Tuten, P.M. \(2003\ Constructivist Perspective on Knowledge Management. IEEE Professional Communication Conference, IPCC 2003, pp. 170-174 38 Va nde r W a l T   2005 Ex pl a i ning a nd Sh ow ing B r o a d  and Narrow Folksonomies. Personal Infocloud blog http://personalinfocloud.com/2005/02/explaining_and_.html 39  Vos s  J   2 0 07 T a g g i ng Folk s onom y C o  Renaissance of Manual Indexing? Proceedings of the International Symposium of Information Science, pp. 234 254 40 W e ic k  K S u tc lif f e K a n d O b s t f e ld, D   2 0 05  Organizing and the Process of Sensemaking. Organizational Science, Vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 409 421 41 G oody e a r P B a nk s  S. H odg s on V Mc C onne ll, D   2004\ Advances in Research on Networked Learning. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers 42 J o ne s  C 2 0 08 N e tw ork e d L e a r ning  a social practice perspective. In: Proceedings of the sixth International Conference on Networked Learning. P. 616 -623 43 W e r t s c h, J  V 1 99 7  Vy g o ts ky a nd the f o r m a tion of the  mind. Cambridge  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


in the area of advanced illumination modeling color and range image processing applied to robotics and medical imaging and received the award for Outstanding Dissertation from the University of South Florida At JPL his area offocus is science data visualization and science planning for telerobotics He supported the 2004 Mars Exploration Rover MER mission operations as a Science Downlink Coordinator facilitating the timely downlink and analysis of science data from the rovers He received the NASA Software of the Year Award for his work on the Science Activity Planner science visualization and activity planning software used for MER operations He also received the Imager of the Year award from Advanced Imaging Magazine for his work on Maestro the publicly available version of the Science Activity Planner for MER Mark has been programming in Java and loving every minute of it since it was first used in web browsers in 1995 He his wife Nina and daughters Gwendolyn and Jacquelyn live in Tujunga CA Thomas Crockett started working at JPL in 2005 after completing his Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science at the University of Arizona where he discovered an interest in graphics He joined the Maestro team in 2006 and began developing advanced image browsing capabilities that would be used by the MER Phoenix and MSL missions to view and smoothly navigate around very large images Recently he has been extending this work to tackle the problem of mapping and spatial browsing of the science data collected by a mission Jason Fox received his Masters of Science degree in Computer Science from Purdue University in the spring of 2003 At that time he began working for the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena California in the Planning Software Systems group Jason first worked on the Mars Exploration Rover MER mission performing verification and validation of the Activity Planning and Sequencing Subsystem's modeling infrastructure After the rovers  successful landing his role shifted to that of Tactical Activity Planner on the Integrated Sequencing Team and was responsible for the daily construction of the integrated rover activity plan After leaving MER Jason joined the Maestro team and began development on the science operations tool Maestro the successor to the Science Activity Planner co-winner of the NASA Software of the Year in 2004 In addition to Maestro he is also the JPL leadfor the Phoenix Science Interface tool that will support scientific operations of the Phoenix lander 2007 At JPL his areas of focus include collaborative distributed operations for Mars rovers and landers and science planning for telerobotics In his spare time Jason is in training for the Coeur d'Alene Ironman competition to be held in June 2008 Joseph Joswig received his Masters of Science degree in Computer Science from the University t o California Los Angeles in the Spring of 2005 He is a Software Engineer in the Planning Software Systems various~Gou flth NAssiAn Jeta ER heix n S and tchnolgy prjec Propul s inc Laboratiory in or wa ouedo eeorked fo mutherpast twoun softwaresysteyears asL aTLT moembe NS-ofnthe Cener K10 ove lso h Ma estrog thea Masupproting wrhafoue ondeveloping o a multi-robot gomnadcn roundste to support White Sands Missile Range Jeffporruisy isath Exportin ovrsorwhc supy ervisorwne of the 2004NASASofwareof te Plannn Awr.H softwarenl leadng te deelopentf operatlions system s for ah20 Mar SieneabratryRoerndaMars et Sofut r Cassni Satunian Orbter Mar Reco naisanc Orbter and.the.pirit an pportunityM....M ars Explratin.Roers-.fo.whih.thy.wre.c-winer.o.th 2004 NASA Software of the...Year...Award.....He..is..currently leading the develoment.of.the.uplinksystem.for.the.200 MarScencLaoraoryRovroandalvaiety Laofrlunry and Martian operations technology projects Jeff is a strong 11 


advocate for the application of agile development to Cora and has a lovely daughter Sara In his spare time methodologies and open source software in mission critical he likes to run marathons and continually bugs his friends applications He received Bachelor's and Masters degrees to join him in Computer Science from MIT and lives with his wife and two children near Pasadena CA Khawaja Shams joined the Planning Software Systems group at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2005 and he has since been focused on development of OSGI-based web services to enable Maestro's rich client applications His prior work experience includes employment at Malin Space Science Systems and the Internet Protocol Team at Nokia Mobile Phones Khawaja earned a Master's degree in Computer Sciencetfom Cornell University and a Bachelors degree in Computer Science from University of California San Diego Khawajaes current research interests include browser-based telemetry monitoring systems for robotics peer-to-peer systems and PESTful web based services memobern of Tathe a Uplaning edrsosbefrpann Sotwae systems itgropatigwtthsceetam an theadn Jth Pnieropliongemtruhtedyt a Laboratiory.o HER recer ived rton uis,h oe fomt bigaprofthe Ca Monaetoeabinthlasnfr woredME ponetiherueo the Sciencelanin sQfta sotae develsopingeoe frte asScec Lactivit PMLane and Seqene InHLTEgRatono Engineer constructing validating..and.veri.ying..and.bundling sequences used to command the MER rovers....He.moved onto being a Tactical Uplink Lead responsible for planning the sequences integratingwith the science team an softare.o Hey iorsalso a developer fortheMar.Scenc Lander MSL and the ATHLETE Robot project    investigating robots to be sent to the Moon Jay is married 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


