The Financial Impact of IT Governance Mechanisms Adoption: an Empirical Analysis with Brazilian Firms   Guilherme Lerch Lunardi Universidade Federal do Rio Grande \(FURG gllunardi@furg.br  João Luiz Becker Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul \(UFRGS jlbecker@ea.ufrgs.br  Antonio Carlos G. Maçada Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul \(UFRGS acgmacada@ea.ufrgs.br    Abstract 
 Recently, it appears on the agenda of many organizations the concept of IT governance in order to justify and mainly optimize IT investments. Some studies have shown that co mpanies which have good IT governance models generate superior returns on their IT investments than their competitors. However, there is a lack of scientific research confirming that effective IT governance results in better financial performance In this paper, we verified if companies which have adopted IT governance mechanisms improve their financial performance, examining changes on performance pre and post adoption controlling for industry mean changes. We found that companies which have adopted IT governance practices improved their performance when compared to the control group, especially regarding about profitability measures. Furthermore, we 
found that effects of IT governance mechanisms adoption on financial performance are stronger in the year following adoption than in the year which IT governance was adopted   1. Introduction  In recent years, IT governance has received increased attention in both academic and professional literature. The main reasons for this interest are related to the changing role of IT in organizations, and consequently the necessity to ensure that IT has been appropriately managed IT governance applies corporate governance concepts to drive and control IT in a strategic way 
concerning about two key-issues: the value IT delivers to an organization, and the control and mitigation of IT-related risks 1 8]. M o s t of its ru le s are res u lt  of common sense, standardization, experience, and best practices which are defined to efficiently and effectively carry out the IT-function Some studies have shown that companies which have good IT governance models generate superior returns on their IT investments than their competitors especially because they make better IT decisions [4142 Co m m ittee s, b u d g e tin g  p r o cesses, ap p r o v als, an d  
so on are a few of the IT governance mechanisms that encourage behavior consistent with the organization s mission, strategy, values, norms, and culture [42  Several IT governance cases of success have been reported lately, especially in business magazines like Computerworld, CIO, and Informationweek. However there is insufficient scientific research confirming the effectiveness of IT governance results in the achievement of better financial performance. Although 
it cannot be concluded that superior governance performance leads to superior financial performance Weill and Ross [43 assert th at th e t w o  m eas u r es  correlate quite well. The authors have analyzed 256 companies worldwide during the period 1999-2003 showing that firms with superior IT governance had more than 25% higher profits than firms with poor governance given the same strategic objectives [42  The necessity of developing deeper studies about IT governance impact is evident, especially because besides the acquisition and maintenance cost of IT 
infrastructure, companies have spent a lot of money in consultancy services, certifications, training, and specific software for IT governance. With the aim of better understand the effects of IT governance on organizational performance, we verified if companies which have adopted IT governance mechanisms improved their financial performance after this adoption The study was done with Brazilian listed companies at Sao Paulo Stock Exchange \(BOVESPA 
the main Brazilian stock exchange comparing the evolution of different performance indicators from companies which have formally adopted IT governance mechanisms against companies from the same economic sector which does not have such mechanisms. This kind of research can help both Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


academics and practitioners to identify different benefits of IT and its management, serving as a guide to drive IT strategies  2. Literature Review  Once IT becomes more important to organizations new challenges about its management emerge naturally. Companies have spent about 50% of all capital investment on IT [5   ho w e ve r  i t ha s b e e n ve r y  hard to see the real impact of these investments on organizational performance. Statistics published by IDC Brazil [16 rev eals th at m o re t h a n US 2 5 b illio n  were spent on IT by Brazilian companies in 2007 surpassing in almost US$ 3 billion the amount spent in 2006. Although many organizations realize IT is becoming not only a significant expense but also one of their main organizational assets, decisions about IT adoption, implementation, and management are still complex, wasting a lot of money in bad IT acquisitions  20  A ccordin g to Maizlis h an d Han d ler [26 72% of IT projects are late, overbudget, lacking in functionality, or never delivered; of the successful  projects \(28%\45% were overbudget and 68% took longer than planned. They still reveal that 50% of managers said they could have realized value with 50 of the cost, and only 52% of the projects realized strategic value. These numbers are particularly alarming, especially because IT projects and initiatives should work as an impulse for growth, modernization and organizational competitiveness Most part of executives knows that is not possible not spend on IT; however they do not want to spend any more than the minimum necessary to deploy and run IT efficiently i n i ng  ho w  much money to invest and how must be the distribution of this investment, in terms of maintenance, services, human resources, or new projects is really important. Today, IT has been considered one of the main risky factors of organizations  d both lack an d e x cess of  these investments can compromise the structure and the operations of the firm The concern about how IT and its investments are managed has done executives recognize that getting IT right this time will not be about technology, but about the way IT is governed We k n o w IT by  itself does not guarantee returns, but the way how it is used and managed by firms. Notwithstanding, the way IT should be organized and structured arises like one of the most enduring problems faced by organizations  h e lpin g to ex plai n  w h y  fir m s can obtain diff ere n t  results using some times the same technology We see the emergence of different mechanisms like balanced scorecards, business cases, software development programs, the initiation of IT-review boards, and other indications that corporate executives want more insight and information about the ITfunction in the organization [39   T h i s si gn s sho w t h e  huge potential IT governance and more specifically its mechanisms has to improve the IT management and its use by executives IT governance is much broader than IT management especially because governance involves all organizational issues regarding IT like definition of politics, IT decision-making rights and responsibilities, investment and projects approval maintenance and monitoring of all existent IT, IT delivery value evaluation, and so on. According to Van Grembergen, De Haes and Guldentops governance can be deployed using a mix of structures processes, and relational mechanisms \(figure 1\hese mechanisms are not necessarily adopted and used by all organizations. Depending on the firm or business characteristics, for example, different configurations can be developed for every organization. Determining the right mechanisms to adopt is a complex endeavor and it should be recognized that what strategically works for one company does not necessarily work for anothe en if t h e y  w o r k in t h e s a m e i n du s t r y   Based on Peterson [31    Figure 1. Structures, Processes and Relational Mechanisms for IT Governance  The adoption of these mechanisms can help organizations to both mitigate risks associated to IT and create IT business value; nevertheless, many companies lack even the most basic rules such do not Structures Processes Relational Mechanisms roles and responsibilities IT strategy committees IT steering committees IT organization structure CIO on Board project steering committees e-business advisory board e-business task force Balanced \(IT\recards Strategic information systems planning COBIT and ITIL Service Level Agreements Information economics Strategic alignment model business/IT alignment models IT governance maturity models active participation by principle stakeholders  collaboration between principle stakeholders partnership rewards and incentives business/IT collocation shared understanding of business/IT objectives active conflict resolution cross-functional business/IT training cross-functional business/IT job rotation Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


do business cases for IT-projects, do not adjust and align periodically the IT budget with business needs and do not use benchmarking or metrics except for finance, which certainly will affect the organizational performan ec u t i v es are un s a tisf i ed abou t t h e  way how decisions and projects related to IT have been executed and justified, stimulating researchers practitioners and even consultants to propose models and frameworks to develop and potentialize IT governance. Still, researchers have been unanimous that a universal best IT governance structure does not exist, once a solution for a given firm is contingent on a variety of factors  6  There are some insights that IT governance mechanisms adoption can modify the means organizations manage and use their technology applied to business in a more efficient way than companies which IT management is not effective, reflecting on the global performance of the organization. In doing so, IT would have a direct or indirect effect on business processes, which together determine the overall performance of the firm These effects, though, can take some time to happen; especially because IT projects implementation is invariably a lengthy process pen d in g on t h e  size and complexity of IT implementation, the true benefits could be observed only after a few months and in some cases even years T h eref ore considering the aspect of the time lag to assess the IT governance benefits can provide more concrete consistent, and significant results, once some benefits will have short-term impacts and others will have longer-term impact  3. Methodology  In order to verify the impact of IT governance mechanisms adoption on financial performance, we followed the event-study methodology In a nutshell, an event study compares the performance of a group of firms that have undergone a particular event \(in our case, the adoption of IT governance mechanisms\with the performance of a comparable group of firms that did not undergo that event. According to McWilliams and Siegel [29 th is method is a powerful tool that can help researchers assess the financial impact of changes in corporate policy Extensively used in Accounting and Finance studies, the event study has been recently applied to Management and Information Systems studies \(measuring the impact of IT investment announcements on stock prices, supply-chain management systems adoption, information systems outsourcing decisions etc 11  According to Mackinlay ev en t s t u d y  follows a general flow of analyses: identification of the event of interest and the event window, definition of the sample selection criteria, selection of abnormal and normal returns mensuration criteria, and calculation of the abnormal returns. Next sections detail the used procedures in this study  3.1 Identification of the event of interest and the event window  The initial task of conducting an event study is to define the event of interest and identify the period over which the firms involved in this event will be examined the event window \(figure 2 customary to define the event window to be larger than the specific period of interest, especially because this permits examination of periods surrounding the event In practice, the period of interest is often expanded to multiply days to capture the effects of the event According to McWilliams and Sieg e ev ent  window should be long enough to capture the significant effects of the event, but short enough to exclude confounding effects like other events that might have an impact on performance during an event window, influencing the study conclusions. In this research, we defined an event window that was centered on the IT governance adoption year \(defined as the period companies have formally implemented their IT governance model, either through an own model or driven by the adoption of reference guides or frameworks such as COBIT and ITIL called date zero t = 0\ation and comparison window were defined as one year before and one year after the IT governance adoption, respectively where: t = 0: event date; L1 = \(T0,T e s tim a tion w i ndow  L2 = \(T1,T  e v e n t w i ndow  L 3  T 2,T 3  c o m p a r is on window Figure 2. Event Study P e r f o r m a nc e   t     t  1     P e r f o r m a n c e  t 1  I T g o v e r n a n c e  A d o p t i o n   t    L1 L2 L3 Estimation window Event window Comparison window 0 T1 T2 T0 T3 t    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


3.2 Definition of the sample selection criteria  After defining the event, it is necessary to determine the selection criteria for including different firms in the sample. As the sample universe, we defined all Brazilian listed companies at São Paulo Stock Exchange \(BOVESPA\ 405 firms To identify companies formally involved on IT governance practices, two distinct strategies were utilized   search and analysis of electronic press releases \(such as announcements, interviews articles, cases, institutional websites, etc determining company s name, IT governance mechanisms adopted, and the exact time period IT governance process began; and   E-mail to Investors Relations department of all listed companies at BOVESPA, asking them if they were implementing IT governance mechanisms, which of them, and the exact implementation period  At the end, 101 companies were identified like formally implementing IT governance. Of these companies, fourteen were excluded of the analysis. Six of them because their IT governance process had started too recently \(after August 2006\ot allowing to evaluate the impact of IT governance mechanisms  adoption on performance; other six companies were excluded because their financial data were not available in the consulted database and, finally, other two companies were excluded because they had experienced another significant event during the analyzed period, which could confound the results. It is interesting comment that data used in the analysis are not only about date zero but regarding to one year before and one year after the IT governance adoption for both companies and the comparable group of firms that did not undergo the event. We finished data collection on March 2007 The performance measures were chosen through a consult to five specialists on Accounting, Economics and Finance. They suggested eight different performance measures which were separated and grouped according their end. The performance measures were classified in three groups   profitability measures: return on equity ROE\rn on assets \(ROA\nd profit margin \(PM   productivity measures: asset turnover \(AT operating margin \(OM\d operating expense to sales \(OS   market measures: sales growth \(SG\, and share repurchase \(SR After selecting firms and performance measures we proceed to data collect. All the data required to calculate the metrics was collected from Economatica Tools for Investment. The statistics employed in event studies tend to be very sensitive to outliers, especially with small sample To redu ce th e inf l u e n ce o f  outliers, all performance measures were winsorized at 3 standard deviations. Winsorization has been frequently used in Economics and Finance studies to control potential outliers  T h is procedu r e trim s  the extreme values \(lower and upper\, replacing them by the two remaining extreme values, instead of throwing them away. Winsorization therefore tends to stabilize the variance of a normal population from an overall distribution contaminated by a small proportion of abnormal values ch  m e tric w a s calc u lated  from both companies which had adopted or were adopting IT governance mechanisms and for each industry control group  3.3 Calculation of the abnormal returns  The last procedure of an event study involves the selection of normal and abnormal mensuration criteria According to Campbell, Lo and Mackinlay  abnormal return is the actual ex post return of the measure over the event window minus the expected return of the company over the event window. The normal return is defined as the return that would be expected if the event did not take place This stage consists in calculating the performance measures in order to verify the presence of abnormal returns. Equation 1 exemplifies the calculation of the performance measures. The change in the industry mean \(the sum of companies from the same industry which did not have formally adopted IT governance mechanisms\er the same period was subtracted from the change in each performance measure to remove industry and economy-wide effects. Industry mean thus serves as a benchmark that increases the meaningfulness of the resultant performance measures  ROAf.post - ROAf.pre 1  Where  ROAf.post = ROA after IT governance a doption ROAf.pre = ROA before IT governance adoption ROAi.post = Industry average ROA after IT governance adoption ROAi.pre = Industry average ROA before IT governance adoption  The result is that observed changes in financial performance can be attributed to the adoption of IT Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


governance mechanisms rather than to industry wide effects. For each performance measure \(ROA, ROE PM, AT, OM, OS, SG, and SR\was done a similar equation We then performed the student s t-test to determine whether the performance changes means were significantly different from zero between the two distinct groups. Changes on performance were tested for the year prior to a firm s adoption of IT governance mechanisms as well as for the year which IT governance was adopted and the year after this adoption. Such artifice helps to identify possible lag effect benefits  4. Results  We identified 101 \(25%\Brazilian companies which have formally adopted IT governance mechanisms. Most of the IT governance adoptions in the sample occurred in 2004-2005 \(68 firms or 67.3 showing that IT governance is a very recent movement among Brazilian publicly traded firms \(table 1\ The expressive number of firms starting the IT governance process in this period might be explained by Brazilian companies efforts to adequate th eir internal controls to Sarbanes Oxley Act, obligatory for those companies which negotiate shares at New York Stock Exchange NYSE the initial deadline for foreign companies was December 2006  Table 1. Distribution of sample firms by year  Year n  2001 1 1.0 2002 7 6.9 2003 9 8.9 2004 26 25.7 2005 42 41.6 2006 12 11.9 2007* 4 4.0 Total 101 100 Data Collection End-date: March 2007  The companies which have formally adopted IT governance mechanisms are distributed in 29 different industries according to BOVESPA classification \(table 2\The highest concentration is in banks \(13 firms and electric utilities \(10\ollowed by mining and steel 8\ixed line communications \(7\d food manufacturing \(6\ terms of sectoral  representativity we can detach leasing \(80%\wireless communications 71%\as utilities \(67%\fixed line communications 58%\ining and steel \(57%\l, gas and biofuel 57%\surance \(50%\d personal care and tobacco 100%\ sectors where IT governance firms represent more than 50% of all publicly traded firms at BOVESPA  Table 2. Distribution of sample firms according to BOVESPA classification   According to Classificação Setorial BOVESPA published in 04/04/2007, 405 firms were listed at BOVESPA; some industries did not have any IT governance firm  After the sample description, we proceeded to the event study. Initially, we analyzed the profitability measures ROA, ROE, and PM \(table 3\esults for ROA indicated that firms which have formally adopted IT governance mechanisms experienced significantly improvements on performance \(p < .05\ both Industry BOVESPA Listed firms IT g overnance adopters  Banking 28 13 46 Electric utilities 47 10 21 Mining and steel 14 8 57 Fixed line communications 12 7 58 Food industry 22 6 27 Chemicals 15 5 33 Wireless communications 7 5 71 Iron and steel products 14 4 29 Oil, gas and biodiesel 7 4 57 Leasing 5 4 80 Construction 19 4 21 Wood and paper 9 4 44 Insurance 6 3 50 Textiles/apparel/footwear 27 3 11 Airlines 5 2 40 Machines and equipments 14 2 14 Information Technology 7 3 43 Retail/diversified retailers 10 2 20 Gas utilities 3 2 67 Packaging 4 1 25 Health 6 1 17 Water utilities 5 1 20 Media 4 1 25 Personal care 1 1 100 Railroads 4 1 25 Retail and distribution 4 1 25 Toll roads and highways 10 1 10 Transportation equipment 11 1 9 Tobacco 1 1 100 Other industries 84 0 0 Total 405* 101 25 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


analyzed years 1 when compared to other firms. It can be seen that the lag effect of IT governance mechanisms adoption is significantly larger than the immediate effect \(the p value is closer to zero on year 1\This fact shows that firms get better when their IT governance mechanisms become more mature. ROA measures the overall effectiveness in generating profits with available as s a ru le, th e h i g h e r is the  ROA, the more profitable is a company. According to Weill and Woodham orm er s as  m easu r ed by ROA are heavy users of IT councils, capital investments processes, service level agreements chargeback practices, and process teams. All of these mechanisms are used to maximize the value derived from the firm s assets by reuse, standardization, clear agreements and financial disciplines  Table 3. Profitability Measures Comparisons  Analyzing ROE, we identified significantly improvements on performance of companies which have adopted IT governance mechanisms only in the year following adoption \(year 1\ this case, we could not find an immediate effect of IT governance mechanisms adoption. However, in the year following adoption, IT governance firms ROE increased 0.73 and the other companies had an expressive reduction \(3.93\ the same period. This measure is considered one of the most important profitability measures of the firm, because it assesses the return to the firm's stockholders by relating profits to shareholder equity  res, in a si ng le ratio, th e a m o u nt of success the firm is having in managing its assets operations, and capital structure. According to Weill   1  To compare the difference of means between IT governance and non-IT governance firms, we compared the evolution of the performance measures in both analyzed periods \(c.f. ROA 0.45  against 0.88 and 0.85 against 1.16   and Ross perf orm e r s as  m easu r ed by  R O E  tend to be centralized in their approach to IT governance, using committees \(for cost controlling and IT standardization\, and formal postimplementation assessments of IT-related projects Regarding to PM, we found both an immediate effect and a lag effect \(p = .024; p = .006\ IT governance mechanisms adoption on performance simultaneously. As the same as the other measure ROA and ROE\e evolution of PM was larger on year 1. This measure is the "bottom line" of operations It indicates the rate of profit from sales and other revenues. Because it moves with costs, it also reveals the type of control management has over the cost structure of the firm T h e adoption of dif f e ren t IT  governance mechanisms like definition of IT decisions IT metrics, and IT standardization provide certain professionalism to IT decisions and a new economic view of IT focused especially on the business value. Besides, the focus on risks and prioritization of IT projects helps to define costs and benefits of IT avoiding wasting unnecessary money   The results for firm profitability measures indicated significant differences between IT governance mechanisms adopters performance and the control group in both years We also noted that firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms have improved significantly their performance over time, especially because their IT governance practices become more mature. Some research has showed similar results regarding IT impacts on performan Next, we analyzed the productivity measures  OM, AT, and OS \(table 4\ OM, we cannot find any evidence for both years that firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms improved their relative performance. OM measures the percentage of each sales dollar after all expenses associated with producing, selling, and operating the company has been deducted. The operating margin is used by many analysts to gauge the profitability of a company s operating activities. It removes from the equation the interest expenses and taxes over which current management may have no control, thus giving a clearer indicator of management performan  IT governance mechanisms like COBIT and ITIL can help firms to monitor and control IT and its services, improving the IT infrastructure efficiency and the quality of IT services provided internally externally and outsourced. These measures reflect on Longitudinal Analysis Date zero \( t = 0 Measure n Non-IT governance adopters IT governance adopters p  t 1 t Evol t 1 t Evol ROA 78 2.73 2.28 -0.45 4.35 5.23 0.88 038 ROE 72 11.97 10.01 -1.96 18.54 15.63 -2.91 .586 PM 73 6.17 5.08 -1.09 7.39 8.58 1.19 035 Year 1 \(t + 1 Measure n Non-IT governance adopters IT governance adopters p  t 1 t 1  Evol t 1 t 1 Evol ROA 66 2.18 1.33 -0.85 4.11 5.27 1.16 01 ROE 63 10.15 6.22 -3.93 17.61 18.34 0.73 043 PM 65 5.18 3.96 -1.22 7.48 9.48 2.0 006 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


IT reduction costs and, consequently, on operating expenses of the company. Even though, it was not possible to verify statistically these benefits. We could speculate especially because the p-value decreased from 0.627 to 0.161 that a longer period analysis reveals a statistically significant gain at the 5% level not verified in the analyzed period \(only 2 years  Table 4. Productivity Measures Comparisons  Regarding to AT, we identified that firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms showed significantly improvements on performance only in the year following adoption \(year 1\ the date zero the evolution of this measure was almost the same for both groups \(p = 0.987\The asset turnover, also called asset utilization ratio measures the ability of a firm s assets to generate revenue. It is used to measure the efficiency of a firm using its assets to generate sales indicating if the operations of the firm have been efficient financially  Therefore, when a company adopts mechanisms to increase the IT infrastructure efficiency \(by its monitoring or controlling reduction of incidents greater stability, and readiness of the systems\ger will be the impact on its financial performance Analyzing OS, we could not find statistically significant difference between IT governance adopters and the control group. Operating expenses include dayto-day expenses such as sales and administration; thus when a company adopts mechanisms to reduce IT costs, reuse or standardize the IT infrastructure, the operating expenses will be affected, improving this measure. As the same as OM, it was not possible to verify statistically these benefits on the analyzed period Generally speaking, the results regarding to productivity measures did not indicate statistically difference between firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms and the other group of companies, except for AT which was significant in the year following adoption \(year 1\pparently, firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms did not improve their relative performance regarding to operating profits and the relation between expenses and revenues. However, analyzing the p-value for both measures \(OM and OS\we note as IT governance mechanisms get more mature, more significant are the differences between IT governance adopters and non-IT governance adopters. This can suggest that productivity benefits will be seen afterwards. Although this study has tried to consider simultaneously both an immediate effect and lagged effects, the short period of analysis could have done the real effects of IT governance adoption miss Regarding to market measures \(SG and SR\we did not identify statistical difference between IT governance adopters and the control group at 5 level \(table 5\en though sales growth \(SG\ has diminished for IT governance adopters in a small proportion than non-IT governance adopters, we could not assert statistically \(p = 0.213 and p = 0.516\at IT governance mechanisms improve sales potential. The fact of both groups reduced their sales in the analyzed period can be justified by economic stagnation or the entry of new competitors in their respective sectors attesting that firms tend to move togeth  Results for share repurchase \(SR\ did also not find statistical difference about IT governance adopters and non-IT governance adopters \(p = 0.337 and p = 0.443 However, we noted that in the year 1 firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms had their stock prices valued \(in the average\while the stock prices of non-IT governance adopters remained decreased. As the same as the other analyzed measures, when IT governance mechanisms get more mature, their effects seem more significant on performance, reflecting on stock prices \(which is the market perception about the future performance of a firm\Although we could verify that in both analyzed years date zero and year 1\ IT governance benefits are not perceived by the market Results about market measures did not show statistically significant difference between companies which have adopted IT governance mechanisms and the control group. We noted that IT governance mechanisms have been used in the interest of firms  efficiencies, as the use of internal controls to reduce costs, for example. When we analyzed efficacy Longitudinal Analysis Date zero \( t = 0 Measure n Non-IT governance adopters IT governance adopters p  t 1 T Evol t 1 t Evol OM 69 14.76 14.07 -0.69 18.07 17.85 -0.22 .627 AT 68 0.61 0.63 0.02 0.67 0.68 0.01 .987 OS 76 19.78 19.47 -0.31 19.31 17.79 -1.52 .261 Year 1 \(t + 1 Measure n Non-IT governance adopters IT governance adopters p  t 1 t 1  Evol t 1 t 1 Evol OM 57 14.19 12.3 -1.86 17.04 17.06 0.02 .161 AT 63 0.6 0.57 -0.03 0.6 0.65 0.05 026 OS 64 20.49 21.07 0.58 19.76 18.59 -1.17 .212 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


measures as the sales growth we did not find significant gains, at least on analyzed period date zero  and year 1\hese results are not totally strange, once other researchers have found a significant positive relationship between IT investment and several firm performance measures, not finding positive impact on sales growth 22  T h e n o n s i gn i f ica n t s t ock price  variation in the same analyzed period demonstrate that the market has not realized IT governance adoption as a resource to improve organizational performance Table 5. Market Measures Comparisons  Therefore, we could verify that firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms have gotten significant efficiency gains using better their IT resources, or controlling better their IT investments However, the adoption of these mechanisms did not bring market gains to those companies. Maybe a more effective communication of IT governance benefits could make market perceive the firms efforts to improve their IT management and, consequently, their organizational performance  5. Final Remarks  This research investigated the relationship between IT governance mechanisms adoption and firm financial performance. We followed the event-study methodology comparing the performance of a group of firms which have adopted IT governance mechanisms with the performance of a comparable group of firms that did not undergo this adoption Our analysis indicated that IT governance adopters improved sensitively their organizational performance when compared to the control group, mainly regarding about profitability measures \(such as ROA, ROE and profit margin\hat is interesting comment that the effect of IT governance mechanisms on ROE varied over time, being statistically significant solely one year after the IT governance adoption We also found that IT governance mechanisms have been used essentially in the interest of firms  efficiencies, such as cost reduction or better IT infrastructure utilization, in opposite to the expansion benefits such as sales growth and stock prices. These findings corroborate recent studies  2  21  that also found a significant positive relationship or effects between IT investments and these profitability measures In fact, some studies reveal that Brazilian executives still perceive the main benefits of IT related to operating processes than strategic ones when compared to executives from other countries Another aspect of this study was that we measured a lagged effect, the lack of which some researchers identified as one of the main limitations of studies analyzing IT investment impact [12    8    Hu and Plan a v e s t ressed th e n e ed  to observe benefits from IT investments or use over longer time, especially because some IT investments will have short-time effects and others will have longer-term impacts h is res earch tried to consider simultaneously both immediate effect and lagged effects regarding to IT governance mechanisms adoption on financial performance We noted that the impact of these mechanisms potentialize over time, that is, as IT governance mechanisms get more mature, more expressive are their benefits. Therefore, we can say that the impact of those mechanisms is not an isolated event, but a continuous phenomenon being the lag effects larger than the immediate ones This research provides some implications for IS managers and academics. The article proposes the utilization of the event-study method to evaluate the marginal effect of an event on financial performance This method, commonly used in Accounting and Finance studies, was showed possible to be applied in IS studies as well. Its utilization permitted to evaluate a lagged IT effect, identified as one of the main limitations on studies assessing the IT impacts on organizational performan   This study has some limitations. First, we considered only a two-year period of analysis, which could be a short period of time to identify the real benefits of IT governance mechanisms adoption However, as seen on this study, Brazilian companies have gotten involved with IT governance mechanisms very recently. Another limitation applies to the sample used in the study. Because the empirical tests required at least two years of data in order to compare pre and Longitudinal Analysis Date zero \( t = 0 Measure n Non-IT governance adopters IT governance adopters p  t 1 T Evol t 1 t Evol SG 70 15.86 12.36 -3.50 15.35 14.88 -0.47 .213 SR 58 46.61 42.47 -4.14 40.40 27.27 -13.1 .337 Year 1 \(t + 1 Measure n Non-IT governance adopters IT governance adopters p  t 1 t 1  Evol t 1 t 1 Evol SG 65 16.59 10.12 -6.47 17.65 12.98 -4.67 .516 SR 51 54.0 46.45 -7.55 47.58 48.90 1.32 .443 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


post-IT governance mechanisms adoption performance, any firm which had no available data was eliminated from the analysis. This limitation is essentially a factual limitation, not compromising the statistical tests reliability Another limitation of this research is that IT governance adoption was considered a binary variable thereby not distinguishing between different degrees to which IT governance mechanisms were adopted, not allowing to capture this distinction We hope that these contributions prove useful for both scholars and executives striving to understand the benefits of implementing IT governance mechanisms  6. References  1 B a ll, R  a nd B r ow n, P An empirical evaluation of accounting numbers Journal of Accounting Research, Vol 6, No. 2, 1968  Bh arad w a j  A    A resource-based perspective on information technology capability and firm performance: an empirical investigation MISQuarterly, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2000  Bh arad w a j, A Bh arad w a j, S  a n d K o n s y n ski, B Information Technology effects on firm performance as measures by Tobin s q Management Science, Vol. 45, No 6, 1999 4 B l a c k B J a ng  H  a nd K i m   W  Does corporate governance predict firms market values? Evidence from Korea Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization, Vol 22, No. 2, 2006 5 Bloe m  J., V a n Doorn, M a nd Mitta l P   Making IT governance work in a Sarbanes-Oxley world New Jersey John Wiley & Sons, 2006 6 B r o w n, A  a nd G r a n t G  Framing the frameworks: a review of it governance research Communications of the Association for Information Systems, Vol. 15, 2005, pp. 696712 7 Ca m pbe ll, J L o A  a nd Ma c k inla y   A  The econometrics of financial markets New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1997  Ded r ick J  G u rb axan i V and Kraemer K   Information Technology and economic performance: a critical review of the empirical evidence ACM Computing Survey, Vol. 35 No. 1, 2003 9 D e hni ng B  a nd R i c h a r ds on V Returns on investments in Information Technology: a research synthesis Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 16, No. 1, 2002 1 Dehn i n g B   R i ch ar d s o n  V  and St r a t o po ul o s  T  Reviewing event studies in MIS: an application of the firm value framework Proceedings of the 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Hawaii, 2003 11 D e hni ng B   R i c h a r ds on V  a n d Zm ud R    The financial performance effects of IT-based supply chain management systems in manufacturing firms Journal of Operations Management, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2007 12 D e v a ra j, S. a nd K ohli  R   Information Technology payoff in the health-care industry: a longitudinal study  Journal of Management Information Systems, Vol. 16, No. 4 2000 1 Devaraj  S  an d Ko h l i  R   Performance impacts of Information Technology: is actual usage the missing link  Management Science, Vol. 49, No. 3, 2003 14 D u r n e v A   a nd K i m  H  To steal or to not steal: firm attributes, legal environment, and valuation Journal of Finance, Vol. 60, No. 3, 2005 15 G itm a n L  Principles of Managerial Finance  Addison-Wesley, 2005, 11 th Ed 16 IDC IDC Brasil: investimentos em tecnologia no Brasil devem responder em 2007 por 2,2% do PIB nacional  2007, available on-line in http://www.idclatin.com/news.asp ctr=bra&year=2007&id_release=872 accessed in July 15th 2007 17 Im K.; Do w  K.; G r o v er, V Research report: a reexamination of it investment and the market value of the firm an event study methodology Information Systems Research, Vol. 12, No. 1, 2001 1 Har d y  G    Using IT governance and COBIT to deliver value with it and respond to legal, regulatory and compliance challenges Information Security Technical Report, 2006 pp. 55-61 19 H u Q  a nd P l a n t, R  An empirical study of the casual relationship between IT investment and firm performance  Information Resources Management Journal, Vol. 14, No. 3 2001 2 Jeff er y  M  an d  L e l i v el d  I  Best practices in IT portfolio management MIT Sloan Management Review Vol. 45, No. 3, 2004 21 K udy ba S. a n d V ita lia no D  Information Technology and corporate profitability: a focus on operating efficiency  Information Resources Management Journal, Vol. 16, No. 1 2003 22 L e e  S. a nd K i m  S A lag effect of IT investment on firm performance Information Resources Management Journal, Vol. 19, No. 1, 2006 23 L i M. a nd Y e L  Information Technology and firm performance: linking with environment, strategic and managerial contexts Information and Management, Vol. 35 No. 1, 1999 24 Ma  a da A  a nd B e c k e r J  Efeitos da Tecnologia de Informação nas variáveis estratégicas dos bancos: uma análise envolvendo Brasil e Estados Unidos Revista de Administração de Empresas, Vol. 41, No. 4, 2001 25 Ma c k inla y   A  Event studies in Economics and Finance Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. 35, No. 1 1997 26 Ma iz lish  B. a nd Ha n d le r, R  IT portfolio management step by step John Wiley & Sons, 2005 2 M a rch a nd  D   Reaping the business value of IT  Business & Economic Review, July September 2005 2 M caf ee A    Do you have too much IT MIT Sloan Management Review, Vol. 45, No. 3, 2004 29  Mc W illia m s A  a nd Sie g e l D Event studies in Management research: theoretical and empirical issues  Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 40, No. 3, 1997 3  P e f f ers K an d Do s S a n t o s  B   Performance effects of innovative IT applications over time IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol. 43, No. 4, 1996 31 P e te rson  R Integration strategies and tactics for Information Technology governance in Van Grembergen Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


W. \(Ed.\Strategies for Information Technology governance Hershey: Idea Group Publishing, 2004 32 P a te l N  An emerging strategy for e-business IT governance in W. Van Grembergen \(Ed.\ Strategies for Information Technology governance, Hershey: Idea Group Publishing, 2004 3 bb ers  P    P e t e rson  R a n d  P a rker  M    Designing Information Technology governance processes: diagnosing contemporary practices and competing theories  Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2002 34 Sc hw a r z  A   a nd H i rs c hhe im R  An extended platform logic perspective of IT governance: managing perceptions and activities of IT Journal of Strategic Information Systems, Vol. 12, 2003, pp. 129 166 35 Si lv e i ra A Ba rros L   a nd Fa m  R Atributos corporativos, qualidade da governança corporativa e valor das companhias abertas no Brasil Revista Brasileira de Finanças, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2006 3  S m i t h  M   M i t r a S  an d Narasi m h an  S    Information Systems outsourcing: a study of pre-event firm characteristics Journal of Management Information Systems, Vol. 15, No. 2, 1998 37 T y le r, C Analysis of normal flicker sensitivity and its variability in the visuogram test Investigative Ophthalmology  & Visual Science, Vol. 32, No. 9, 1991 38  Va n G r em be r g e n, W D e H a e s S. a n d G u lde n t ops  E  Structures, processes and relational mechanisms for IT governance in Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed.\ Strategies for Information Technology governance, Hershey: Idea Group Publishing, 2004 39 V e rh o e f   C   Quantifying the effects of IT-governance rules Science of Computer Programming, Vol. 67, No. 2-3 2007 40  Vi da l, F. a nd C a m a rg os M Estudo de eventos: teoria e operacionalização Caderno de pesquisas em Administração, Vol. 10, N 3, July-September 2003 41 W e ill P   Don t just lead govern: how top-performing firms govern IT MIS Quarterly Executive, Vol. 3, No. 1 2004 42 W e ill P. a n d Ross, J IT governance: how top performers manage it decisions rights for superior results  Watertown: Harvard Business School Press, 2004 43 W e ill P. a nd R o ss, J  A matrix approach to designing IT governance Sloan Management Review, Vol. 46, No. 2 2005 44 W e ill P. a n d W o o dha m  R Don t just lead, govern implementing effective IT governance Center for Information Systems Research, Working paper n. 326, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


  11  M a rc S. A l len Space Operations: Mission Management Technologies, and Current Applications Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics, 2007  H.Li ebe, \223M odel i ng at tenuat i on and phase of rad i o  waves in air at frequenc ies below 1000GHz,\224 Radio Science, Vol 16, No 6, pp 1183-1198, 1981 2 J. Ham k i n s and M  K. Si m on, Eds Autonomous Software-Defined Radio Receivers for Deep Space Applications Hoboken NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc 2006 B IOGRAPHY  Sahana Raghunandan is currently pursuing her PhD degree in Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Wireless@VT. Her research interests include software defined radios resource allocation for wireless networks, and hardware and software design of radar systems. She completed her M.Sc studies in electrical engineering at The University of Kansas, Lawrence  Shereef Sayed is pursuing his M.Sc. in Computer Engineering under Dr. Jeff Reed at Wireless@VT. His research interests include models of computation coarse grained configurable computing machines, and embedded platforms. He is also one of the original developers of the OSSIE project and continues to assist in its development Tamal Bose received the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Southern Illinois University in 1988. After faculty positions at the Citadel and the University of Colorado, he joined Utah State University in 2000, where served as the Department Head and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering from 2003-2007 Currently, he is Professor of the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engin eering at Virginia Tech. He is also the Associate Director of Wireless @ VT The research interests of Dr. Bose include adaptive filtering algorithms, nonlinear effects in digital filters, and multidimensional system theory. He is author of the text Digital Signal and Image Processing, John Wiley, 2004. He is also the author or co-author of over 100 technical papers Dr. Bose served as the Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing from 1992 to 1996. He is currently on the editorial board of the IEICE Transactions on Fundamentals of Electronics, Communications and Computer Sciences, Japan. He also served on the organizing committees of several international conferences Dr. Bose received the 2002 Researcher of the Year award from the College of Engineering at Utah State University and the 2002 Teacher of the Year award from the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He received the Researcher of the Year and Service Person of the Year awards at the University of Colorado at Denver He also received two Exemplar y Researcher awards from the Colorado Advanced Software Institute. He is an IEEE EAC program evaluator and a member of the DSP Technical Committee for the IEEE Circuits and Systems society Jeffrey H. Reed is the Willis G. Worcester Professor in the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering From June 2000 to June 2002, Dr. Reed served as Director of the Mobile and Portable Radio Research Group MPRG He currently serves as Director of the newly formed umbrella wireless organization Wireless @ Virginia Tech Dr. Reed\222s area of expertise is in software radios, cognitive radio, wireless networks and communications signal processing. His book, Software Radio: A Modern Approach to Radio Design was published by Prentice Hall in May 2002. His latest book, An Introduction to Ultra Wideband Communication Systems was published by Prentice Hall in April 2005 Dr. Reed received the College of Engineering Award for Excellence in Research in 2001 In 2005, Dr. Reed became Fellow to the IEEE for contribu tions to software radio and communications signal processing and for leadership in engineering education   


                                Box 3.1. Basics of Survival Analysis  A comprehensive discussion of this topic in the context of PHM can be found in Ma and Krings \(2008a Survival analysis, also known as failure time analysis, has become a de facto standard for analyzing time-to-event data in biomedical research in the last two decades Survival analysis studies positive random variables for describing times to events in concern, also known as survival time, failure time, or simply time-to-event  Survivor Function and Hazard Function  Survivor function and hazard function are two of the most fundamental definitions in survival analysis. The survivor function S\(t time \(T is lt;&lt;?= ttTPtS 0   Note that S\(t function R\(t instantaneous rate of failure at T=t, conditional upon survival to time t.  It is defined as      lim  0 tS tf t tTttTtPt t  lt The above definitions are for univariate survival analysis; survival analysis has been extended to multivariate systems, or the multivariate survival analysis Hougaard 2000, Ma and Krings 2008c 3.7 and 3.8 for Multivariate Survival Analysis  Fundamental Model of Survival Analysis  


 Cox \(1972 most fundamental model in survival analysis. It is a semi-parametric model that correlates conditional survivor \(hazard vector \(z  Hazard Function ?\(t, z covariate vector z zetzt  0 where ?0 \(t function for continuous failure time T  Conditional Survival Functions \(on z   0   ztSztS where  t duutS 0 00 exp is the baseline survivor function  There are numerous extensions to Cox's model \(e.g Therneau and Grambsch 2000, Martinussen &amp; Scheike 2006 8                             UUUR, survival analysis, competing risks analysis, and multivariate survival analysis can be utilized to assess the effects of UUUR events. This forms the foundation of tactical level modeling in the three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008  3.2. Competing Risks Analysis  Competing risks analysis \(Box 3.2; Ma &amp; Krings 2008b for detailed discussion in the context of PHM and reliability subject of survival analysis. It has a history dating back to 1760 when Daniel Bernoulli studied the risks around the smallpox inoculation. However, modern competing risks analysis draw extensively on survival analysis, which was only initiated in late 1950s but the active research was not conducted until the1970s The application of competing risks analysis in reliability is quite earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 


earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 1967 controversies around the issues of identifiability, which shadows its value when multiple latent risks are dependent.  Three excellent monographs exist for competing risks analysis \(David &amp Moeschberger 1978, Crowder 2001, Pintilie 2006 perspective of survivability analysis, competing risks analysis can be used for analyzing the effects of unpredictable risks by treating the unpredictable events as censored or the effects of latent risks We use the term latent risks to refer to potential failure risks \(but only one of the risks ultimately causes the system failure survivability analysis; this usage of latent risks is totally consistent with the concept of latent risks in competing risks analysis, where these risks are modeled precisely  3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis                                                      Cont' Box 3.1  Another model that is of nearly comparable status with Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model 


Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model AFT e.g., Kalbfleisch &amp; Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  Mean Residual Life \(MRL The mean residual life \(MRL lifetime for a sensor node of "age" t and is defined as   tTtTEtMRL &gt  It can be proved that the following equation holds Klein and Moeschberger 2003             tS dxxS tS dxxftT tMRL tt     where S\(t  Proportional Mean Residual Life Models exp  0 ztmztm T that m\(t|z the covariates, and m0\(t lifetime \(Oakes and Dasu 1990; Chen &amp; Cheng 2005 This model should be particularly useful for PHM Box 3.2. Basics of the Competing Risks Analysis \(CRA  In competing risks analysis \(CRA experiences multiple risks simultaneously, but it may fail from one of the risks only and fail only once. The risk that leads to the failure becomes the cause of the failure Therefore, risk is often used before the failure occurs and the cause is preserved for the afterwards \(Crowder 2001 failure is the defining characteristic of competing risks analysis. It also implies that the system is multivariate from the perspective of risks, but univariate from the perspective of the single failure time and single cause  There are two sets of formulations for CRA in the literature. The first is described with a pair of vectors of random variables the latent \(theoretical David and Moeschberger 1978 used below well as sub-survival functions \(Crowder 2001  There is one and only one cause in the set of k causes for each failure observed.  The elements of C are called risks before failures and causes afterwards. The risks compete for the cause. In reliability analysis, C might be faulty components in a series system and T is the breakdown time of the system; or C might be the failure modes, such as asymmetric vs. symmetric  The sub-distribution function is defined as   tTjCtjF equivalently, the sub-survivor function is defined as   tTjCtjS &gt Obviously jptjFtjS   where   jSjFjCp j represents the marginal distribution of C 


represents the marginal distribution of C  The sub-density function f\(j, t represented by  dttjdStjf The marginal survivor function and marginal density of T can be calculated with kj tjStS 1       1? ==?= kj tjfdttdStf The related conditional probabilities are Pr \(time t |cause j j, t Pr \(cause j | time t j, t t Pr\(time t | cause j caused by j, for example, the survival time distribution of cancer patients in a biomedical experiment. Similarly Pr\(cause j | time t specific age group 9 The latest advances in survival analysis have been centered on multivariate systems. Multivariate survival analysis has two major categories of models: one is multi-state modeling; the other is shared frailty modeling. Multi-state models, although formulated differently in both fields, have been extensively studied in reliability analysis in the context of Markov chain analysis. In contrast, shared frailty modeling seems little known in reliability analysis and PHM. To the best of my knowledge, there is only one reference in the form of monograph, i.e., by Hougaard 2000 analysis in the context of reliability and PHM can be found in Ma &amp; Krings \(2008c 2008d frailty and multi-state modeling, respectively. Given the complexity involved with multivariate survival analysis, any description of actual model is quite involved and hard to fit in a comment box. Box 3.3 only contains a few concepts  The previous univariate survival analysis and, to a lesser extent, the competing risks analysis have several significant limitations. The first limitation is the implicit assumption of single failure or single time-to-event transition. In Figure 2 multiple states and multiple transitions are the norm, rather than the exception. This is a multivariate survival system and multi-state modeling is obviously more appropriate than the univariate or competing risks analysis. Competing risks analysis can only address the multiple risks, but not multiple failures, which further can be dependent with each other. In more general terms, multiple failures with common-events modes represent the typical failure mechanisms in a multivariate system, but both univariate survival analysis and competing risks analysis can help little in modeling the dependences This constitutes the second limitation.  A third limitation is that not all covariates are observable, and some of the unobservable or unobserved may have critical influences on the 'survival' \(or transitions between states nodes. These unobservable covariate factors may create common-risks dependences, and the shared frailty model can capture these kinds of unobservable common-risks While the capability to capture the effects of unobserved or unobservable common-risks is critical for reliability modeling, its criticality to survivability modeling cannot be overemphasized because the quantitative study of this issue does not exist in the existing survivability research Therefore, shared frailty modeling is a critical tool for studying the influences of UUUR events in the tactical level modeling of survivability  Of course, the above limitations discussed equally apply to the traditional reliability theory because traditional reliability theory is based on the binary-state logic \(either failed or operational especially of computer networks, is often characterized by 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


