   FXplorer: Exploration of Computed Software Behavior A New Approach to Understanding and Verification  Luanne Burns Timothy Daly Software Engineering Institute Carnegie Mellon University lburns@cert.org daly@cert.org    Abstract The craft of software understanding and verification can benefit from technologies that enable evolution toward a true engineering discipline. In current practice, software developers lack practical means to determine the full functional behavior of programs under development, and even the most thorough testing can 
provide only partial knowledge of behaviors. Thus, an effective technology for revealing software behaviors could have a positive impact on software understanding. This paper describes th e emerging technology of function extraction \(FX\ fo r computing the functional behavior of programs and how the knowledge of program behavior can be used in user-directed program exploration for understanding and verification. We explore how the use of FX technologies can transform methods for functional verification of software.  Several examples are presented illustrating the FXplorer interface and its use in exploring the behavior of pro 
grams, a capability that, without function extraction technology, has not been possible until now 1.  Transforming Software Understanding FXplorer is an example of a value-added software understanding application that capitalizes on the availability of function extraction technology to provide capabilities current tools cannot match The objective of function extraction technology is to compute the behavior of software to the maximum extent possible with mathematical precision. Computed behavior defines what a program does in all pos 
sible circumstances of use and can be described as the as-built specification of the code. Routine availability of computed software behavior permits the development of many value-added applications with capabilities beyond what is possible today.  For example FXplorer provides a unique and different view into program behavior and how that behavior accumulates as a program executes. This view provides new approaches and strategies in software understanding and 
verification.  In section 2, we discuss FX in the context of cyber security.  Section 3 discusses the concepts of Function Extraction and the function-theoretic view of software as the mathematical foundation for the computation of behavior.  Section 4 describes the FX system that implements such a system.  Section 5 illustrates the of concepts underlying FXplorer as a valueadded software application made possible through the use of function extraction technology and section 6 
describes the FXplorer interface.  Section 7 gives a brief discussion of FXplorer s underlying algorithm for computing all pathways through a program using its computed behavior.  Finally, section 8 discusses FXplorer impact and future direction  2.  Background and Cyber Security  Gallagher and Lyle s e th e idea of slicin g a program along a single variable in order to isolate the effect of the variable on the rest of the program. Inter 
actions might arise due to side-effects that are not directly related to the variable, such as changing the value of one of the processor flags or side-effecting aliased memory locations. Since FX computes the ground  truth" of the processor, it should be possible to track the result of these  side-effects. We have not considered tracing a single user visible variable but this might be a very valuable addition to FX in a software maintenance role Walton k   W h a t can be com p u t ed 
with respect to security attributes?" The 9 attributes identified were \(1\sted mechanism, \(2\trusted data transmission, \(3\thentication, \(4\authorization 5\on-repudiation, \(6\acy, \(7\confidentiality 8\integrity, and \(9\ailability. These attributes would be specified in a behavior catalog giving, for example, the required authentication behavior of a login program. The program would be restricted to use Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


  only trusted data sources and be required to acquire the needed privilege level only during certain operations Using FX with a behavior catalog which specifies the program behavior, the FXplorer program can be used to calculate the current program behavior. This can then  be compared with the required security behavior which has been specified in terms of data and transformations on data 3.  Function Extraction Concepts CERT STAR*Lab of the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University is conducting research and development in the emerging technology of function extraction [1,3,4  h e obj ectiv e is to compute the behavior of software to the maximum extent possible with mathematical precision. FX presents an opportunity to reduce dependencies on slow and costly testing processes to assess software functionality by moving to fast and inexpensive computation of functionality at machine speeds The goal of behavior computation is to compose and record the semantic information in programs in order to augment human capabilities for analysis, design, and verification. In the current paper we limit the discussion of function extraction to the domain of sequential logic, postponing concurrent and recursive topics. Computing the behavior of programs is a difficult problem, and our intent is to say the first words on the subject, not the last words The well-known function-theoretic view of software provides mathematical foundations for computation of behavi th is pers pectiv e, prog ram s are treated as rules for mathematical functions or relations that is, mappings from inputs \(domains\tputs ranges\ardless of subject matter addressed or implementation languages employed The key to the function-theoretic approach is the recognition that, while programs may contain far too many execution paths for humans to understand or computers to analyze, every program \(and thus every system of programs\ be described as a composition of a finite number of control structures, each of which implements a mathematical function or relation in the transformation of its inputs into outputs. In particular the sequential logic of programs can be expressed as a finite number of single-entry, single-exit control structures: sequence \(composition\, alternation \(ifthenelse and iteration \(whiledo\ith variants and extensions permitted but not necessary. The behavior of every control structure in a program can be extracted and composed with others in a stepwise process based on an algebra of functions that traverses the control structure hierarchy. Termination of the function extraction and composition processes are assured by the finite number of control structures present in a program The first step in behavior extraction is to transform any spaghetti logic in the input program into structured form, to create a hierarchy of nested and sequenced control structures. The behavior of leaf node control structures is then computed with net effects propagated to the next level while local details of processing and data are left behind. These computations reveal new leaf nodes and the process repeats until all behavior has been computed Behavior computation for sequence and alternation structures involves composition and case analysis Because no comprehensive theory for loop behavior computation can exist, mathematical foundations and engineering implementations short of a general theory but sufficient for practical use has been developed for use in FX The general form of the expressions produced by function extraction is a set of conditional concurrent assignments \(CCA\ organized into behavior databases that define program behavior in all circumstances of use. The CCAs are disjoint and thus partition behavior on the input domain of a program. The behavior databases define behavior in non-procedural form and represent the as-built specification of a program. Each CCA is composed of a predicate on the input domain which, if true, results in simultaneous assignment of all right-hand side domain values in the concurrent assignments to their left-hand side range variables. The left side of Figure 1 shows a program that swaps two variables x and y the right side shows the behavior of the program as a conditional concurrent assignments Note that there are many algorithm alternatives that one might choose for doing the swap but all would result in the same extraction Behavior databases, thus, are the central repository for the actual behaviors contained in a software system.  The behavior databases can be queried, for example, for particular behavior cases of interest, or to determine if any cases satisfy, or violate, specified conditions or constraints. Behavior databases have many uses ranging from basic human understanding of code, to program correctness verification, to analysis of security and other attributes, to component composition, and so on The first application of FX technology is to programs written in, or compiled into, Intel assembly language to support analysts in malicious code detection and understanding of malware behaviors. Sample outputs from the evolving FX system are employed later in the paper to illustrate the role of behavior computaProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  tion as a means to understanding and verifying programs   Figure 1: Swap program and extraction  4.  Function Extraction Examples In the example shown in Figure 2, the assembler source code for a short program is shown.  It contains statements such as push and pop, add, subtract, and jump.  The code contains spaghetti logic with various jumps throughout.  A code analyst would need to manually trace through the statements to determine the program behavior.  Using the FX system, however, the analyst is able to determine the behavior of this sequence with the push of a button  1 begin sequence 2 top 3  sequence function 4  push eax 5  push ebx 6  add esp, 0x00000004 7  jmp 0x0000001E 8  pop eax 9  jmp $-0x14 10  sub eax, ebx 11  add ebx, eax 12  push ecx 13  sub ecx, ecx 14  sub ecx, eax 15  add ecx, ebx 16  sub eax, eax 17  add eax, ecx 18  clc 19  pop ecx 20  jmp $-0x12 21  ret 22  label = exit Figure 2: Assembler source  Figure 3 shows the FX Code/Behavior display The left side of the split pane shows the original assembly language after transformation by the system into structured form.  It is revealed to be a simple sequence structure.  The jumps are shown in parentheses for traceability but they have been untangled and removed from the sequence.  The right side of the split pane shows the automatically generated behavior database for the code.  The equations are conditional concurrent assignments; the left hand sides represent final values at program exit while the right hand sides are initial values at program entry; all equations are assigned concurrently, not sequentially Note here that EAX register has been assigned the initial value of the EBX register and EBX has been assigned the initial value of the EAX register.  This code thus performs a swap of the two registers.  This program involves only a simple sequence control structure.  The FX system computes the functional behavior of every control structure in a program, thereby populating its behavior database with comprehensive information about its behavior from low level structures up to the entire program   5.  Behavior Exploration with FX Technology  The Code/Behavior display in FX allows the user to see the resulting behavior database for the whole program, as well as the behavior for each individual control structure or statement.  These behaviors are defined in terms of conditional concurrent assignments. FXplorer allows the user to see behavior across statements, that is, the composition, or net effect, of accumulating behavior from one statement or structure to the next. This greatly assists a programmer in verifying the execution of his programs. In essence FXplorer allows user-controlled behavior exploration The knowledge of program behavior gives new exploratory power to programmers in the debugging phase of their development The three FXplorer capabilities are called   BehaviorCase or Path Quest  BehaviorPath or Connect the Dots  BehaviorHere or Come Here  By default, FX displays the whole program behavior database.  Using this display, the user might decide that one or more of the behaviors looks suspicious or erroneous. He might want to know which code statements and their accumulating behaviors contribute to the case in question BehaviorCase FXplorer s PathQuest function starts with a user-selected case in the behavior database of a program.  It determines and displays the compositions of all the accumulating behavior along all the code paths that produce that case.  All other  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


    Figure 3: FX Code/Behavior View code and behavior is eliminated. Thus, the programmer can find out what part of the original program is responsible for a given result BehaviorPath or Connect the Dots starts with a user-selected code path through the program.  It determines and displays all the compositions of the accumulating behavior along that path. Thus, the programmer can examine a particular path through the program to see the accumulating and final behavior it causes BehaviorHere, or FXplorer s Come Here function, starts with a user-selected statement in the program. It determines and displays the compositions of all the accumulating behaviors along all possible code paths to that statement  Thus, the programmer can find a particular point in a program and see all the paths and accumulating behaviors leading to that point These three functions provide a unique way of understanding a program. It allows direct answers to common programmer questions like: "Where does this result come from?" \(BehaviorCase\What happens if this path is executed?" \(BehaviorPath\d "How does this program get here?" \(BehaviorHere\he ability to answer these questions in full without doing a line-byline analysis greatly improves the programmer s ability to understand program behavior, to verify that the results are correct, and to validate the results against a specification   6. Exploring the User Interface  Glance ahead to Figure 5 for a moment to see the basic structure of the FXplorer interface; FXplorer provides a tabular view of program behavior where the rows are program statements and the columns are registers, flags, and memory values.  FX also displays external items such as file system values but those will not be discussed in this context.  Think of the tabular view as a checkbook register.  Each statement is an entry in the register; the dark shaded lines labeled after composition are the balance if you will, resulting after each statement.  The first two rows of this table represent the behavior database, or all behaviors for the program as a whole Now let s look at the accumulation of behavior For statement 1, note that 1 is added to the value of EAX.  The darker line below statement 1 shows the behavior afterwards Statement 2 then adds 20 to EBX and the following line shows the accumulated behavior after both statements 1 and 2 Finally, Statement 3 adds 6 to EAX and the following composition line shows the accumulated behavior after statements 1, 2, and 3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  The tabular view allows the user to resize and move columns as desired.  Resizing is done by dragging the title area of the column header.  Moving a column is done by simply dragging the column to a new location in the table.  This allows the user to place columns of interest in proximity to each other. If the content of a cell in the table is too long to be displayed without increasing the column width to an unreasonable size, the cell can be clicked on and the contents will be displayed in the top area of the table Using this example, let s suppose a user starts by viewing the whole program behavior database computed by FX as shown in Figure 4 and finds Case 1 to be of particular interest; that is, when EAX has been incremented by 7 and EBX by 25 Using FXplorer when the user right clicks anywhere on the row with that case, a drop down menu is displayed showing all pathways through the code that will result in this behavior.  The sequence of statement numbers is displayed on the menu.  In this case, there is only one pathway that results in this behavior. This is illustrated in Figure 4 By clicking on the path dropdown menu FXplorer Path Quest displays the statement sequence and     the composition of accumulated behavior that produces the behavior defined in the selected case.  The accumulated behavior sequence is illustrated in Figure 5 Sometimes however a user might like to start exploration from a point other than the behavior database.   Using Come Here in FXplorer allows a user to explore the program from the statement level For example, in Figure 6, clicking on statement 6 shows the accumulated behavior to that point in the program, namely that EAX is incremented by 10 and EBX by 20.  In this case, only one path reaches statement 6.  Contrast this with the result of a Come Here  on statement 8, in Figure 7, where EAX is increment by 7 and EBX by 25   While Come Here allows a user to explore behavior to a given statement and Path Quest allows a user to explore starting from the behavior database Connect the Dots gives a user control of exploration along a path of his choosing.  To activate path seletion the user selects the Path Selection checkbox at the top of the tabular view.  A new column appears with radio buttons for every Then, Else, and Endif, as shown in Figure 8.  By default the Endif options are selected. From there the user can select the desired  Figure 4: PathQuest Drop-down menu showing statement sequence  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


     Figure 5: Highlighted Accumulated Behavior Sequence    Figure 6: Come-here on statement 6  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


     Figure 7: Come-here on statement 8   pathway through the program.  Now, selecting statement in column 1 will show the result along the specified Connect the Dots path up to the selected statement. Clicking the Compose along selected path button at the top will compose the accumulating behavior using the connected path Figure 9 shows a more substantial program example using FXplorer.  Imagine a program in an embedded avionics system that sets register EAX to the value of an angle for use in a tangent computation by the  invoking program. It is important that the angle not be 90 degrees, since the tangent of 90 is infinite. This example is intentionally programmed in an obscure manner to simulate the difficulty of understanding a much larger program Note that the computed behavior shows three cases that set EAX to 90, 96, and 88 degrees, respectively The 90-degree case is of immediate interest because of the problem it creates for the tangent computation Nowhere in the initial code is it apparent that is EAX explicitly set to 90, or to any other value for that matter \(Figure 10 contains source listing If the user wanted to explore the pathway that results in this behavior, he can right click on the row in the behavior database showing the behavior of interest that is, the 90 degree case, and see the resulting sequence of statement numbers in the path. Selecting the sequence will then display the composition of accumulating behavior along that path. Figure 11 shows the resulting accumulated behavior. Note that we can now see exactly the point at which EAX becomes 90, that is, at statement 47 In looking at these examples, it is important to note that no current software engineering tool can provide these capabilities because no current tool has computed behavior available to it FXplorer provides powerful understanding and debugging information for software development, acquisition, testing, and verification.  But Fxplorer is only the first of an extensive suite of value-added applications that can be built around calculated software behavior The next section briefly discusses the algorithm for calculating all the pathways through a given program    Figure 8: Connect-the-Dots User-controlled exploration Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


         Figure 9: FXplorer on Aviation Program Extraction    Figure 10: Aviation Structured Source Code   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


    Figure 11: Accumulated Behavior    7. FXplorer All Paths Algorithm We can consider the various blocks of code as black boxes for the purpose of finding all the possible paths through the code. The only case of interest for this algorithm involves handling IF statements. Thus, for a simple sequence of code  GIVEN: \(a b c a b c  When there is an IF statement we need to return the code sequence for the true case and the code sequence for the false case  GIVEN: \(a b c \(if d e a b c d a b c e  The IF statement can occur anywhere, including the first statement of the code sequence  GIVEN: \(\(if a b a c b c  It can even be the only statement in the code  GIVEN: \(\(if a b a b  Or, in general, the IF statements can be nested within other if statements  if \(if i j\ \(if m n a b d i q a b d j q a b d m q a b d n q a b e i q a b e j q a b e m q a b e n q  So we need a recursive algorithm that walks the code blocks looking for IF statements. When one is found we construct two sequences, one sequence containing the TRUE case and one sequence containing the FALSE case. Within each case we need to recursively search for further IF statements   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  8. Impact and Direction FX gives software developers a practical means to determine the full functional behavior of programs FXplorer adds three radically new abilities built on the FX knowledge of program behavior  BehaviorCase or Path Quest answers the question What parts of the program are responsible for this part of the final program behavior  BehaviorPath or Connect the Dots answers the question What is the result of following this path  BehaviorHere or Come Here answers the question What parts of the program are involved in reaching this point  Since FX covers all of the behavior of a program we need not worry that some special case has been overlooked.  FXplorer is an example of a new generation of software engineering automation that can capitalize on computed behavior to amplify human capabilities for program understanding and verification against specifications.  As an emerging discipline, FX technology holds promise for engineering correct programs, and FXplorer provides a powerful illustration of how computed behavior can be leveraged to create new engineering capabilities  9. References  1 C ollins, R., W a lton, G He v n e r A a nd L i ng e r R The CERT Function Extraction Experiment: Quantifying FX Impact on Software Comprehension and Verification Technical Note CMU/SEI-2005-TN-047, Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, 2005 2 G a lla g h e r J.R. L y le  Using Program Slicing in Software Maintenance IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. 17, No. 8, pp. 751-761, Aug. 1991 3 H e v ne r, A L i ng e r R., Collins R P l e s z k oc h M P r ow ell, S., and Walton, G The Impact of Function Extraction Technology on Next-Generation Software Engineering Technical Report CMU/SEI-2005-TR-015, Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University July 2005 4 L ing e r, R., Mills H., a nd  W itt, B Structured Programming: Theory and Practice Addison-Wesley, Inc., 1979 5 L ing e r, R  a nd P l e s z k oc h M Improving Network System Security with Function Extraction Technology for Automated Calculation of Program Behavior  Proceedings of the 37th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Science \(HICSS35 Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA, January 2004 6 L ing e r R P l e s z k oc h, M., Burns L H e v n e r A a nd Walton, G Next-Generation Software Engineering Function Extraction for Computation of Software Behavior  Proceedings of the 40 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA January 2007 7 L y l e  J  R., G a lla g h e r  K  B A program decomposition scheme with applications to software modification and testing Proceedings of the 22 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS22 Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA January 1989  8 M ili, A Da ly T P l e s z k oc h, M., a nd Prowell,  S Next-Generation Software Engineering: A Semantic Recognizer Infrastructure for Computing Loop Behavior  Proceedings of Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 Hawaii IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA, 2007  9 P le s z k o c h  M H a us le r, P H e v n e r A a nd L i ng e r R Function-Theoretic Principles of Program Understanding  Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Science \(HICSS23 Hawaii  IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA January 1990  W a lton, G L ong s t a f f  T  a nd L i ng e r R Technology Foundations for Computational Evaluation of Security Attributes Technical Report CMU/SEI-2006-TR-021 Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, D ecembe r 2006     Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11 modeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, active center of gravity control, etc Lingyu Yang has got his PhD in Navigation, Guidance and Control from Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China, 2007. He is currently an assistant instructor in the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering in BUAA. His main field of research is control allocation and flight control of aerospace vehicles. His research interests include integrated control system, m odeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, fli ght simulation, etc Gongzhang Shen was born in 1945 in China. Since 1990s, he has been a professor at the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering, Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China His research interests include integrated control technology integrated vehicle management system nonlinear modeling, control and simulation of various aerospace vehicles, etc 


DAily SMLS TIROPI TMMS solar 90 243 60 A IIt I  I 1111X   L _~17A Hi FMAMJ ASOND 0.3 1.0 1.5 20 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 0 80 9.0 Nunber of observatio  24h Figure 10 Number of observations per each 24 hour period for LEOMAC-P top row and LEOMAC-S bottom row Everywhere in a given color is measured that number of times with lOxIO km horizontal resolution for TROPI TIMS and 50x50 km for SMLS The left three columns show an example for Aug 17 The rightmost column shows the annual variation for the TROPI and TIMS solar measurements where the vertical line is 17 August The number of measurements per 24 hour period for SMLS and TIMS/thermal has only a minor variation throughout the year 1000 km i 100 km 10 km GUobal I Global j Figure 11 Overarching scientific issues that need to be addressed by future atmospheric composition missions and LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC horizontal vertical and temporal coverage and resolution For the various measurement objectives L indicates that observations are needed in the lower troposphere U that they are needed in the upper troposphere and S that they are needed in the stratosphere The right end of each horizontal arrow is the required horizontal resolution and the left end is the required coverage The upper end of each vertical arrow is the desired temporal resolution and the lower end is the required resolution 13 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


