A New Equation Based Single Rate Multicast Congestion Control 
 Manisha Manjul School of ICT, Gautam Buddha University Greater Noida, U.P., India   Rajesh Mishra School of ICT, Gautam Buddha University Greater Noida, U.P., India   
Abstract 
204A computer network is basically the combination of computers and different type of devices that are interfaced by a range of resources i.e. communications channels that provide the communications between users and allow them ability of sharing the resources. Multicasting is used to send the information from one receiver to group of receivers. But it is faced big issue 
because of additional data demand of receivers which may cause of congestion. There are different approach to control congestion i.e. single rate and multi rate approach. We are considering the single rate approach. TCP friendly multicast congestion control technique \(TFMCC\s basically a first single rate multicast congestion control technique. It uses the steady state equation to adjust the throughput. But this mechanism has the problem of feedback implosion. It creates the congestion at the source side This problem was solved by pragmatic general multicast congestion control \(PGMCC\proach. In this paper, we provide 
Multicast, Congestion, Congestion Control, TCP TFMCC, PGMCC 
an effective mechanism for multicast congestion control which work based on utilization of situation and improve the solution with respect to TFMCC, PGMCC 
 
I 
 I NTRODUCTION  The fast increase of the Internet has spark the demand of several new applications of group communication, such as spread Databases, Distributed Computing, Real Time Group Communication, combined Videoconferencing, Media-ondemand Broadcast, and size box file Transfer Protocol \(FTP 
 
Keywords\204 
for software delivery. All these applications need a resourceful sharing of data simultaneously to multiple receivers With the rapid development of Internet technology multicast technology is widely used. Users can simply talk to others in an effective method and users can use video conferencing, You Tube, email, instant messaging \(Meebo Yahoo, and MSN\, chat rooms[1 v i de o ca lls  on lin e ch a t  By  distribution hardware resources which is far from other resources. Every host in the network environment can access and use hardware resources which live in that network location i.e. taking the printout using the printer which is on the common network The demand of computer networking is increasing day by 
day. In  recent  text  was used to send the information but now the demand of video data  i.e. video conferencing,  YouTube IPTV etc is increasing. The robustness of the current internet is due, in large part to the end-to-end congestion control mechanism of transmission control protocol \(TCP  It is generally known that TCP dominates current internet process as it represents 70% to 90% of traffic. Due to this request of bandwidth is increasing to handle the huge amount of traffic. User want quality of service \(minimum delay maximum throughput, minimum delay and minimum loss the problem with load balancing occur. To beat there are 
several techniques but it is a big issue now due to video on demand increasing. The situation is handled by multicast communication with very efficient way. Because many interested group of receivers received the data at a time from source. The communication is known as group communication    B ut i t suffe r s fro m d i ffe re nt pr ob l e m  Fi r s t  p r ob l e m i s  attack on source and receivers due to well known IP addresses of source as well as group. Second one is Congestion due to more demand of traffic and heterogeneous environment of receivers [2    Many researchers [5  9 13 19 2 4 29 ha ve pro vi de different techniques to control the congestion situation in 
multicast communication. These techniques are furthers divided into single rate and multi rate. In single rate  12 26 29 3 2  3 3  o nl y o ne st r e a m i s se nd i ng b y so urc e and receiver accepts this stream according to capacity of resources. In multi-rate approach [5  7   5 6 sen de r s e n d s  different streams to receivers and receivers received join the group according to streams. In this paper, we focus on congestion issue of multicast communication. The objective of this paper is to develop an efficient single rate multicast congestion control technique  II  RELATED  WORK Computer network is the essential piece of the networking 
When the data is transferred several scenarios i.e. congestion in the network, quality of service etc could take place Multicasting is used to send the information from one to group of receivers. It is a big issue because of more data demand of receivers is known as congestion. The plan of multicast congestion control has to tackle several more problems such as Feedback Implosion, rate adaptation for vast heterogeneous 2014 IEEE 
927 978-93-80544-12-0/14/$31.00 c 
002 


2014 International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development INDIACom receivers, Round Trip Time \(RTT\ and packet loss estimation for multiple receivers. There are two different techniques to control the congestion i.e. single rate multicast congestion control and multi-rate multicast congestion control techniques TCP Friendly Multicast Congestion control Technique TFMCC\ is basically a single rate multicast congestion control technique. It uses the steady state equation to adjust the throughput. But this mechanism has the problem of feedback implosion. It creates the congestion at the source side. This problem was solved by pragmatic general multicast congestion control \(PGMCC\ approach. The problem in PGMCC is a round trip time and packet loss calculation problem due to feedback implosion We have studied some paper related of multicast congestion control mechanism.  Literature reviews of those papers are following Ashraf Matrawy and Ioannis Lambadaris [1 av e  presented a survey of multicast congestion control schemes for video applications. We started with end-to-end schemes presenting both single-rate schemes and layered schemes Advantages and disadvantages of each scheme were presented and general problems with the end-to- end methodology were discussed. Authors also presented router schemes to support congestion control for IP Multicast. This grouped them into two main categories and presented a number of these schemes Je-young Yu et.al  p r opo sed  a n e ffec t i v e co nge st i o n  control mechanism known as TCP Multicast Rate Congestion Control \(TMRCC\ tree-based many-to-many reliable multicast protocols. The proposed scheme is based on the congestion windowing mechanism and a rate controller is used in addition. The feedback for error recovery is exploited for congestion control as well to minimize the overhead at the receivers. The ACK timers and the NACK timers are set dynamically reflecting the network condition changes. The rate regulation algorithm in the proposed scheme is designed to help the flows sharing the same link to achieve the fair share quickly W. Kammoun, H. Youssef Pre se nt ed a n i m p r o v ed version of the TFMCC protocol. TFMCC is an equation based single rate MCC protocol.  In TFMCC, each receiver estimates the loss ratio p and RTT, then applies equation 1 to determine the acceptable rate, and sends it as feedback information to the source XTCP = S/[RTT\(\(Sqrt\(2p/3\12*\(Sqrt\(3p/8\p\(1+32p2  1 The rate is then adjusted according to the receiver with the smallest feedback value, which is designated as the CLR. Two principal modifications are performed. First, a proactive preventive congestion control mechanism is implemented within the source. The mechanism is based on the continuous monitoring by the source of the RTT between itself and the current limiting receiver. Second, each of the receiver estimates its target throughput based on a new equation derived using a model of a multicast source controlled according to the AIMD approach Y. Richard Yang Simon S. Lam. [1 is c ussed m u lticast  congestion control is still a new and active research area. They identified 3 key problems and discussed the current proposed solutions. This also makes a proposal to improve upon the current best approaches. Because of the complexity of multicast congestion control, many problems have to be solved to form a complete solution. For example, one problem we did not discuss is how to limit the local recovery bandwidth in reliable multicast congestion control Yuan Gao et.al ga ve ra t e b a s ed co nge st i o n c o nt ro l  scheme, RACCOOM. In the absence of packet loss, a RACCOOM sender adjusts its sending rate in a TCP-Vegas fashion, based on the congestion status of the on-tree path with the largest RTT \(called the target path\ In case of packet loss a RACCOOM sender then resend by reducing its sending rate by half. An ACK aggregation method is judiciously devised to prevent ACK implosion and yet to provide the sender with a simple but comprehensive view of congestion conditions in the multicast tree. RACCOOM also achieve \(weighted\airness among competing connections by exploiting feedback control theory and appropriately selecting the parameters used in the rate adjustment mechanism Bian Jing Wang et.al. [1  p r opo sed a ne w c o nge st i o n  control protocol BDP for layered multicast. BDP uses delay parameters SRdeg and SRdet to estimate the path's available bandwidth in the decision of layer join. If the available bandwidth can sustain the cumulative rate of the next layer, a layer join can be done Yiu-Wing Leung. [1 f o r m ul a t ed a n d s o l v ed a  c o nge s t i o ncontrol problem in multipoint videoconferencing. In this problem, the packets of different conferences are multicast to different number of conferees, and hence, the loss of a different packet will affect a different number of people. The resulting congestion control strategy has three attractive features. It has a control parameter. We can tune this parameter to make a tradeoff between the mean quality of service and fairness. It only involves some simple arithmetic and logic operations, and some operations can be executed in parallel. Using hardware realization, the strategy can be executed quickly for real-time congestion control Xuan Zhang et.al. [1 in tr o d u ce d  on e m u lticas t c o n t r o l  scheme on many-to-many videoconferencing ET-MCC. The end-to-end loss rate are measured and aggregated to one performance server. Bottleneck links are located via tomography methodology. By adjusting the rate of senders that affect the bottleneck links with the same rate adjusting ratio the sender-fairness could be achieved Fan Rui, Cheng Shi-Duan. [31  pr o vi d ed m ul t i c a s t  congestion control is the key technology for multicast to be deployed in Internet widely. Currently, single-rate multicast congestion control scheme achieves both TCP-Friendly and scalability but does not solve the problem of intra-group fairness. Slow receiver will slow down the rate of the faster receiver and ultimately the throughput of the whole group Multi-rate multicast congestion control scheme although solve the intra-group fairness problem but at the expense of TCPFriendly. In this case, present a new single-rate multicast congestion control scheme. This algorithm solves the three 928 


In exiting approach PGMCC, TFMCC and LIMD sender send the data to receivers and receivers send the feedback to source via same path. So, source suffer from the implosion problem means it exhaust from feedback if there are more number of receivers. Therefore, we are using the architecture for proposed work is as shown in the figure 1. It consists of one sender also known as server and \220n\220 receivers. Server sends the packets  929 Used architecture A 2014 International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development INDIACom challenges that multicast congestion control faces, TCPFriendly, Scalability, Intra-group fairness by way of TCP-like window mechanism in receiver and filtering mechanism in intermediate routers Gu-In Kwon and John W. Byers. [4 p r esen t e d a m u ltip le  rate multicast congestion control design that leverage proven single rate congestion control methods by orchestrating an ensemble of independently controlled single rate sessions. A compelling argument for this new methodology is its evident simplicity: unlike all other viable multiple rate congestion controls protocols. Authors required only a small amount of carefully crafted new functionality Mariusz Glabowski et.al. [21  pr es en t ed an a p p r ox im ate  method of blocking probability calculations in switching nodes of virtual circuit networks carrying a mixture of different traffic streams, including multicast traffic. This mixture can be composed of an arbitrary number of unicast and multicast traffic classes. The base of the method is the generalized model of the limited-availability group, i.e. group of separated transmission links of various capacities Sherlia Shi, Marcel Waldvogel [22 p r esen te d a m u lticast  congestion control scheme based on dynamically identifying the congested sub trees in the network and adjusting data rate according to feedback from these sub trees Rui Fan, Shi-Duan Cheng, Yu Lin giv e m u ltic a s t  congestion control is the key technology for multicast to be deployed in Internet widely. Currently, single-rate multicast congestion control scheme achieves both TCP-Friendly and scalability but does not solve the problem of intra-group fairness. Slow receiver will slow down the rate of the faster receiver and ultimately the throughput of the whole group Multi-rate multicast congestion control scheme although solve the intra-group fairness problem but at the expense of TCPFriendly Yiu-Wing Leung. [2 f o r m ul a t ed a n d s o l v ed a  c o nge s t i o ncontrol problem in multipoint videoconferencing. In this problem, the packets of different conferences are multicast to different number of conferees, and hence, the loss of a different packet will affect a different number of people Jiang Li, Shivkumar Kalyanaraman. [3 pr es en t e d a s i n g l e  rate source-based multicast congestion control scheme. The only support from receivers is output rates at their ends. Based on the output rate feedbacks, the source choose one of the slowest receivers as Congestion Representative \(CR\, and then adapts the transmission rate correspondingly. Authors have designed several mechanisms to keep the CR choice stable and valid, and checked the performance of the whole scheme with simulations. The simplicity and the way to choose CR distinguish our scheme from previous work e.g. PGMCC [11 TFMCC [1 a n d M D P C C  8   T h i s sc he m e ha nd l e s  congestion control only, thus can be used in combination with other \(e.g. reliability\emes. Due to its simplicity, it can also be potentially deployed on gateways to separate a multicast tree into different segments, each of which can have its own rate, so that heterogeneous receivers may get data at their individually desired rates W. Kammoun and H. Youssef. [3 prop o s e d i m p r o ve m e nt  to the TFMCC protocol via the adoption of a new equation to determine the acceptable rates of the multicast receivers. The new equation was derived from an analytical model that abstracts the behavior of a multicast source controlled according the Additive increase and Multiplicative Decrease AIMD\ategy. Simulation results show a remarkable improvement in throughput performance Gu-In Kwon and John W. Byers. [20  pr es en te d SMC C   a  multirate equation-based multicast congestion control that leverages a proven single rate congestion control method TFMCC\ by orchestrating an ensemble of independently controlled single rate sessions. By maintaining appropriate invariants on the session rates of the individual TFMCC flows specifying a clean mapping from reception rates to subscription levels and providing a non-disruptive method for additive increase join attempts, authors build a sound multiple rate multicast congestion control scheme Sunil Kumar and Karan Singh i m p r o ved ve r s i o n o f t he AIMD approach w h i c h i s a n e q uat i o n-b a s e d si ngl e ra t e  MCC technique. Two principal modifications are performed First, each of the receiver \(highest packet loss\timates its throughput based on a equation derived according to the LIMD approach. Second, a hybrid rate-base preventive congestion control mechanism is implemented within the source. It improves in throughput; reduce rate fluctuations, RTT, and reduces the packet loss. It can be concluded that the totally throughput achieved in the case of LIMD approach is in the range of 40 to 57 kbps. But in the case of AIMD it is in the range of 32 to 50 kbps. Hence the throughput is good. On the other hand packet loss is very less We proposed new equation that will use in extended logarithmic increase and multiplicative decrease congestion control \(ELIMD\to solve the problem in PGMCC and TFMCC. The two modifications are performed. First, each of the receiver estimate its throughput based on a new equation derived according to the ELIMD approach and second we follow the modified architecture for same  III  PROPOSED  WORK To solve the problem of multicast congestion, Pragmatic General Multicast Congestion Control, we have used the adaptive mechanism for increasing rate or decreasing rate when congestion take place or network is underutilize. The congestion control provides the batter process for network in logarithmic increase multiplicative decrease in used. The proposed work is known as extended logarithmic increase and multiplicative decrees \(ELIMD\ongestion control. The contribution in paper is as follows 


and the rate decrease by the reduction factor Second measure the capacity of receivers \(Rc\which is equal to capacity of resource \(maximum number packets achieved at time 3 If there are some problem in network such as packet loss ore congestion occurs then send the feedback to source 5  increase factor In this paper, we have used the modified architecture and equation to control the congestion with respect to TFMCC PGMCC and LIMD. The propose algorithm of this research work is given in next section which follow the some parameters such as Zf: congestion factor, Pn: delay for the current packet, Pn-1: delay for the current packet, Zn+1 throughput after congestion, Rc: current rate, Zn: throughput before congestion, int: Initialize   A. PROPOSED ALGORITHM: ELIMD In case Network is under-utilized means receiver have less incoming packets to get more quality data, it send the feedback to source Sender sends the feedback request to receivers and receives response of feedback come from receiver. From feedback sender determine whether congestion occurred or not. In our approach, packet send by source are stored at intermediate node \(node have buffer\. In case packet size increases more than buffer size, packet loss will occur. Waiting time at buffer is defined as queue delay. Packet is send by source and packet are received by a node The new equation derived according to the extended logarithmic increase and multiplicative decrease \(ELIMD\ in congestion control approach. The feedback is provided by higher packet loss receiver and it is improvement of the PGMCC, TFMCC and LIMD techniques which are an equation base single rate multicast congestion control techniques. The modification are performed, first a receiver its throughput base on a new equation derived according to the ELIMD approach and second used architecture. It improves in throughput and reduces the packet loss. There is packet size 150 bytes and round trip time 300 millisecond, packet loss ratio 0.1 and there is no congestion in the network when sending rate increase by additive factor 930 In case network is congested then source decrease the rate If it is more than a threshold value then we may say 215Network is congested or receiver achieving degraded the quality of data\216 6 L/RTT,  e: natural number, L: packet size, RTT round trip time Main int packet size L = 150 int RTT  =  300 int First measure the throughput according Xc to equation 2 2  Then compare the Xc and Rc for finding the situation of network whether it congested or no congested \(underutilized 4 Propose Algorithm 0.65 int 0.1:3 Calculate X c e 1 B        log 2  We propose a modified congestion control scheme based new equation derived according to the extended logarithmic increase and multiplicative decrease \(ELIMD\ congestion control approach. As we describe above, ELIMD algorithm took adaption on the basis of network condition. This scheme control congestion based on throughput which calculated by new equation. In proposed scheme, adaptive decisions are taken by source at the same node on the basis of feedback it receives from receiver nodes. When receivers return back the feedback, source take decision on the basis of received packets throughput\ to control congestion and provide the better data quality.  Main steps are following 1 Initialization Phase  at network situation while it is congested or underutilize Xc = e log2 packet loss ratio Congestion\ //Decrease rate  Z n+1 Zn* Z f Throughput calculation  Else If \(X c R c Condition  -\203\203\203\203\203\203\203\203\203\203\203\(2 Where 2014 International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development INDIACom 1 reduction factor   While \(session is start==True  If \(X c R c Condition -  =  L/RTT  = 0.5 int Under Utilize\ //Increase rate  Z n+1 X c Z n Throughput calculation    Architecture for Proposed work According to the feedback received, the server gives the decision to the receiver whether rate should be increase or decrease  Fig. 1 stream through IP-multicast to the receiver. If the receivers have the capability to receive all the stream of data packets then the quality of received stream will be high. If server does not have the capability to accept all the streams send by server then quality of received stream will be degraded. Every receiver send feedback through internet unicast to the feedback analyzer of sender 


end Network Simulator NS-2 is an open-source simulation tool that runs on Unix/Linux/Windows Table 1: Simulation Parameters Fig. 2   Explanation     Simulation Environment  Figure 2: Simulation Topology For the multicast topology, senders \(0 and 1\ and receivers \(2 3, 4 and 5\which support 1.5Mb \(0 and 1\, \(1 and 2\0Mb, \(1 and 3\ 10Mb, \(1 and 4\ 10Mb, \(1 and 5\ 10Mb link for transferring the data. RED and Drop Tail are used as Queue This is the multicast topology which is used to generate the result. There is a one sender and four receivers. It is basically a wired connection topology. We have also test while using the network topology represented in figure 2, described by links of varying capacities. All the simulation runs in a multicast session in TCP friendly multicast congestion control TFMCC  Parameter Throughput of Propose Algorithm A B  Fig. 3  Fig. 4  Fig. 5 L 150-7000 20 bit Drop Tail 0.65 931 0.1 then the throughput obtained by the TFMCC=9.84 kbps, PGMCC=10.57 kbps, and ELIMD=11.05 kbps Therefore, provides the batter throughput in ELIMD  IV  RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION We have simulated this work on NS-2 tool. NS-2 is network simulator and is open source software. As per requirement, we create network in NS-2 and we simulate that network on different parameters to get the optimum solution which is given in table 1  Queue size 5 Bandwidth W.S Result Discussion Throughput Vs Time Throughput of PGMCC Packet size 1.5-11\(mb BW 2014 International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development INDIACom RED Queue Reduction ratio 0.1-0.9 Increasing  Value  The loss event ratio between 0.1 and 0.9, R deduction factor varies factor 0.65 to 2,and packet size defined  L between 150700 bit, queue size is used as Drop tail Bandwidth is use in between 1.5-11mb, and increasing factor varies between 0.5 and 0.9,and selected the window size is 20 bit The figure 3 shows the throughput performance at different time for different value of the TFMCC where X-axis time \(sec and Y-axis demonstrate the throughput in kbps Example: The following parameter L=150; RTT=300 factor 0.5-0.9 factor 0.65-2 Window size Loss event 


Christos, Bouras Apostolos Gkamas et. al \215Comparison of Single-Rate Multicast Congestion Control Protocols vs. ASMP\216 International conference on Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Computers and Telecommunication Systems, MASCOTS , 8-10 Sep. 2008 4 L . Vicisano, J . Crowcroft, and L . Rizzo, "TCP- like Congestion Control for Layered Multicast Data Transfer,\216 Proceeding of INFOCOM, 1998 7 Xuan Zhang, Chongrong Li ,Xing Li, Congxiao Bao.\216 Multicast congestion control on many-to-many videoconferencing\216. 2008 Second International Conference on Future Generation Communication and Networking, 2008  Xuan Zhang, Chongrong Li ,Xing Li, Congxiao Bao.\216 Multicast congestion control on many-to-many videoconferencing\216. Second International Conference on Future Generation Communication and Networking. 30 December 2008 Kwon, G.I., Byers, J.W. \215Smooth multirate multicast congestion control\216. Twenty-Second Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications, MA, USA, 09 July 2003 5 Y. Richard Yang ,Simon S. Lam.\216 Internet Multicast Congestion Control: A Survey\216.Communication Surveys & Tutorials,IEEE 01 December 2009  John Byers and Gu-In Kwon, \215STAIR: Practical AIMD Multirate Multicast Congestion Control\216 Technical Report, Boston University Boston, MA, USA, 2001 9 Christos Bouras, Apostolos Gkamas and Georgios Kioumourtzis 215Evaluation of Single Rate Multicast Congestion Control Schemes for MPEG-4 Video Transmission\216Next generation internet network,2009 31 July 2009  Yuan Gao, Jennifer C. Hou, Senior Member, IEEE, and Sanjoy Paul Senior Member, IEEE.\216 RACCOOM: A Rate-Based Congestion Control Approach for Multicast\216. IEEE Transactions On Computers, Vol. 52 No. 12, December 2003  A.Tanenbaum,\216 Computer Network\216,Fourth edition,Prentice Hall, 2009 2  Ashraf Matrawy And Ioannis Lambadaris.\216 A Survey Of Congestion Control Schemes For Multicast Video Applications\216. Ieee Communications Surveys & Tutorials,Volume:5 ,Issue:2,Pp.22-31,2003  A. Legout and E . Biersack, "PLM: Fast Convergence for Cumulative Layered Multicast Transmission Schemes , " Proc. of SIGMETRICS 2000, pp. 1 3-22 8 Ralph Wittmann.Martina Zitterbart\216Multicast Communication\216.Morgan Kaufmann publishers, 2001 3 X . Li, S . Pau, and M . Ammar, "Layered Video Mu lticast with Retransmission \(L VMR\: Evaluation of Hierarchical Rate Control Proc. of INFOCOM 1 998, PP. 1 062-7 2 6 Comparative Throughput  The figure 6 shows the comparison of throughput of TFMCC PGMCC and ELIMD. Where X-axis shows different approach and Y-axis network throughputs. The result show that proposed work is better than exit one  Comparative Throughput  V  CONCLUSION The concept Multicast Congestion Control is the emerging issue which deals with exploitation of applications i.e videoconferencing, multicasting on the Internet. There are different issues because of different requirement of multiple receivers; it causes the problem of scalability. With the help of multi-rate approach, it provides the solution of heterogeneity On the other hand when the single rate is used for all the receivers then adjustment of sending rate is solved by applying the sending rate of current limiting receiver. It is basically the lowest capacity among all of receivers A new mechanism is developed to minimize the congestion which is based on throughput. In this proposed approach the network source adapts the network feedback. This is sent by highest packet loss receiver and increase or decrease throughput based on the propose equation. When there is no congestion source increase the throughput to utilize the network to provide the better quality of data. It basically uses the ELIMD approach. Results are simulating in NS-2 and shows it provide the better throughput exist one  REFERENCES 1 Michael Luby, Vivek K. Goyal, et al. \215Wave and equation based rate control using multicast round trip time\216 Proc. of the conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communications, Volume 32 Issue 4, New York, NY, USA , October 2002  Bian Jing WANG Ze-Qiang KE Hao-He, ZHANG Guang-zhao.\216 Congestion Control Protocol Based on Delay Parameters for Layered Multicast Communication\216.Communication Technology,2006.ICCTinternatioal conference on  10 April 2007  932 2014 International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development INDIACom                      Fig. 6 Fig. 7 Lin SHEN, Haidong FENG and Xiangquan SHI.\216 A New Multi-rate Multicast Congestion Control Protocol\216. Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Networking, Sensing and Control Okayama, Japan, March  2009  W.Kammoun, H.Youssef. \215Improving the Performance of End-to-End Single Rate Multicast Congestion Control\216.Computer and communication,2008.ISCC. 6-9 July 2008  Yiu-Wing Leung,.\216 Congestion Control for Multipoint Videoconferencing\216IEEE Transactions On Circuits And Systems For Video Technology, Vol. 10, No. 5, August 2000  The figure 4 shows the throughput performance at different time for different value of the PGMCC where X-axis time \(sec and Y-axis demonstrate the throughput in kbps The figure 5 shows the throughput performance at different time for different value of the ELIMD where X-axis time \(sec and Y-axis demonstrate the throughput in kbps  


abowski, Maciej Stasiak, Piotr Zwierzykowski.\216 Multicast Connections in a Virtual Circuit Switching Node\216. Proceedings of the Advanced Industrial Conference on Telecommunications/Service Assurance with Partial and Intermittent Resources Conference/ELearning on Telecommunications Workshop . 2005  Jiang Li, Shivkumar Kalyanaraman,\216 An End-to-end Multicast Congestion Avoidance Scheme with Feedback Suppression\216. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas In Communications, Vol. 22, No. 23 March 2004  Yiu-Wing Leung, Senior Member, IEEE.\216 Congestion Control for Multipoint Videoconferencing\216. IEEE Transactions On Circuits And Systems For Video Technology, Vol. 10, No. 5, August 2000  Sherlia Shi ,Marcel Waldvogel.\216 A Rate-based End-to-end Multicast Congestion Control Protocol\216. International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid Information Technology. 2000  Rui FAN, Shi-Duan Cheng, Yu Lin.\216 Wrhmcc: A New Congestion Control Mechanism for Multicast Applications\216. GLOBECOM 2003  Rui FAN, Shi-Duan Cheng, Yu Lin.\216 Wrhmcc: A New Congestion Control Mechanism for Multicast Applications\216. GLOBECOM 2003  W. Kammoun and H. Youssef,\216 Improving End-to-End Multicast Rate Control in Networks\216. computer communication ISCC IEEE,2009  2014 International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development INDIACom 933 Fan Rui, Cheng Shi-Duan.\216 A Multicast Congestion Control Scheme for Heterogeneous Receivers\216. Proceeding of Communication Technology ICCT2003  Sunil kumar and Karan Singh.\216 Efficient Single Rate based Multicast Congestion Control\216.IJCA Proceedings on National Conference on Innovative Paradigms in Engineering and Technology, Number 15,2012                  Chenghao Liu, Imed Bouazizi and Moncef Gabbouj,\216Multi-buffer base congestion control for multicast streaming of scalable video\216.ieee ICME 2010  Gu-In Kwon and John W. Byers,\216 Leveraging Single Rate Schemes in Multiple Rate Multicast Congestion Control Design\216. IEEE Journal on Selected areas in Communications, Vol. 22, No. 10, December 2004  S. Deering, and B. Hinden.\216 Internet Protocol, Version 6 \(ipv6 Specification\216. RFC 2460, Internet Engineering Task Force, December 1998S. Deering, and B. Hinden. Internet Protocol, Version 6 \(ipv6 Specification. RFC 2460, Internet Engineering Task Force, December 1998   Gu-In Kwon and John W. Byers.\216 Leveraging Single Rate Schemes in Multiple Rate Multicast Congestion Control Design\216. IEEE Journal On Selected Areas In Communications, Vol. 22, No. 10, December 2004  Georgios Kioumourtzis et.al,\216 Adaptive Smooth Simulcast Protocol ASSP\ for Video Applications: Description and Performance Evaluation\216. Journal of Network and Systems Management,19 June 2011   Mariusz G Je-young Yu and Yu Lin,\216 Wrhmcc: A New Congestion Control Mechanism for Multicast Applications\216. GLOBECOM 2003  


Fig 12 Output of the No Transfer Prior-feature and MKTL model using prbf kernel and NaiveBayes classiìer 6A PPLICATIONS With the increase in recognition accuracy of the MKTL framework it can be brought to use for object classiìcation in an automated video surveillance system Due to the unconstrained prior model and transfer learning approach requiring very few labeled samples for training this approach will be a step forward from the traditional machine learning approach when employed in a surveillance system 7F UTURE W ORK In future a more robust probabilistic model for the prior knowledge representation will lead to further improvement in the accuracy of the MKTL framework The MKTL framework can be tested with more datasets to generalize it for different types of data used for testing and training 8C ONCLUSION We compared the performance of the MKTL model using SVM and Naive Bayes classiìer which showed a wide gap between the two models performance with the former outperforming the later The reason is the Bayes assumption of the features being independent We also attempted at modifying the Multi Kernel Transfer Learning framework by using prbf kernel instead of rbf kernel which turned out to be better representation of image features for obtaining the prior knowledge The proposed change has improved the recognition accuracy of the system by about 15 This has been possible by making use of the fact that the better the kernel function can map an input data into a higher dimensional space the better is the efìciency of the SVM classiìer R EFERENCES  Luo Jie T atiana T ommasi and Barbara Caputo Multiclass transfer Learning From Unconstrained Priors IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision ICCV  November 2011  F  R Bach G.R.G Lanckriet and M I Jordan Multiple k ernel learning conic duality and the SMO algorithm ICML  2004  P  Gehler and S No w ozin On feature combination for multiclass object classiìcation ICCV  2009  C H Lampert H.Nickisch and S Harmeling Learning to detect unseen object classes by between-class attribute transfer CVPR  2009  T  T ommasi F  Orabona and B Caputo Safety in numbers Learning categories from few exampleswith multi model knowledge transfer CVPR  2010  Ashraf A E A Zanaty  and Said Ghoniemy  Impro ving the classiìcation accuracy using support vector machines SVMs with new kernels Journal of Global Research in Computer Science JGRCS  February 2013  Sinno Jialin P a n and Qiang Y ang  A Surv e y on T ransfer Learning IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering  October 2010  Herbert Bay  T inne T uytelaars and Luc V a n Gool Surf Speeded up robust features ECCV Conference  2006  Ashesh Jain T utorial on SVM and Multi K ernel Learning MKL Internet:http://www.cse.iitd.ac.in  ee5070403 Tutorial.pdf Aug 25 2011 Oct 1  F  Orabona L Jie and B Caputo,çOnline-batch strongly convex multi kernel learning CVPR  2010  D G Lo we Object recognition from local scale in v ariant features ICCV  1999  Y a n K e Rahul Sukthankar  PCA-SIFT  A More Distincti v e Representation for Local Image Descriptors CVPR 2004  Qiang Y ang Introduction to T ransfer Learning Internet http://lamda.nju.edu.cn/conf/MLA07/ìles/YangQ.pdf 2007[Oct 1  Hill T  and Le wicki StatSoft Inc 2013 Electronic Statistics Textbook Tulsa OK StatSoft WEB http://www.statsoft.com textbook Oct 1  Na vneet Dalal and Bill T riggs,çHistograms of oriented gradients for human detection CVPR  2005  Sarfraz S Hell wich O.,çHead Pose Estimation in F ace Recognition across pose scenarios Proceedings of VISAPP Int conference on Computer Vision Theory and Applications  2008  Krystian Mik olajczyk and Cordelia Schmid  A performance evaluation of local descriptors IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence  2005  W e n yuan Dai Qiang Y ang Gui-Rong Xue and Y ong Y u  Boosting for transfer learning Proceedings of the 24th international conference on Machine learning ICML  2007 41 


   9  Figure 10:  Solar Array Test Temperatures   Figure 11:  Typical Current Signature  Trapezoidal  Rectangular  


   10   Figure 12:  Infrared Image of a Panel during Test   Figure 13:  Final LADEE Test   6  M AINTENANCE   I NSPECTION   AND R EPAIR  Receiving Inspection  Beyond testing, the LADEE team used tried and true methods of visual inspection and record keeping from receipt through launch.  The panel vendor accompanied the initial delivery of hardware to NASA ARC and participated in an on site inspection, thereby do cumenting the initial state of the hardware.  Throughout during Integration and Test \(I&T\, the LADEE test team performed their own visual inspections of the hardware.  This best practice resulted in the discovery of two panels with minor damage  Launch Site Inspection  Following shipment to the launch facility \(NASA Wallops Flight Facility, Virginia\, the manufacturer performed an on site inspection and repair of the panels.  Roughly 15% of the array was found to have minor cracks and damage due to  handling \(Figure 14\.  During an extended stay at Wallops Island, the repair team was able to fix all affected panels with no issues \(Figure 15\.  The simplicity, portability, and ease of operation of the lamp test fixture made it easy to re evaluate all repaired panels prior to launch.  Note the inspections and final test were not part of the project\222s original \(observatory LAPSS test\ plan   Figure 14:  Damaged LADEE Solar Cell   Figure 15:  Cell Repair at the Launch Facility   7  M ISSION O PERATIONS  A ma jor assumption that enabled the entire risk mitigation process was the allocation of manufacturer\222s per panel LAPSS data for requirements verification, LADEE EPS modeling and mission operations tools.  Several factors can invalidate that assumption.  One obviously, is any damage and repair that could occur prior to launch.  Another is degradation; though LADEE is a short lifetime mission some level of radiation or micro meteorite damage will occur.  A final factor, shadowing, is less a function of the pan els themselves than the spacecraft geometry Protrusions in the spacecraft will tend to shadow portions of the array, and predicting that behavior can be extremely complex.  Neither the lamp test nor a LAPSS would completely account for shadowing.  All of  these factors feed into the need to continuously evaluate the health and performance of the solar array through mission operations  


   11 This would be relatively simple if the spacecraft\222s COTS avionics measured current from each panel, or even each switch.  Unfortunately this is not the case; only one measurement is made for the entire solar array system This design approach, while appropriate for a low complexity Class D system, is highly inconvenient for debugging any type of photovoltaic system failure   During Operational Readiness Training \(ORTs\, the LADEE EPS team developed a method to evaluate panel performance throughout the mission.  The approach illuminates the interdisciplinary nature and value of mission operations experience, even for the hardware designer.  In this case, the ORT campaign engendered collaboration between the EPS and Guidance, Navigation, and Control GNC\ teams that led to a solution.  The EPS team discovered that the GNC system design includes calculation and storage of the spacecraft sun vector as part of its attitude determination process.  As mentioned, the EPS subsystem records the solar array current and number of closed switches.  The EPS analysis tool simply combines the downlinked sun vector with the EPS data and a ge ometrical spacecraft model to determine an expected array current and the derived error \(Figure 16\.  Observation of the spacecraft over a combination of attitudes can be used to back out the behavior of individual panels, thereby updating the manufacture r\222s data   8  C ONCLUSIONS  The LADEE program applied true Class D risk tracking and mitigation techniques to address a major technical risk.  A project decision driven by resources, combined with redefinition of risk metrics, forced its staff to reconsider st andard practices and determine what was really necessary The process of test research development, execution, and risk closure took roughly 10 weeks \(Figure 5\.  The total cost was roughly 12% of the industry standard \(LAPSS solution in materials costs  and 12 labor hours per test Further, the theatre lamp approach is easy to train with and portable.  When combined with standard visual inspection it actually added value over the LAPSS approach in this application.  The test proved the system met powe r generation requirements 6 weeks prior to launch.  Post launch, interdisciplinary approaches proved useful to track performance of the array in flight.  Finally, the entire approach can be easily handed down to future missions   A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work  was performed under the direction of Joseph Camisa, who served as the LADEE EPS Lead until his retirement in mid 2013.  Additional notes of appreciation go to the NASA GSFC Power Group \(Code 563\, the Emcore inspection and repair staff, and the LADEE Syst ems Engineering, Project Management, and Integration and Test teams for their participation in this work        Figure 16 226 Mission Operations Tool Overlays Expected and Actual Generated Array Current  


   12  R EFERENCES  1 H i n e B u t l er et  al   223 T h e L u n ar  A t m o s p h er e an d D u s t  Environment Explorer Mission,\224 in Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Aerospace Conference, Big Sky MT, 2010, pp. 1 9  2 N a tio n a l A e r o n a u tic s a n d  Space Administration, \(1993 Aug. 15 The Large Area Pulse Solar Simulator \(LAPSS Online  A v a ila b le  http://ntrs.nasa.gov   N a t i on a l A e r on a u t i c s a n d S pa c e A d m i n i s t r a t i on   2013   June 12 Risk Classi fication for NASA Payloads Online   NPR 8705.4, Change 2   O f f i c e of P r oc u r e m e n t  2012 A ug  10    Large Area Pulsed Solar Simulator 226 LAPSS 226 Testing  Online   Available http://fedbixopps.gov  5 Ca m i sa  J   2010, Aug. 12 Electrical and Power Systems Specification  Online S P E C 004.LADEE.EPSS Revision NC, Internal use only   E m c or e P h ot ov ol t a i c s  2012 J u n e 15   End Item Data Package for LADEE  Online  I nt e r na l u s e o nl y   F or g i on e  J    201 3  F e b 14 LADEE Solar Panel Continuity Test Online   I T 271.LADEE.SPCT Rev. A Internal use only   H u ds on J r   R i c h a r d D    223 I n f r a r e d R a di a t i on  224 i n Infrared System Engineering 1 st  ed., New York: Wiley, 1969, ch. 2 pp. 35 36  9  B ie b l  B   e t a l  2 0 09, Sept 8 ARRI M18 Spectral Data  Online  E m a il to a u th o r     B IOGRAPHY  Josh Forgione  received the B.S degree in E lectrical E ngineering from Virginia Tech in 2000.  He joined NASA in 2002, first at Goddard Spaceflight Center GSFC\ and then Ames Research Center in 2007.  Josh\222s hardware deliverables are currently flying on the Aquarius/SAC D satellite, the NASA ER 2, Global Hawk, and WB 57 aircraft, and multiple airborne instruments.  He joined LADEE in 2011 and currently serves as the LADEE Elect rical Power System lead through mission operations.  His interests span electronics and electrical systems, particularly on analog design for scientific instruments and power systems  Gilbert Kojima  was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, in 1949.  He received the  B.S and M.S degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Hawaii Honolulu, HI, in 1971 and 1974 respectively.  He is began his career at NASA, Ames Research Center \(ARC\, Moffett Field, CA as a physicist, then as an electrical/electronics e ngineer During his career at ARC, he has designed and developed numerous electronic instruments and major electrical control systems to support the diverse array of research and development activities at NASA.  One of his major career accomplishments was  as the principal tunnel conditions controls engineer for Unitary Modernization Project.  His interest includes anything new and challenging involving electrical/electronic design    Robert Hanel is a Systems Engineer at NASA Ames Research Center current ly working on the Lunar Atmospheric Dust Environment Explorer \(LADEE\ Mission Robert has 25 years of experience working instruments spacecraft systems, and mission designs for NASA scientific mission including work on Planetary Astrophysics, and Space Biology Missions. Robert has a M.S. and a B.S in Electrical Engineering from California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo   Mark Mallinson  began working at NASA Ames Research Center in 1988 and holds Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Mechan ical Engineering  Professional accomplishments include work on seven Space Shuttle missions three satellites, wind tunnels numerous aircraft and human rated test facilities  Areas of NASA experience include structural modeling, test verification  and an alysis, systems design, project management and systems engineering at the program and project levels  Mark has  held a number of systems engineering positions on the LADEE project including Risk Management Officer and manager of the project's Joint Confide nce Level \(JCL\ cost/risk/schedule statistical analysis    


                                   


                                              


                       


                   


                                                    


                    


                                           


                            


Transformational GovernmentóCo-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, CÈsar Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad R¯berg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems TrackóCo-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and PolicyóChair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Gˆran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologiesí State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catal„o, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Gˆran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable ResourcesóChair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fern·ndez Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark OíMalley Monitoring, Control, and ProtectionóChair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. DomÌnguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan ìManiî Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient NetworksóChair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation ToolóC GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare TrackóCo-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical InformaticsóCo-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cl·udia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and ApplicationsóCo-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health InformaticsóCo-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, J¯rgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, JosÈ A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fern·ndez, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge PlanningóExperiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara EriksÈn Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and AnalysisóCo-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in HealthcareóCo-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physiciansí Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn OíMara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy ParÈ, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klˆcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare EnvironmentsóCo-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Sˆnke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim OíDonoghue, Noel OíKelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Kˆhler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patientsí Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, T¸lay ÷zata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for HealthcareóCo-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy TrackóCo-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User ExperienceóCo-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?óA Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumersí Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alah‰iv‰l‰, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Ker‰nen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic MarketingóCo-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and ChasingóThe Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individualsí Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Arenít the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy ResearchóCo-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employeesí Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jˆrg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten ÷ks¸z, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital EconomyóCo-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on PurposeóFactors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open CommunitiesóCo-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire Itís Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel AndrÈ Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on SocietyóCo-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltr·n Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltr·n An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual UseóEmpirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rˆnkkˆ, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems TrackóCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of BeliefsóCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing SystemóA Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimar„es, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge SystemsóCo-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo K‰kˆl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo K‰kˆl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems ResearchóCo-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and SecurityóCo-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero P‰iv‰rinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge EconomicsóCo-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and ExchangeóCo-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individualsí Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity ManagementóCo-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth RodrÌguez, Jessica DÌaz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer PÈrez, and AgustÌn Yag¸e Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance MeasurementsóCo-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology TrackóChair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information SystemsóCo-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo K‰kˆl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmstrˆm, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropyís Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big DataóCo-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo B¸hnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and ChallengesóCo-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Kˆppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre MÈtrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process ManagementóA Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Kr¸p, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jˆrn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerstrˆm, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process IntelligenceóCo-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus N¸ttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational InnovationóCo-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria ≈kesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications IndustryóAn Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and JosÈe St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nˆhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bj¯rn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing WorkforceóCo-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 RenÈ Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developersí Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionalsí Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and AnswersóCo-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements UncertaintyóA Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and SocietyóCo-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic CommerceóEvidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis ResponseóCo-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System DesignóCo-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrˆdl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for DevelopmentóCo-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, FranÁois Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project ManagementóCo-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS OutsourcingóA Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its MechanismsóChair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. MaÁada, and Jo„o Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information TechnologyóCo-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the ìFuture School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical SystemsóCo-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria ≈kesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network OrganizationsóA Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS ResearchóCo-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS ResearchóA Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and TechnologyóCo-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT OutsourcingóA Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and FrÈdÈric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality ManagementóAn Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology TrackóCo-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and ProductsóChair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, DÈbora Martins, and Mariela CortÈs Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software EngineeringóCo-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar RodrÌguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fern·ndez-S·nchez, Jessica DÌaz, Jennifer PÈrez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and PracticeóCo-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian DíOrazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software AssuranceóCo-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and TrainingóCo-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud ComputingóCo-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data ProtectionóA Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and ManagementóCo-Chairs: Timo K‰kˆl‰ and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo K‰kˆl‰ and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 AgustÌn Yag¸e, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer PÈrez, and Jessica DÌaz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customerís and the Vendorís Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile PlatformsóCo-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 SÈbastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless NetworksóCo-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jest‰dt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


