SIDD: A Framework for Detecting Sensitive Data Exfiltration by an Insider Attack   Yali Liu Electrical & Computer Engineering University of California, Davis Davis, CA 95616 USA yliu@ece.ucdavis.edu Cherita Corbett and Ken Chiang Sandia National Laboratories Livermore, CA 94551, USA clcorbe, kchiang}@sandia.gov Rennie Archibald, Biswanath Mukherjee and Dipak Ghosal Department of Computer Science 
University of California, Davis Davis, CA 95616 USA rvarchibald, mukherjee ghosal}@cs.ucdavis.edu   Abstract  Detecting and mitigating insider threat is a critical element in the overall information protection strategy By successfully implementing tactics to detect this threat, organizations mitigate the loss of sensitive information and also potentially protect against future attacks.  Within the broader scope of mitigating insider threat, we focus on detecting exfiltration of sensitive data through a protected network. We propose a 
multilevel framework called SIDD \(Sensitive Information Dissemination Detection\ystem which is a high-speed transparent network bridge located at the edge of the protected network. SIDD consists of three main components: 1\network-level application identification, 2\ content signature generation and detection, and 3\t communication detection Further, we introduce a model implementation of the key components, demonstrating how our system can be deployed.  Our approach is based on the application of statistical and signal processing techniques on traffic flow to generate signatures and/or extract features for classification purposes. The proposed framework aims 
to address methods to detect, deter and prevent deliberate and unintended distribution of sensitive content outside the organization using the organizationês system and network resources by a trusted insider     1. Introduction  An insider attack describes the damage that can occur to the interests of an organization by a trusted individual with legitimate access to its network and system resources.  Such an attack can occur through an inadvertent security breach by an authorized user, a planned security breach by an authorized user, or by an 
outsider through a compromised system. The planned insider attack can results in the exfiltration or destruction of sensitive data or it can compromise the communications network and various network servers and resources In today s widely-connected network environments, a successful insider attack could result in serious damage to the interests of an enterprise [1 e rnm e n t s e ctors  wh ich prov ide acces s to  classified information to authorized personnel, are vulnerable to insider attacks. The private sectors, such 
as drug companies that maintain valuable and highly sensitive proprietary information, and banking institutions that manage the flow of monetary transactions, are also vulnerable to insider attacks.  In all of these instances, the consequences of an insider attack are dire, resulting in the loss of revenue, public distrust, as well as legal ramifications. Furthermore with greater accessibility and availability of sensitive information, insider attacks are likely to increas 
Compared to external threats, insider threats are more dangerous, devastating, and challenging to detect and prevent since trusted individuals have access privileges, know the networks, and also have specific information they wish to ex ith in  the  broader goals of mitigating insider attacks, our work only addresses the detection, deterrence and prevention of deliberate and unintended distribution of sensitive content outside of the organization using the organization s system and network resources by a 
trusted insider. In particular, we will focus on the outbound network traffic detection rather than inbound network traffic \(We refer to traffic traveling from the protected network to the external network as outbound, and to traffic in the other direction as inbound.\The key technical challenge is to detect Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


        these attacks despite transformations applied to the content, e.g. encryption, modulation by the communication protocol, slight modifications for the purpose of averting detection, and hiding of the content using steganography tools In this paper, we propose a multilevel system called SIDD \(Sensitive In formation Dissemination Detection\, to detect the dissemination of sensitive information by an insider. Unlike previous work which seeks to deal with specific methods that an insider can use to exfiltrate data \(e.g e propos ed m u lti lev e l  structure is a unified framework for detecting the occurrence of information leakage. We present the implementation of the key components of proposed framework, which rely upon statistical and signal processing techniques applied to outbound traffic flows to generate signatures and/or extract features. These signatures are then used for analysis by the system to detect and prevent the leakage of sensitive information In addition, our scheme can apply to both anomaly and misu th at co n t rar y  to m i s u se  detection which can only detect attacks by comparing outbound traffic activity against the expected actions of an intruder, anomaly detection approaches must first determine the normal behavior of the object being monitored, and then use deviations from this baseline to detect possible attacks. Therefore, following the anomaly detection approach, we assume the existence of general patterns in outbound traffic which can be used to characterize the normal traffic behavior and identify anomaly insider attacks The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 provides example scenarios of insider threats and scopes the problem domain that we seek to address. In Section 3, we describe the architecture and the functionality of each phase of SIDD. In Section 4, we describe an example approach to implementing each component of SIDD system to illustrate the requirements in developing the system. Section 5     concludes the paper and points to the future research direction  2. Motivating examples and design space  We have designed a SIDD system to ensure that information leaving a protected network has been approved for release. In this section, we first describe motivating examples for creating such a system by examining two threat scenarios. Then, we define the key elements of general insider threat problems that we take into consideration when developing the SIDD system  2.1. Example threats  Consider the following scenario \(see Figure 1\: A company X outsources its customer service to another company Y by establishing a shared \(enterprise network connecting their corporate LANs. In the service process, X needs to provide proprietary documents and manuals to Y, but it does not wish to share some sensitive/proprietary information. A malicious insider Z seeks to 1\door networks to enable loss or damage of protected information and 2\ exfiltrate sensitive/proprietary information using the enterprise s network resources To avoid detection, Z may transform the original content using compression, translation to another format, or encryption.  Z might also use a higher bandwidth mechanism such as a peer-to-peer \(P2P  network to leak information. P2P protocols are usually blocked by firewalls on enterprise networks due to their known use for illegal file sharing and identity theft. However, P2P communication can be tunneled over an authorized protocol \(e.g., HTTP\/mask its identity in order to penetrate the firewall  addition, a more clandestine way to conduct espionage over the enterprise network is to use a covert channel Figure 1. A motivating example for sensitive data exfiltration and detection Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


Video Server Signature Store Content Provider Service Provider Subscriber/Insider DVR   Enterprise Network Downstream Flow Upstream Flow SIDD Internet Egress point   to hide communication. For example, a communication protocol such as Skyp be u s ed to h i de bits of  information into the payload of the communication While Skype samples and encodes voice calls into packets for transmission, a portion of the bits can be altered using steganography techniques m bed information without any perceptual impact on the quality of the voice call. This covert channel can be used to send command and control messages, secret keys, as well as to exfiltrate sensitive content Another example of threat is content redistribution scenario \(see Figure 2\elevision service providers are rapidly deploying IPTV network deliv er a wide variety of video content to subscribers over the Internet. Using Set-Top Boxes \(STBs\ or personal computer with enterprise network access, encrypted video content may be delivered to an authorized subscriber \(insider\rough an on-demand service request or live broadcast. The downloaded video stream may be legally decrypted upon receipt for viewing and stored in a Digital Video Recorder \(DVR Then, the subscriber can redistribute and pirate the decrypted content to millions of unauthorized viewers Consequently, content providers risk loss of revenue and the authored content suffers losses from infringement of copyright laws and other restrictions  2.2. Scope of the insider threat  To address the above threats, our goal is to architect a system that detects and prevents the leakage of sensitive information from a protected network to an external network. We illustrate our approach with two examples. However, there are many variations to these types of attack. Here we highlight the key elements that in our view are critical due to the varieties of threats, different forms of communication channels insider types, or content types 2.2.1. Communication channel To disseminate sensitive information to someone outside the corporate network, the insider might use overt, tunneled, or covert communications Overt  communication is intended legitimate communication that is open observable, and identifiable \(e.g., HTTP, IRC Additionally, privacy of its contents may be preserved from unauthorized users using communication protocols such as HTTPS, SFTP, and SSH Tunneled  communication is unauthorized communication \(that would ordinarily be blocked\ tunneling over an authorized overt channel. Additionally, its features are cloaked to masquerade  as legitimate communication e.g., P2P over HTTPS Covert  communication is clandestine communication embedded into the header or/and payloads of an overt channel using steganography techniques to hide the fact that communication is occurring  2.2.2. Content type Sensitive information ranges from personal identifiable information \(e.g., social security numbers, credit card numbers, etc.\tellectual property. This information could be contained in a static file \(e.g., image, software program, and excel spreadsheet\multimedia session \(e.g., telephone conversation and video conference\nsitive information may be leaked to an outsider in its original, modified, or hidden format. Content in its original format has not been modified in any way Modified content includes content that may be compressed, padded, encoded into a new file type, or encrypted Hidden content includes content that has been embedded into other content or the communication protocol using steganography techniques  2.2.3. Insider type There are different types of insiders that result in information leakage: inadvertent intentional, and malicious. An inadvertent insider is a trusted person with access to sensitive information who inadvertently discloses sensitive information. An intentional insider is a trusted person who knowingly discloses sensitive information and is aware of the security that it is purposefully bypassing. This person may try to manipulate the content or use overt communication that preserves privacy to avoid detection. A malicious insider is also a trusted person who knowingly discloses sensitive information However, in addition to manipulating the content or using overt communication like an international insider, tunneled or covert communication is usually employed to avoid detection  Figure 2. Sensitive data exfiltration and detection in content redistribution scenario Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


Signature Store  Deep Packet Inspection tool Traffic Retrieval Content Signature Matching Steganalysis Classifier Training Content Feature Extraction Content Retrieval Content Signature Generation Covert channel detection Content detection Application identification Traffic Feature Calculation Traffic Classification Response   Critical Data Repository   3. Structure of SIDD system  Figure 3 shows the architecture of the proposed SIDD system and its deployment in the network. To detect and prevent the leakage of sensitive information SIDD is placed at the network egress to monitor the traffic flow outbound from the protected network. It provides an interface to network management to define the exit policy and take a responsive action \(i.e generate alarm, drop packets, flag offending traffic for investigation, etc The Critical Data Repository shown in the Figure 3 represents sensitive content \(e.g., files, audio, video images, etc.\at needs protection. To begin, SIDD   retrieves traffic off the network via a commodity Deep Packet Inspection \(DPI\ol. The captured network traffic is filtered into the application identification system \(phase 1\xtract traffic features. Some traffic characteristics, such as the temporal patterns and sizes of packets, will be used to instantiate different application features. By these means, SIDD allows proper policing of application traffic to dictate what traffic is allowed across the network boundary. If the system confirms that the traffic is coming from a potential dangerous application, it may automatically exit and take a responsive action. Note that, in this stage, SIDD can also provide knowledge about the structure and semantics of the communication, type of the system, type of the client, network connectivity Figure 3. Sensitive Information Dissemination Detection \(SIDD\ system Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


etc., all of which are useful attributes for the successive detection stages After the traffic flow passes through the application identification checking process, it will pass into the Content Retrieval process and the content of application will be analyzed by the content detection stage \(phase 2\he Content Signature Generator is used to generate the content signatures of sensitive content which are stored in the Signature Store. It will also generate the signature for content traversing the network to be compared using the matching algorithm with the stored signatures in order to detect dissemination of sensitive content. Similar to the first phase, if the SIDD system confirms a match in content detection phase, it may automatically exit and take a responsive action. Otherwise, the retrieved content will pass to the covert channel detection process \(phase 3 to explore covert communication establishment To detect the existence of covert communication some statistical features that can capture natural correlation inherent in media will be generated. The resulting features and the system classifier, which has been trained with the same features stored in the critical data repository, will be input to perform Steganalysis ine th e pres e n ce of h i dde n information in the target cont ent. In this final step SIDD may only be able to detect the presence of hidden content and not fully recover the content for comparison. In this case, the traffic can be labeled as suspicious to warrant further investigation of the host and end-user that generated the traffic Overall, the SIDD system provides mechanisms for reviewing objects to determine if the object is approved for release. When the internal network traffic passes through, SIDD parses the flow and waits for the server response. It may perform up to three-phase checks in a response time to determine how to filter outgoing traffic to prevent exfiltration of sensitive information  4. Methodology and performance  In Section 3, we described the key challenges and identified the multiple components of a tool that can be used to detect sensitive data exfiltration by insider attacks. In this section, we provide the detailed algorithm for each component of SIDD and some preliminary experiments to evaluate the algorithms  4.1. Application identification  The goal of application identification phase is to identify the application generating traffic based on characteristics of its flow. Voluminous aggregated traffic, use of encryption, and use of cloaking software  0 5 10 15 20 0 1 2 3 4 5 x 10 5       Capture Variance   Social-Networking   Web-Mail   Streaming-Video     to avoid identification make the analysis and classification of traffic a challenging task Research has been done in the identification of network protocols such as SSH, HTTP, FTP, and SMTP [12s a res u lt so m e e x i s ti n g al g o rithms  and tools can be easily implemented in SIDD to allow proper policing of application traffic to dictate what traffic is allowed across the network boundary. In particular, content signature and identification leverages application identification as a filtering mechanism and to gain awareness about the structure and semantics of the communication, type of the system, type of the client, network connectivity, etc On the other hand, the traffic tunneling over the same protocol is indistinguishable, which may lead to potential security and performance issues. For example, HTTP has become the universal entry mechanism to the corporate network, penetrating through firewall protection. However, HTTP is a very vague classification since numerous applications are built on top of it.  Unlike classical techniques [12 which have focused on course-grained categorization of traffic \(HTTP vs. FTP\, we seek to make a finer distinction within the broader categories \(hotmail vs gmail both applications using HTTP\.  To classify applications we can leverage time domain, frequency domain and wavelet-based [1 al y s is on attribu t e s  of the network traffic \(such as the packet inter-arrival time and packet size,\enerated by the application In order to accurately identify the overriding applications in a given network flow of outgoing traffic from a given host, we investigate the characteristics of different applications over the same protocol Specifically, the captured network traffic with the DPI tool will perform Traffic Retrieval to get some useful information by gleaning the packet headers instead of requiring information from the payload. This is Figure 4. Identification of Web application based on the variance of incoming packet sizes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


important since our system can now work even when the payload is encrypted. The retrieved traffic will go to Traffic Feature Calculation block to obtain a set of features that remain relatively constant and unique to a particular type of web application. Particularly different signals derived from the network flow, e.g the packet inter-arrival times and packet sizes, will be extracted from the network flow. We have investigated if characteristics, such as the temporal patterns and sizes of packets, can instantiate a signature with a high degree of confidence. Figure 4 plots traffic features the variance of incoming packet sizes\generated from incoming packet size of three different classes of applications, namely, social networking \(MySpace and Facebook\web-mail \(Gmail and Hotmail\d streaming video applications \(Youtube and Veoh running on HTTP.  These categories cover the majority of the applications that are prevalent in today s networks and therefore are good representatives for the application examples. The particular statistic exhibits consistent behavior across different captures. More importantly, the results show that the applications do indeed have discernable characteristics for all the three analysis techniques. After sufficiently characterizing the traffic categories mentioned above, a Traffic Classification system will be able to automatically identify the applications of flows on a network Note that our technique can help to solve application identification problems in two different ways. On the one hand, it can be used to identify the application generating the traffic based on characteristics of its flow without relying on content level information. On the other hand, it can help to identify the application even if it attempts to mask its features by tunneling over another application or even encrypted protocol, e.g., POP over SSH. Although this paper reports only preliminary results related to the first class of applications, the methodology can be applied to the second class of problems as the dissimilar traffic behaviors driven from different applications are very useful for the detection of protocol tunneling problems [17   4.2. Content signature generation and detection  Application identification can provide some useful information which allows proper policing of application traffic to dictate what traffic is allowed across the network boundary. However, deep analysis of the flow content may be necessary for detection deterrence, and prevention of deliberate and unintended distribution of sensitive content outside the organization by generating a legal application channel     or using of an existing enterprise connection created by a trusted insider The goal of content signature generation and detection stage is to create network traffic based content signatures and a method to compare signatures to detect exfiltration of se nsitive/protected content Specifically, some content information such as volume of packets, will be operated on packets to first perform Content Retrieval. The retrieved content information is treated as a time series which allows us to use signal processing techniques and tools to analyze these signals. The premise of Content Signature Generation is to create a signature based on the content itself such that attempts to modify the content to evade detection render the content useless to the outsider at the receiving end. Additionally, compact signatures will be developed to support faster detection especially for larger volume content In our work, we use video redistribution as an example. To create unique, compact, and robust signatures for video content, we extract a time series or signal\ s from the size of frames of a video stream A key issue of using the content itself as a signature is that of scalability arising from the size of the signature As a result, it is important to reduce the size of the signature by only keeping some of the key attributes of the content. In our research, we use wavelets reduce the size of the signatures. While there are many advantages of using wavelets to analyze signals, the most important ones are: a\ime-Frequency Localization which allows us not only to know what the characteristic frequencies in the signal are, but also where approximately in time they occur; and b Multi-Resolution Analysis which allows the analysis to Figure 5. Wavelet-based video signature for the signal s of Star wars IV  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


be performed at different levels of resolution or scales Figure 5 illustrates the coefficients of the wavelet transform applied to a portion of the video traffic from the Star Wars IV m h e approx i m ation an d  detailed coefficients are shown for up to 5 levels Another important focus of our work is on the Content Signature Matching technique. One specific problem is the following. Given a portion of a video stream captured from the network, the task is to determine if it is part of a protected video for which signatures have been created a priori and stored in a signature store. With the unique, compact, and robust signatures generated by the Content Signature Generation block, some statistics distance, i.e., crosscorrelation, will be adopted to estimate the degree to which two series are correlated. This technique is effective when the monitore d content is identical to the sensitive information in the media database and even when the monitored content has some distortion during the transmission process. For example, various possible video traffic rate adaptation scen resulting from network congestion or server overload may cause the video traffic and its signatures captured from the network to differ from the ones saved in the signature store. The insider may also evade detection by transcoding h e v i de o s t rea m an d or i n j ect i ng noise which may impact the short-term correlation Figure 6 shows the robustness of the algorithm measured by the receiver operating characteristics ROC\rve, which is a plot of the false positive rate versus the false negative rate in one rate-adaption case see Figure 6\s the length of a captured video clip by frames \(the video clips is around 5 minutes when N = 8192\These preliminary results show that wavelet-based signatures have good performance both in terms of false positive and false negative probabilities compared to direct perform comparison of the signal in the time domain  4.3. Detecting covert communication  Covert communication is clandestine communication which hides the fact that communication is indeed occurring. For example steganography is a form of covert channel to hide the presence of communication through the embedding of a secret message in an innocuous carrier medium, such as digital audio, image, and video. Instead of direct exfiltration of sensitive content, exfiltration of sensitive information may be performed by using covert.  The content may be hidden spatially, temporally, or even in the transform domain spaces; and the content may be encrypted before it is embedded in a carrier.  By slightly altering the binary sequence of the distributed sensitive content samples with existing steganography    0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 False Negative Rate False Positive Rate   N = 8192, Wavelet N = 8192, Time N = 2048, Wavelet N = 2048, Time N = 1024, Wavelet N = 1024, Time    tools, the covert channel may be relatively easy to establish. The insider may also use the dedicated communication channel \(of the enterprise network\ to set up covert communication and then distribute sensitive content. For example, some features of the TCP/IP protocol suite can be used to send covert messages d a ti m i ng bas e d cov e rt ch a n n e l ca n be set up by varying the rate of sending jobs  Therefore, one key aspect of the SIDD system is the development of methods that can be used to detect the presence of covert communication channels Particularly, some statistical features that can capture the change of the media/traffic characteristics by the distortion introduced with hidden information are extracted in the Content Feature Extraction process. As the data embedding method is typically unknown prior to detection, the signature needs to be independent of the steganography algorithms used. The defined feature vector will be used in classifier training with the available media files or communication information in critical data repository. The test content communication will go through the same procedures of feature selection and then used to judge the existence of covert communication In general, there are many different types of carriers: 1\tructured carrier such as networking protocols, and computer languages such as XML, 2 unstructured carriers such as still images, audio streaming video, and natural languages, 3 dynamic/real-time carriers such as a live real-time multimedia session \(i.e., VoIP session\nd 4\ming carriers in which the information is hidden through the timing of packet arrivals. In this paper we assume unstructured carriers without loss of generality. In Figure 6. Comparison of Receiver Operating Characteristics \(ROC\ based on the time-domain signal and its wavelet-based signatures Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


particular, we focus on detecting digital audio medium as covert channels. We believe that the techniques presented here could be applied in detecting some other types of covert channels also With the rapid proliferation of Voice over Internet Protocol \(VoIP\d other Peer-to-Peer \(P2P\dio services such as Skype, covert channels using digital audio may be relatively easy to establish T h e inherent redundancy in the audio signal and its transient and unpredictable characteristics imply a high hidden capacity. This is further aided by the fact that the human ear is insensitive to small distortions in the audio signal. All these make audio a good candidate for use as a cover for covert communications by hiding secret messages and also for exfiltration of sensitive and protected content. Therefore, in our work we use audio steganalysis as an example to explain how to perform covert channel detection. Note that although we use audio files as the target carrier medium, the methods can be generalized to other types of media files As hiding information in digital media requires alterations to the signal s properties as well as introducing some form of degradation that can be measured by some standard audio quality metrics distortion measures have been shown to be effective to test the presence of hidden messages.  In our work, we propose an audio steganalysis scheme that measures audio content distortion using Hausdorff Distan  Unlike previous work in audio steganalysis that used the traditional audio quality metrics [25 su c h a s  signal-to-noise ratio \(SNR\erceptual Audio Quality Measure \(PAQM\d other such metrics, the proposed distortion measure is designed specifically to detect the existence of covert communication modifications to pure audio content\ follows Given an audio object x which could potential involved with a covert communication, we consider its de-noised version x as an estimate of the reference object. After appropriate segmentation 1 we apply wavelet decomposition to both x and x to generate wavelet coefficients at different levels of resolution Next, Hausdorff distan s ed to tes t the  similarities between the wavelet coefficients of sensitive audio and their reference values. The statistical moments of these Hausdorff distances are used as the features to train a classifier on the differences between known pure content and the modified audio files with covert channels Figure 7 plots the correct classification rates as a function of the hidden ratio with numerous audio   1 To get a good local distortion estimation, the audio file is split into small segments so that the distortion analysis can be performed separately on the individual segments    10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Hidden ratio Correct Classification Rate   Proposed algorithm HOMWC SMCFWS QMGAQM  sequences and compares the classification rate with three different reference algorithms, i.e., High-Order Moments of the Wavelet Coefficients of the audio signal \(HOMWC is tical Mo m e n t s of t h e  Characteristic Functions of Wavelet Sub-bands SMCFWS\ [28  Q u a l ity Me a s u r em e n t w i th G e n e r a l Audio Quality Metrics \(QMGAQM\5  T h e resu lt shows that our algorithm has a strong discriminatory ability and the performance is significantly superior to existing methods. Moreover, as the proposed scheme makes no assumptions about the embedding technique used, it can be easily extended to other steganography tools and algorithms  5. Conclusion and discussion  Insider attacks are most damaging to the interests of an enterprise and government organizations. Mitigating insider attacks requires addressing multiple problems This paper developed a systematic approach to address the key problems of detecting the exfiltration of sensitive content. Particularly, a multilevel framework that composed of application detection, content signature generation and detection, and covert channel detection was proposed. Based on our preliminary results, we feel encouraged that we will be able to significantly extend the state-of-the-art in addressing a critical problem in network security Although the experimental results are encouraging the following are some of the issues that need to be addressed. First, in this work, we constrain ourselves to one specific case when providing the preliminary results in each component of the framework, i.e., 3 web-based applications for application identification video redistribution detection for content signature generation and audio steganalysis for covert channel detection. The methodology and testing need to be Figure 7. Comparison of correct classification rate among audio steganalysis algorithms Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


extended to other types of problems at each category which will make them more applicable in practice Second, the algorithm measurement is applied to different components of SIDD independently Systematic performance reporting on a real prototype system that is subjected to rigorous tests employing a broad range of exfiltration attempts need to be investigated  6. References  1 M R. Ra n d azzo  M. Keen ey E. K o w a lsk i D. Cap p e lli  and A. Moore Insider Threat Study: Illicit Cyber Activity in the Banking and Finance Sector CERT and the National Threat Assessment Center, Aug. 2004  2 E. D  Sha w K  G  Rub y and J  M Pos t  The insider threat to information systems: The psychology of the dangerous insider Security Awareness Bulletin, vol. 2-98 pp. 27-46, Sept. 1998   L  S p i t z n e r  Honeypots: catching the insider threat  Proceedings of 19th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference, pp. 170-179, Dec. 2003   N Ngu y en  P  Rei h er G  H Ku en n i n g   Detecting insider threats by monitoring system call activity IEEE Information Assurance Workshop, pp. 45-52, June 2003    P  G a o n j u r an d C Bo kho ree  Risk of Insider Threats in Information Technology Ou tsourcing: Can deceptive techniques be applied School of Business Informatics University of Technology, Mauritius, 2006   A  Ora m  Peer-to-Peer: Harnessing the Power of Disruptive Technologies O'Reilly & Associates, 2001  7 Y  Z h a o N  L i a nd C  W a ng  Remote wireless transmission and error recovery of log data Applied Geophysics, vol. 4, pp. 308-312, 2007  8 sk y p e http://www.skype.com   9 J. Dittm a nn, D. He sse a nd R. Hille rt Steganography and steganalysis in voice-over IP scenarios: operational aspects and first experiences with a new steganalysis tool set Proceedings of SPIE on Security, Steganography, and Watermarking of Multimedia Contents VII, vol. 5681, pp 607-618, Magdeburg, 2005  10 U  J e nne ha g a nd T  Zhang   Increasing bandwidth utilization in next generation IPTV networks Proceedings IEEE International Conference on Image Processing \(ICIP pp. 2075-2078, Oct. 2004  1 N F  Jo hn son  and S  Jajodia  Steganalysis of images created using current steganography software David Aucsmith \(Ed.\ormation Hiding, LNCS 1525, pp. 32-47 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 1998 12 L  Be rna ille R T e ix e i ra I A k odk e nou A  Soule  a n d  K. Salamatian Traffic classification on the fly ACM SIGCOMM Comput. Commun  Rev  vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 2326, 2006  13 G  Bis s i a s M. L i be ra tore  D  J e ns e n a n d B. L e v i ne  Privacy Vulnerabilities in Encrypted HTTP Streams  Proceedings of  Privacy Enhancing Technologies Workshop pp. 1-11, 2005  14  T.T.T. Nguyen and G. Armitage, çA Survey of Techniques for Internet Traffi c Classification using Machine Learningé, to appear in IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials, 2008  15 T  K a ra g i a nnis  K  P a pa g i a nna k i a nd M. Fa l outs o s   BLINC: multilevel traffic classification in the dark ACM SIGCOMM Comput. Commun. Rev., pp. 229-240, 2005  16  C. S. Burrus, R. A. Gopinath, and H. Guo, Introduction to Wavelets and Wavelets Transforms, a Primer, Upper Saddle River, NJ, Prentice Hall, 1998  17 Crott i  M. D u si F. G r ing o li L  Sa lg a r e lli Detecting HTTP Tunnels with Statistical Mechanisms IEEE International Conference on Communications \(ICC 07 pp.6162-6168,  2007   A  H a m p a p ur a n d R  M B o l l e   C om pa r i s on of d i s t a n c e  measures for video copy detection Proceedings  of IEEE Int Conf. Multimedia and Expo \(ICME\. 737-740, Aug 2001    Video traces for network performance evaluation  Online A v a ila ble   http://www.tkn.tuberlin.de/research  trace/trace.html   20 A  R  R e ibm a n, S. Se n, a nd J  V. de r Me rw e   Network monitoring for video quality over IP Picture Coding Symposium, 2004  21  A. Vetro, C. Christopoulos, and H. Sun, çVideo transcoding architectures and techniques: an overview Signal Processing Magazine, IEEE, vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 18-29 Mar 2003    C. Rowland http://www.firstmonday.dk/issues/issue2 5/rowland   23 S  L i pner A comment on the confinement problem  Fifth symposium on Operating systems principles, pp. 192 197, Nov. 1975    Y. Liu, K. Chiang, C. Corbett, R. Archibald, B Mukherjee, and D. Ghosal A novel audio Steganalysis based on high order statistics of a distortion measure with Hausdorff distance 11th Information Security Conference\(ISC\008, Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 5222, pp. 487-500    O z e r I. A v c i ba s  B  Sa nkur a nd N   Me m on  Steganalysis of audio based on audio quality metrics Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Security and Watermarking of Multimedia Contents, pp. 5566. Santa Clara, 2003  26 D   P. H u tte nl oc he r, D  K l a n d e r m a n a nd W  J  Ruc k lidg e  Comparing images using the Hausdorff distance IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence vol. 15, pp. 850-863, 1993   H  Fa rid   Detecting hidden messages using higherorder statistical models IEEE International Conference on Image Processing, vol. 2, pp. 905-908, 2002  28 Y  Q   S h i  G  X u a n  C  Y a n g  J  G a o  Z  Z h a n g   P   Chai, D. Zou, C. Chen, and W. Chen Effective Steganalysis Based on Statistical Moments of Wavelet Characteristic Function IEEE International Conference on Information Technology, pp. 1195-1198, 2005  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


This figure presents the data flow through main blocks that can be used a few times and special blocks that must execute only particular functions Here also Configurator of chain and Sequences library for WiMAX/UMTS modules are equipped First one is responsible for right construction of next processing path and second one stores necessary number of elements After signal verification system is reconfigured according to input data and with using the chosen protocol type The OUTPUT connects to radio link and then signal must be transmitted over one of six channel types And at the reception side we configure the receiver in relation to transmitted mode 5 HARDWARE PLATFORM SELECTION Current technologies in a hardware environment allow to test our system in real-time implementation There are a couple of DSP based platforms that can be selected for validation from Lyrtech Inc the Small Form Factor SFF Software Communication Architecture SCA Development the Small Form Factor SFF Softwaredefined Radio SDR Development Platform the Small Form Factor SFF Software-defined Radio SDR Evaluation Module 20 All these platforms are based on TMS320DM6446 DMP SoC from Texas Instruments 21 For the proposed SDR based system we chose the SFFSDR Evaluation board see Figure 13 as far as this platform supports WiMAX technology model based design tools accelerating prototyping implementation of all protocols layers for complete radio stacking extra boards operates with 297MHz ARM926EJ-s RISC CPU and 594MHz C64x DSP in sense of power management this module has MSP430 MCU Due to an availability of Virtex-4 SX35 FPGA from Xilinx 22 this module can perform implementation of full modem processing functions that is very important feature in meaning of multi-protocol architecture of our system We are able to vary our requirements to each protocol inside the same hardware structure Figure 13 SFF SDR development platform by Lyrtech 6 PROTOTYPING THE WiMAX/UMTS SYSTEM The WiMAX/UMTS system is implemented in high-level language as C with the class library The main accent was done on the correct form of the signal processing sequence The path for WiMAX or UMTS signal is determined in the beginning and system should verify its entity leads the system in a relevant direction The main goal of this software implementation is to check how our system can handle the input signal sequence The simulation was carried out for following parameters for each subsystem For UMTS we consider transport block with 1280 bits size frame size is 2400 bits channelization code with 16 chips sequence For WiMAX we generate the bit block is equal to 1280 bits however during channel coding operation this block is divided on turbo coding block that include 384 bits The size of turbo coding block forms from the block determination corresponding modulation type and number of subchannels During software verification we obtained that our proposed model can separate different paths subject to a type of an inter sequence in the software environment The framework of our WiMAX/UMTS system went through one scenario step and now we are directed to an extension of this model For the more detailed system visualization we integrate our C code modules into MATLAB library by means of proper dynamic linking libraries dll compiled by using the MATLAB C compiler Each block can be formed with extended parameters Modules with C code configurate the system work in a host This host implementation will present a prototype This prototype will help to analyze future real-time hardware implementation MATLAB prototype can also provide debugging of real system the result of real system must be equal to our MATLAB prototype Next step of the work development and verification is to implement it into the hardware platform based on DSP DSP based platform allows to organize signal processing in a digital presentation that serves SDR based part of our general system 7 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we considered the framework of WiMAX/UMTS baseband level system for mobile device in UL transmission direction We presented the different signal processing structures based on OFDM and WCDMA physical layer procedures Our research work is mainly devoted to developing the approach of seamless switching between different subsystems that can be realized by SDR technology implementation To this end we proposed a possible solution to allow coexistence of different data transmission technologies 11 


The position of SDR blocks in common UMTS/WiMAX architecture for mobile terminal was shown in this paper We presented the different blocks of each subsystem and have identified three blocks which can be implemented as common SDR blocks These blocks include channel coding module interleaver module and data mapping module We also demonstrated the work of our system in the software environment Next steps of the UMTS/WiMAX system development are preparation of the specification and implementation of all possible scenarios Each scenario will include particular blocks parameters and common description of main blocks But we have to be carefully in case of main blocks description because there are a plenty of features 8 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We gratefully acknowledge the company Arslogica that kindly provided us the hardware support for our experimental studies 9 REFERENCES 1 A Samukic UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System development of standards for the third generation Proc of 1998 IEEE GLOBECOM Conf Sydney AUS Nov 8-12 1998 vol.4 pp.19761983 2 N Fourty T Val P Fraisse and J.-J Mercier Comparative analysis of new high data rate wireless communication technologies From Wi-Fi to WiMAX Proc of the IEEE Autonomic and Autonomous Systems and International Conf on Networking and Services ICAS-ICNS 05 Oct 23-28 2005 pp.66-66 3 M Komara SDR Architecture Ideally Suited for Evolving 802.16 WiMAX AirNet Communications SDR Forum Exhibition 2004 4 I Held 0 Klein A Chen C.-Y Huang and V Ma Receiver Architecture and Performance of WLAN Cellular Multi-Mode and Multi-Standard Mobile Terminals Proc of 2004 IEEE VTC Fall Conf Los Angeles CA Sept 26-29 2004 vol 3 pp 2248 2253 5 IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Part 16 Air Interface for Fixed Broadband Wireless Access Systems 2004 6 R Weigel and L Maurer  D Pimingsdorfer A Springer RF Transceiver Architectures for W-CDMA Systems Like UMTS State of the Art and Future Trends Proc of the Intern Symp on Acoustic Wave Devices for Future Mobile Communication Systems Chiba JP March 5-7 2001 pp 25-34 7 P-W Fu and K.C Chen A Programmable Transceiver Structure of Multi-rate OFDM-CDMA for Wireless Multimedia Communications Proc of 2001 IEEE Vehicular Technology Conf VTC-Fall 2001 Atlantic City NJ Oct.7-11 2001 vol 3 pp 1942-1946 8 L Zhigang L Wei Z Yan G Wei A Multi-standard SDR Base Band Platform Proc of 2003 International Conference on Computer Networks and Mobile Computing Shanghai PRC Oct 20-23 2003 pp 461 464 9 C Moy A A Kountouris L Rambaud and P Le Corre  Full Digital IF UMTS Transceiver for Future Software Radio Systems  Proc of ERSA 01 Conf Las Vegas NV June 25-28 2001 10 3GPP TS 25.201 Physical layer general description 11 K.R Santhi and G.S Kumaran Migration to 4 G Mobile IP based Solutions Proc of International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services/Advanced International Conference Feb 2006 pp 76 76 12 S Zhu M Song Y Li J Song and F Ren Simulation platform of WCDMA based on software defined radio Proc of 2nd ACM International Conference on Mobile Technology Applications and Systems Nov 2005 pp 1-5 13 L Ma and D Jia The Competition and Cooperation of WiMAX WLAN and 3G Proc of 2nd International Conference on Mobile Technology Applications and Systems Nov 2005 pp 15 14 J Mitola III Software Radio Architecture ObjectOriented Approaches to Wireless Systems new ed Wiley New York 2004 15 R Seungwan 0 Donsung S Gyungchul and K Han Perspective of the next generation mobile communications and services Proc of IEEE 2004 Int Symp on Personal Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications PIMRC 2004 Barcelona SP 5-8 Sept 2004 vol.1 pp 643-647 16 E Biglieri Coding for Wireless Channels  Springer New York 2005 12 


17 3GPP TS 25.212 Multiplexing and channel coding FDD 18 IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part 16 Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband Wireless Access Systems Amendment 2 Physical and Medium Access Control Layers for Combined Fixed and Mobile Operation in Licensed Bands and Corrigendum 1 2006 pp 0_1 822 19 3GPP TS 25.211 Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto physical channels FDD 20 Data sheet from Lyrtech Inc http available at htp c hwwkneopusff _.l/p.s/lrtehs _sr d21]D ateforomTdf 21 Data sheet from Texas Instruments http available at 22 Data sheet from Xilinx http available at httll/www.xilinx.com 23 L Hanzo W Webb and T Keller Singleand Multicarrier Quadrature Amplitude Modulation  Wiley New York 2000 titled Wireless and Satellite Communications  The research interests of Dr Sacchi are mainly focused on wideband mobile and satellite transmission systems based on space time andfrequency diversity multi-user receivers based on non conventional techniques neural networks genetic algorithms higher-order statistics-based receivers etc cross-layer PHY-MAC design and high-frequency broadband satellite communications He is currently local coordinator for University of Trento of research projects dealing with reconfigurable communication platforms based on MIMO techniques and space-time signal processing ICONA project funded by MIUR and with exploitation of W-band for broadband satellite communications WA VE programs funded by ASI Claudio Sacchi is author and co-author of more than 50 papers published in international journals and conferences and reviewer for international journals and magazines IEEE Transactions on Communications IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications IEEE Communications Letters IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Electronics Letters Wireless Networks IEEE Communications Magazine etc Dr Sacchi is member of the Organizing Committees and Technical Program Committees of international conferences like ICIP ICC GLOBECOM ACM-MOBIMEDIA etc Claudio Sacchi is member of IEEE M'01 SM'07 BIOGRAPHIES Olga Zlydareva is a PhD student of the University of Trento Italy She obtained her Master degree in Design Electronics Systems with specialization in High Radio Frequency Devices from MATI Moscow State Aviation Technological University named after KE Tsiolkovsky Moscow Russia Her research interests have oriented on the Software Defined Radio Technology Wireless Technologies Cellular Technologies Tunable devices Multi-standard systems Multi-protocol systems Physical layer of mobile devices Reconfigurability and Reprogramming of mobile devices The recent research focuses on the development of the baseband level of multistandard mobile devices based on SDR technology Claudio Sacchi was born in Genoa Italy in 1965 He obtained the Laurea degree in Electronic Engineering and the Ph.D in Space Science and Engineering at the University of Genoa Italy Since August 2002 Dr Sacchi has been holding aposition as assistant professor at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Trento Italy In 2004 he was appointed by the Department of Information and Communication Technology of the University of Trento as leader of the Research Program 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


