Towards a Pan European e-ID Interoperability Infrastructure  Arnold van Overeem Capgemini arnold.van.overeem@capgemini.com  Jos van Oosten Q-tips jos@qtips.nl    Abstract  The proliferation of e-Services in most European Countries has been favorable to the emergence of common  identity providers and national identity management infrastructures in these countries. The STORK project aims to interconnect all of these identity management infra-structures to form a PanEuropean federated e-Identity space. In this paper we show that due to two different identity concepts in use 
by the European countries, this objective is a far from trivial challenge Based on our analysis we present two scenarios homogeneous interoperability for countries with alike identity concepts and heterogeneous interoperability for countries with different identity concepts. For the latter case we present three solution directions to overcome technical limitations and challenges The STORK project is co-funded by the European Union and will deliver real solutions by implementing five demo projects  1. Introduction  In recent years significant progress has been made with the introduction of e-Services by public administrations. Although the ambition set by many 
governments in Europe [1 ha s no t  ye t b e e n a c h i e ve d   many countries now have e-strategie at ai m to  enable secure access to their e-Services for businesses and citizens. 7 countries are deploying eID cards and 14 more are currently designing eID cards for future roll-out. 14 countries have public sector controlled PKI schemes in place. 15 countries use multilevel authentication schemes for public services [3  Many e-Services store data about persons and require identification of the person who wants to use the service. This identification is needed to select the 
correct data that apply to the person requesting the service, but also to protect his privacy.  Some services require a payment for the delivery of the service, and some services are related to long term base registrations that may affect the future relation between a citizen or business and public administrations. Many e-Services only provide access to registered users Examples of e-Services that require identification and are candidates for cross-border access are: building permit request handling; subscription to university education; application fo r a driving license. A prioritized list of relevant e-Services has been 
developed by the European Commission Depending on the nature of the service, some degree of certainty must exist that a person who wants to access a service is appropriately identified and authenticated. For identification and authentication of users identity systems have been developed and alongside with these, identity management schemas. In many public e-Services persons could have several roles, e.g. be citizens, or business representatives or public servants. Access rights to services depend on the role of the person, and are generally managed by the providers of the services 
Traditionally each service provider or even each service had, in order to implement proper access restrictions for its services a proprietary identity management function, resulting for the users in an ever growing number of access codes to remember. With more and more services becoming e-Services the need for a common identity management infrastructure has become apparent d th i s is th e s u bj ect of th e  present paper. Identity providers as trusted 3rd parties that assure service users identity to multiple service providers have emerged as a solution. The STORK 
project aims to setup a Pan-European identity management infrastructure, that will enable citizens to have a single registration of their identity at a recognized identity provider and use the services of this identity provider to access all e-Services in all EUMember States and associated countries This ambition either makes the assumption that it will be possible to establish a Pan-European identity service, or to define a Pan-European standard for identity providers. In both cases the resulting identity management infrastructure must be capable to provide 
authentication with an adequate assurance level to any public e-Service across Europe The underlying assumption is that there is a priori agreement about the nature of identity itself; this however is being challenged [6 T h is paper rev i e w s  the fundamental differences in identity concepts, and in the way identities can be managed, and explores what Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


requirements an identity provider must fulfill to be compatible with an e-Service Based on our analysis we describe the generic relation between an identity provider and an e-Service provider [7 s described by B i rch  Elliott an d  McEvoy [8 t w o  f und a m e n t a l l y d i ffe r e nt r e l a t i o ns hi p s  exist, which have implications for the way e-Services can be supported by an external identity provider. In line with Martens we have dubbed these the blue model and the green model  1  In this paper we propose a procedural gateway as an enabler for cross-model interworking between eServices and identity service providers, as well as three different interim approaches that do not depend on a procedural gateway. We assume that interoperability concepts are relatively independent from identification methods, or that any dependencies can be solved on a national level. We also assume that the interoperability concepts for e-Identity are independent of the nature of the e-Services that require some form of identification  2. The nature of e-Identity  Identity is a subject of intense debate and research in the European Union for a number of years now [9 In this paper we will restrict the discussion about identity to people in any role. Some of the concepts and solutions also apply to legal entities and/or to animals and goods \(e.g. ship-containers\he main differences relating to identification / authentication methods Identity in the e-Services world usually is defined as a unique set of facts about a person that make him distinguishable from all other persons h is  definition has two flaws, which limit its usability in practice 1 Until all other persons have been identified, it is not certain that any given set of facts is really uniquely applicable to the single person of reference In some cases however, the degree of uncertainty can be significantly reduced by the availability of certain metadata about the facts 2 Data that represent facts about people may have different and unknown degrees of veracity, both because some described facts may change over time, or because the quality of the information itself is imperfect. This imperfectness can be due to inaccuracy, misinterpretation, misunderstanding and/or deliberate falsification, and further be complicated by   1  The terms blue and green do not have any other meaning then to reference the two fundamentally different concepts of identity that are discussed throughout this paper. This paper does not intend to express any preference for either concept, nor tries to present a comparative  overview of the two  the notion that a person may not want to reveal some facts in order to protect his privacy For practical purposes standard sets of facts about a person have come into use as source of identification.  Name \(Family Name, Given Name place and date of birth, is a commonly used set of identifying facts that turns out to be sufficiently unique in most cases and is generally believed to be invariant over time and legislatively neutral To address the veracity issues of identifying facts about a person, a plethora of other facts than the commonly used ones have been proposed and practiced, generally classified in knowledge related facts, possession related facts and biometric facts. An identification verification scheme based on a combination of facts out of all three classes, or at least two classes is usually called strong authentication  and is currently believed to guarantee a higher degree of veracity then a simple validation scheme based on a single class of facts In traditional daily life identifying facts support the person of reference, but do not replace him. In eServices however, the person himself is not involved and an identity record, containing or referring a set of facts about him acts as a substitute for the person in his relation to e-Services. This different role of the identity record, makes the veracity of the data much more important, and the vulnerability to identity related fraud much higher. The government, as a large provider of e-Services therefore is a stakeholder for quality assurance of identity records 2  This raises the question who owns identity records In most countries legislation has been passe h at  sets restrictions and requirements to organizations holding collections of personal records, but in most cases the ownership of the identity records is not clearly or not uniformly defined su bs equ e n t  years the evolution of identity management has come to two different and contradictory views on the nature of identities in a \(government owned\ data store 1 The identity record describes an identity which is an attribute assigned to a person in order to function as the digital representation of that person in one or more contexts 2 The identity record describes a person directly and may contain artificial attributes assigned to him by an identity service provider in order to represent him The latter approach places the identity provider as the master source of control, and rather would make the person an incarnation of the identity record. The    n this  pa pe r w e m e an w ith i d e n t i t y re co r d s any dat a r e co r d e d  about a person in order to enable his authentication; this is a subset of personal records in general; we use the term credentials to denote another subset of personal records: the data required to grant or deny authorization to an e-Service  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


identity provider defines and controls identity records even when the service user pushes the buttons His role often is limited to the selection of services and to validate his identity record. Typically each person is attached to one identity record, that may contain a wealth of privacy sensitive information, depending on what is required by various services. We call this the blue paradigm or blue model The former approach typically places the person himself as the master source of truth for the use of identity records. The person self is in control of identity records, and the iden tity provider is used to validate its content. A person typically can have multiple identity records, which may or may not share identifying facts, and that can be used in different contexts or for different roles that person may have We call this the green paradigm or green model In the green paradigm it is feasible that a single person owns multiple identities, typically related to different roles of that person, and it might be difficult or deliberately impossible to relate the provision of different  services to that person by different service providers, when these services where obtained using different roles. In the blue paradigm the sharing of the same identity record by multiple service providers would make a composite profile of the person much easier, and thus it would be much more difficult to maintain the privacy of the person. In the blue model a person s privacy is totally dependent on legislation and its flawless implementation In both models a priori trust relations are supposed to exist between the user and the identity provider, as well as between the identity provider and the service provider  2.1 Identity Management according to the blue model In Figure 1 a simplified schematic overview is given of a service delivery implemented according to the blue model. The model is simplified as much as possible. Essence of this model is that the identity provider represents the service user. The identity provider does not have to be a system, but can be any type of digital asset, the operational characteristics of which, are controlled by the identity provider. The service user can have any form, including internet access, mobile access, access by means of a call center etc. The service user must be authenticated prior to the service request handling. The service user is not involved in the exchange-of-credentials dialog, and therefore cannot immediately control what facts about himself are revealed to the service provider. Often a policy can be established at the identity provider Based on this policy the service provider will either get all requested facts about the service user registered at the identity provider, or the service request will be canceled It is to be noted that the identity provider has access to information about the service request that the service user issued, also when the service is denied, and therefore has the possibility to collect facts about the user that can be used in future service requests Because a trust relation is assumed between the service user and the identity provider this does not have to be a problem. However, this fact makes identity providers a prime target for identity related criminal engineering The user therefore is for the protection of his identity and credentials totally dependent on legislation and the proper implementation of it both at the identity provider and the service provider  Provider trust domain blue User trust domain blue 1 Claim Service 2 Authenticate 3 Request Service 4 Ask Credentials 5 Provide Credentials 6 Deliver Service Service user Identity provider Service provider 1 6 5 4 3 2  Figure 1 - Identity provision in the blue model  Each identity provider will usually support only one single instance of the service user, and the service user often is limited in his choice of identity provider by the identification methods that the service provider supports  2.2 Identity Management according to the green model In Figure 2 a simplified schematic overview is given of a service delivery implemented according to the green model. Again the model is simplified as much as possible. Essence of this model is that the user is in control each time a service provider asks for proper identification. The identity provider is not involved in the service request and delivery and the service user can decide when credentials are asked whether to authorize the provision or potentially select an alternative identity provider or cancel the service request It is to be noted that the service provider is not aware, which identity provider will be selected by the service user until the identity provider fulfills the credentials request on behalf of the service user. The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


authentication of the service user takes place after the inquiry for credentials by the service provider. Because a trust relation is assumed between the identity provider and the service provider, the service provider can rely on the veracity of the credentials Because this model implies a competitive position for identity providers, it is likely that identity providers in this model will support highly customizable and granularly configurable services. By allowing and enabling to expose different credentials to different service providers, the privacy of the service users can have a high degree of assurance. Identity related crime in this scheme is much more difficult, as is the identification of criminals on the basis of profiles  User trust domain green 1 Request Service 2 Ask Credentials 3 Authorize Exposure 4 Authenticate 5 Provide Credentials 6 Deliver Service Service provider Service user 1 2 Identity provider 3 5 6 Provider trust domain green 4  Figure 2 - Identity provision in the green model  3. Scope of research and approach  In this paper we analyze the interoperability of identity providers in a cross-border situation where service user and service provider operate under different legislative contexts and each have a different trusted identity provider For focusing our analysis, we used the layered interoperability model proposed by van Overeem Peristeras and W h ich is consis ten t w i th the European Interoperability Framework \(EIF  and resembles the layer cake proposed by Berners Lee  th i s  m odel f o u r  la y e rs of i n teroperabilit y are defined, named from top to bottom: procedural semantic, technical and trivial \(see Figure 3 The bottom layer defines network infrastructure and connectivity functions. We also assume a fully developed technical layer that handles any syntax formatting, language substitution, currency and measures conversion, and similar requirements. Any interoperability issues of the service provision context that causes or triggers the identity provision has been considered outside the scope of our research We assume that the minimum assurance level of an identity doesn t depend on the service provider or the Member State for the same class of services. If for example for the service selling wine the only identification requirement is to prove that the service user is at least 18 years of age, this is assumed to be applicable for all wine selling services in all Member States, and by implication that the name and place of birth will never be required by the service provider for this type of service In this paper we concentrate on the semantic layer and the procedural layer only. The semantic layer describes the exchange of meaningful information by transposing messages with retention of meaning across different semantic contexts using a common or compatible business process. The procedural layer describes the interaction patterns required to enable dissimilar or incompatible business processes to collaborate for a common goal, in this case identity provision in order to support e-Service authorization This restricts our research topic to the exchange of identity related information in the context of a well defined service request, for which a well defined form of authorization, based on a well defined degree of identification is required  Trivial layer exchange layer ensuring that information that has to be shared can be properly received and recognised Technical layer syntactic layer ensuring that information that has to be shared and is correctly received and recognised can be properly read characterset, syntax, data formats, currency, units, presentation language, etc Semantic layer ensuring that information that has to be shared and is correctly read can be properly understood context specific metadata, ontologies, taxonomies masterdata Procedural layer  \(process layer ensuring that information that has to be shared and is correctly understood can be properly acted upon \(legislation, objectives, priorities, resources, retribution, deeds  Figure 3 - Layered Interoperability Model  In section 4 we discuss the application of semantic solutions between identity providers using the same business process model. In section 5 we describe the application of procedural solutions to handle the interoperation of identity providers using different incompatible\iness processes. Whereas section 4 and 5 describe generic solutions, section 6 describes a specific solution for providing identity in the absence of an appropriate implementation of a procedural layer by using the semantic solutions from section 4 in combination with supplementary implementations specific to identity provision Once a service user has been identified \(and possibly strongly authenticated\e service provider obtains some facts about the service user, sometimes beyond what is required for identification or minimum verification of credentials Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


This paper does not make assumptions about the veracity of any facts about persons that may appear in personal records, nor about its usability to support service delivery to that service user. This paper also doesn t discuss what legal requirements would apply to the service provider or the identity provider with regard to the handling of these personal data In the rest of this paper we will purely focus on the interaction patterns between different identity providers, where one of them is trusted by the service user, the other by the service provider, and the identity providers are subject to legislation in different Member States. We will also not consider the degenerate case when the service user and the service provider use a common identity provider, as this case is assumed to be solved within the national context of the identity provider  4. Homogeneous Interoperability  We will now explore the complications that must be overcome in order enable cross-border service access. In our simplified model it is assumed that in each Member State a trust relation exists between the service user and an identity provider in that Member State, as well as another trust relation between the service provider and an identity provider in the other Member State. Each trust relation represents a business contract based on the applicable local legislation. As a consequence, cross-border service delivery requires the collaboration \(interworking\ of two different identity providers In this section we will discuss the situation when both identity providers operate under the same model either blue or green\. We have called this homogeneous interoperability. In the next section we will then discuss interoperability between identity providers operating under different models, which we called heterogeneous interoperability   4.1 Homogeneous interoperability between identity providers in the blue model  In this section we will first discuss interoperability between identity providers both operating under the blue model. A simplified interoperability scheme for the blue model is shown in Figure 4    Semantic gateway User trust domain blue Provider trust domain blue 1 Claim Service 2 Authenticate 3 Request Service 4 Transposed Service Claim 5 Transposed Service Request 6 Ask Credentials 7 Request identity validation 8 Update Credentials 9 Provide Credentials 10 Deliver Service Service user Identity provider Service provider 1 5 3 Identity provider 6 7 8 9 10 Semantic service request mapping 4 2  Figure 4 Cross border identity provision between blue environments  In essence the interaction between the service user and the identity provider in the source country is unchanged; authentication of the service provider takes place before the service request is forwarded; also the interaction between the identity provider in the target country and the service provider is unchanged. Added is an interaction pattern between the identity providers in both Member States As both identity providers assume the same semantics about the identity concept the exchange of credential updates  \(step 7 and 8\ may not necessarily require semantic conversion. Alternatively interaction 7 and 8\ay need to be routed via the semantic gateway. By having the service request \(step 3\ be semantically converted into a service claim \(step 4 behavior and business rules to be applied by the identity providers in both Member States are unaffected. A so-called semantic gateway [19 is capable to do that job. This semantic gateway mimics a generic service provider to th e identity provider that is trusted by the service user, and mimics a generic service user to the identity provider that is trusted by the service provider. In addition it maps the requested service to the corresponding service at the service provider. As both identity providers use the same identity concept and implement compatible or even identical business processes to support service provision, the semantic transformations can be on a message basis and only depend on generic metadata of the service users and the service providers  4.2 Homogeneous interoperability according to the green paradigm We now consider the case of interoperability between identity providers when both operate according to the green model. In Figure 5 a similarly simplified interoperability scheme for the green model Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


is shown. Again the interaction between the service user and the identity provider in the source country is unchanged; authentication takes place after the identity provider has been requested to endorse the claimed credentials; also the interaction between the identity provider in the target country and the service provider as well as the interaction between the service uses and the service provider is unchanged. Added is an interaction pattern between the identity providers in both Member States The semantic gateway must be involved in the original service request \(step 1,2\ order to create a context for credential mapping. Step 3, 7 and 9 also may have to be routed through the semantic gateway in order to map between different service contexts in both Member States. As in the blue scenario a semantic gateway may do the translation job, but this would be a totally differently configured semantic gateway as in the blue case  Semantic gateway Provider trust domain green User trust Domain green Identity provider Service user 1 Service provider Identity provider 4 5 1 Request Service 2 Transposed Service Request 3 Ask Credentials 4 Authorize Exposure 5 Provide Credentials 6 Transposed exposure authorization 7 Request credential update 8 Authenticate 9 Update credentials 10 Provide credentials 11 Deliver Service Semantic transposition of request and credentials 3 9 7 6 10 11 8  Figure 5 Cross border identity provision between green environments  Like in the blue model both identity providers use the same identity concept and implement compatible or even identical business processes to support service provision, the semantic transformations can be on a message basis and only depend on generic metadata of the service users and the service providers  5. Heterogeneous Interoperability  In this section we will explore the situation of interoperability between identity providers operating under different paradigms, ie one operating under the green model, and the other operating under the blue model  5.1  Interaction cases From the description of the homogeneous interoperability cases it is clear that interoperability between a green and a blue environment is significantly more complex. On the service user side the interaction pattern and the role of the identity provider must be maintained in accordance with either the blue or the green model, whereas on the service provider side the interaction and role of identity provider according to the other model must be mimicked. In particular the moment that authentication is required becomes more complex This situation of dissimilar business processes has been described befo d requ ires  th e intermediacy of a so-called procedural gateway We have two cases: a blue service user accessing a service from a green service provider, or a green service user accessing a service from a blue service provider. In both cases a conversion of business process \(as apparent from the interaction pattern\ in combination with semantic matching of data from the identity record is required. A semantic gateway cannot interfere with the business process, by definition, therefore a procedural gateway is required In the case of a blue user accessing a green service provider the procedural gateway must emulate a green user mapped to a blue identity provider to the green world and a blue service provider mapped to a green service provider to the blue world. The blue user is requested to authenticate prior to forwarding of a service request, and the procedural gateway must store the service user s credentials until in a later process stage the green service provider needs it In the case of a green user accessing a blue service provider, the procedural gateway must simulate a blue user to the blue identity provider and a green service provider to the green world. In this case the procedural gateway must store the potentially mapped\ervice claim until authentication has taken place by the identity provider in the blue service domain  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


5.2  Discussion The STORK project aims to be a generic solution for all cross-border e-Identity requirements. As shown in this paper four different cases exist, two of which are dependent on the implementation of a semantic gateway and two others on a procedural gateway as well as a semantic gateway. As the procedural gateway is a technical novelty, it is not proven that it can be built, and more precisely that it can be built within the allotted budget and timeframe of the STORK project Further complications arise when stepping back and considering the real environment. In reality individual service users access many different service providers in multiple Member States to obtain a variety of services. In our models we have disregarded the possibility of \(back-office interaction among service providers, in particular when this interaction involves personal records of the service user. An example of this would be the registration of a marriage between citizens of a blue and a green Member State in either a green or blue country. In a homogeneous blue or green environment this situation does not require any special consideration beyond what would be applicable within a single country operating that model, but in a mixed blue and green environment it does When collaboration between a blue and a green service provider happens, green service providers can be fed with blue identity records of green service users. This results in facts being exposed to the green service provider that would not have been exposed in a homogeneous green environment, and thus compromises the privacy of the green service user and since green service providers are not generally used to protect user data they generally don t get green identity providers become a more likely target of identity related crime, making the green service user more vulnerable to identity fraud Conversely, blue service providers can be fed with green identity records about blue service users Generally blue service providers cannot recognize these records as belonging to the same blue service user and therefore must assume it to be a different service user, or take the risk to merge service data from different users. In both cases this may result in inconsistent, duplicated or even erroneous service delivery, and in both cases legislation may be violated if single delivery of the service is mandatory An example of this is the delivery of digital tachograph card  to a truck driver  6. Directions to solve semantic identity mismatches  From our discussion about interaction patterns between service providers operating across blue and green models, it follows that the political requirement to achieve Pan-European e-Identity interoperability goes beyond what can be done with just ICT solutions. An obvious political way out of the conflicting requirements of the blue and the green model is that all stakeholders agree to adopt either the green or the blue model as the national standard model. We believe that this is not going to happen Both green and blue Member States already have too deeply invested in legislation and technology  to accept conversion either from green to blue or from blue to green. In many cases citizens already possess digital assets, either in conformance with the green or the blue paradigm, and many third parties already hold digital records with personal data implemented in conformance with either blue or green legislation. Our conclusion is that we either find a technical solution between green and blue identity models, or we embark on a degraded alternative A generic and broadly acceptable, technically feasible interoperability solution between green and blue environments requires the development and deployment of a procedural gateway as well as further elaboration. As, in view of the before mentioned complications, this can be impeded by legislative barriers, some degraded solutions can be implemented that avoid the complexities of the crossenvironment solutions described in section 5, at least for an interim period These interim solutions suppose the parallel development and deployment of two Pan-European e-Identity spaces that cover the blue and green Member States, respectively, but put the burden of the incompatibilities between the green and the blue environments outside the domain of ICT interoperability solutions, into the domain of the stakeholders. So far we have identified three different types of stakeholder who can be burdened with the interoperability conflicts between green and blue environments 1  The service user can be targeted as a potential contributor to an interim solution 2  The service provider can de targeted as a potential contributor to an interim solution 3  The government in its role as legislator can be burdened with the interoperability problems Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


This approach transforms the cross-border interoperability case into two parallel homogeneous interoperability cases as described in section 4 \(both blue and green  6.1. Dual identity provision for service users The basic idea of the first solution is that a blue and a green interoperability world do coexist. Several Member States already are committed to either the blue or the green model. Ultimately, each Member State either implements the blue or the green model and the associated homogeneous interoperability solution as described in Figure 4 or Figure 5 respectively. In addition, service users, that require the use of services from the other domain will be allowed to have a dual identity, independently managed by himself \(for his green identity\ and an identity provider in a blue country. This requires legal provisions for service users from green Member States to acquire a second blue identity from any blue Member State, as well as being enrolled in all kinds of e-Identity support programs. It may also require legal provisions to be allowed to use self managed identities provided by a green country to users in blue countries The scope of this dual identity provision needs further study but could well include the consequence of providing dual \(electronically readable / writable identity documents, \(e.g. passports 3 tokens and or administrative provisions. Administratively these service users would be duplicated, with one instance managed in a blue Member State and the other instance self managed from a green Member State The acceptability of this solution will decrease as the number of service users benefiting from this approach increase. This can be easily understood by considering that from a statistical point of view the service user himself is the only one that knows the difference between himself as a service user with dual identities in green, resp. blue environment and two independent service users that only operate in either green and blue Member States, respectively Providing selectively a dual identity thus creates a semantic aggregation conflict between users and their identity records. This conflict should be kept limited to a marginal problem. Whereas the deployment cost of this solution is relatively low, the indirect costs can potentially explode when usage grows beyond a negligible percentage   3  Of course the booklet does not have to be duplicated, but all machine readable digital identity records, e.g. embedded RFIDchip would have to be implemented in a green and a blue version It is very unlikely that green and blue identity records completely can be implemented using a single common standard only   6.2. Dual identity handling by service providers Instead of administratively duplicating the service user a duplicated service provider interface could be implemented. Each Member State  would implement dual versions  of each relevant service that would need to be accessed by either service users from blue and green Member States, respectively The problem with this solution approach is that it highly depends on the nature of the service what the impact is of this approach. In a minimal case, where the service itself does not involve any personalized information of the service user, for example, when the only identification objective is to let the user pay for the service, it can be adequate to just have a duplicated service portal for green and blue environments, respectively, whereas the service behind the portal is shared. But in other cases, that more deeply involve service user identity related activities, several other components of the service may need to be duplicated. In the worst case the entire service has to be duplicated, and back-end integration between the two service versions is necessary The problem is that this kind of solution depends on the degree of duplication required. In a minimum scenario \(only duplicate service portals\ a small additional cost for implementing and maintaining a separate portal for service users of the other color is the only consequence. In the other extreme, services may have to be re-engineered in order to be able to support dual blue and green identity management schemes. In contrast with the dual identity approach this approach is more feasible when a significant number of cross over service users needs to be accommodated A second type of problem that can occur is the risk of unavoidable semantic integrity conflicts, in particular when a fraudulent scheme could be setup using \(fake\al identities from green and blue Member States. For each individual service a careful analysis is required before a duplication for green and blue environments can be implemented The cost profile of this solution is characterized by a high initial cost, that scales linearly with the services being provided, and running costs after deployment that are relatively small, and not dependent on scale  6.3. Ignoring the semantic conflict with backup in legislation A third way to address the conflicting blue and green identity management scheme is by technically Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


ignoring it, and providing backup by legislation. In this case parallel green and blue e-Identity spaces would exist which are unconnected in the virtual world. The only bridging would be in the real world This would work as follows 1  Legislation will be implemented that defines that in all circumstances service users from a green Member State are protected by green legislation, also when obtaining services from a blue service provider 2  Similar legislation will be implemented that defines that in all circumstances service users from a blue Member State are protected by blue legislation, even when obtaining green services 3  The service providers technically implement a blue or green solution in line with their national policies and legislation, and are prepared to handle manual corrections whenever issues arise with a service user from a Member State of the other color  Like in the first case, this approach can only be acceptable when it applies to a limited number of cross-color cases. Even when only a few percent of service users obtain services from a cross-color service provider, we may assume that even then the majority of cases does not raise issues The complexity of this approach is that a sufficiently homogeneous legislation within both the group of blue Member States and within the group of green Member States is assumed. In detail this assumption is not entirely correct, and therefore implementation of this approach is likely to require complex and time consuming negotiations both in the group of blue and the group of green Member States An overview of the main advantages and disadvantages of the proposed solutions are summarized in Table 1 The research program of the STORK project will make a more in depth assessment of these strengths and weaknesses of each approach  Table 1 Overview of Evaluation criteria of Procedural Solutions Evaluation criteria Dual identity Dual provision Legal cover Legislative overhead Only initial Only initial Both initial and continuous Scalability Restricted to low volume Yes Restricted to low volume Dual passports, tokens etc Probably required Not necessary Not necessary Service independence Yes No Yes Fraud vulnerability Service independant potentially low Service dependant potentially high Service independant potentially high Demographic pollution Yes No No Service integrity Not impacted Service dependant Service dependant   7. Conclusions and research directions  The STORK project aims at implementing an EU wide interoperable system for recognition of eID and authentication that will enable businesses, citizens and government employees to use their national electronic identities in any Member State. It will also pilot cross-border e-Govern ment identity services and learn from practice on how to roll out such services and to experience what benefits and challenges an EU wide interoperability system for recognition of eID will bring The STORK interoperable solution for electronic identity \(eID\will be based on a distributed architecture that will pave the way towards full integration of EU e-Services while taking into account specifications and infrastructures currently existing in EU Member States. The solution provided is intended to be robust, transparent, safe to use and scalable, and should be implemented in such a way that it is sustainable beyond the life of the pilot The  STORK project will   Develop common rules and specifications to assist mutual recognition of eIDs across national borders   Test, in real life environments, secure and easy-to-use eID solutions for citizens and businesses   Interact with other EU initiatives to maximize the usefulness of eID services Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


It will do so by preparing for and implementing several pilots with services that will have significant potential impact and are adequately secure, by making use of open standards where possible and respecting with data protection regulations. The pilots will test the common specification on eID for several applications that have a substantial impact on eGovernment across Europe The interoperability solutions discussed in this paper will be used as templates for real implementation  8. References   1  SEC \(2006\511, i2010 eGovernment Action Plan Accelerating eGovernment in Europe for the Benefit of All http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=25286   2 I D A B C W o r k P r og r a m m e 20052 0 0 9  Third Revision http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=25302    Ha ns G r a u x  Ja rk k o Ma ja v a e I D Inte rope ra b ility f o r Pan-European eGovernment Services, 2007 http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/6484/5938    J  W itte rs e t a l  IDA BC study on sta k e holde r requirements, 2004 h ttp://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=19649     For a n ov e r v i e w b y c ountry s e e   http://www.epractice.eu/factsheets  Renee Shuey and Ann West,Educause Review Volume 41, Number 5, September/October 2006    Ev olu tio n i n c r os s b o rde r i n te r ope ra bili ty of  eSignaturesand eID \(Tarvi Martens - Certification Centre Estonia http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=30242    C hris J  M itc he ll a n d A ndre a s  Pa s h a lidis A T a x onom y  of Single Sign-On Systems,  Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, Surrey, TW20 0EX, United Kingdom http://www.isg.rhul.ac.uk    DG W Birc h, J Ellio tt, NA Mc Ev o y  Digital Identity Management: Perspectives on the technological, business and social implications 2007 Gower Publishing, Ltd   Ole W a e v e r Ide ntity Inte g ra tion a n d Se c u r ity Solv ing  the Sovereignty Puzzle in E.U. Studies Journal of International Affairs, Vol. 48, 1995  10 A Carzan iga D Evan s C W a n g  A L  W o lf    Security issues and requirements for Internet-scale publishsubscribe systems, System Sciences, 2002. HICSS Proceedings of the 35t h Annual HICSS, 2002 http://ieeexplore.ieee.org      e org e P  Co pe la nd Se tra g N  K hos ha f i a n  Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation  Volume 21 ,  Issue 11  \(November 1986\ , Proceedings of the 1986 conference on Object-oriented programming systems, languages, and applications , 1986 ISSN:0362-1340    M S n e d d o n  L e g isla tion to f a c ilita te e l e c tronic  signatures and records: Exceptions, standards and the impact of the Statute Book" ; University of New South Wales Law Journal, 1998   A H a y a t, A P a n Eur ope a n I n te r ope ra ble Ele c t ro nic  Identity Management System; Academic dissertation, 2007 http://iaik.tu-graz.ac.at    A r nol d V a n Ov e r e e m V a ssilio s P e riste r a s Jo ha n Witters, An Interope rability Framework for Pan-European E-Government Services \(PEGS\System Sciences,  2007 HICSS 2007. 40th Annual HICSS, 2007   R Klisc h e w sk i - Ele c tronic G o v e rn m e nt: T h ird International Conference, EGOV, 2004 - Springer and http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/3473    a re tti e t a l  Dra f t doc um e n t a s ba sis f o r EIF 2.0   2008 http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=31508   17 T i m Bern ersL ee  A n at t e m p t t o gi ve a h i gh l evel p l an  of the architecture of the Semantic WWW, September 1998  18 Bern ers-L ee T i m  Ja mes Hen d l er an d Ora L a ssila The Semantic Web". Scientific American Magazine, 2001    M. B i l lie t, S  B o nom i, E. v a n d e r G r aaf E Kirgiannakis, N. Loutas, A. van Overeem, V. Peristeras, K Tarabanis, J. Witters, Business, semantic and technical requirements analysis for semantic e-Government services at the national and pan-European level; Report funded by the European Commission within the INFORMATION SOCIETY TECHNOLOGIES \(IST\ Programme \(2006 http://www.semantic-gov.org    A C E v a n Ov e r e e m a nd J W itte rs, A r c h ite c t ure f o r European e-Government services , 2004 http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=18944   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Information content is improved by identifying key target characteristics such as turning ratio threat level and mul titarget separation Increasing information content while d ecreasing bandwidth is the goal of the Boeing Intelligent Gat eway BIG being developed BIG is an intelligent gateway that uses a highly parallel state machine to implement a set o f distributed services such as intelligent data association for improving the quality of information with reduced bandwidth R EFERENCES 1 S  S  B l a c k m a n   M u l t i p l e t a r g e t t r a c k i n g w i t h r a d a r a p plications in Artech House  1986 pp 357–395 2 P  K  B  S  Y  C h u m m u n M  R   K i r u b a r a j a n T    F a s t data association using multidimensional assignment with clustering in IEEE trans On Aerospace and Electronic Systems  Vol 37 No 3 2001 pp 898–912 3 S  T  K  P  T c h a m o v a A   D e z e r t J    T a r g e t t r a c k i n g w i t h generalized data assocoation based on the general dsm rule of combinaton in Proceedings of Fusion 2004  Stockholm Sweden 4 M  L o o k s  A  L e v i n e  G  A  C o v i n g t o n  R  P  L o u i  J W Lockwood and Y H Cho Streaming hierarchical clustering for concept mining in Aerospace Conference AERO  Mar 2007 pp 1–12 5 R  D u d a a n d P  H a r t  Pattern Classication and Scene Analysis  John Wiley and Sons Mar 1973 6 M  E s t l i c k  M  L e e s e r  J  T h e i l e r  a n d J  J  S z y m a n s k i  Algorithmic transformations in the implementation of kmeans clustering on recongurable hardware in FPGA  2001 pp 103–110 Online  A v a i l a b l e  citeseer.ist.psu.edu/estlick01algorithmic.html 7 M  L e e s e r  J  T h e i l e r  M  E s t l i c k  N  K i t a r y e v a  and J Szymanski Effect of data truncation in an implementation of pixel clustering on a custom computing machine 2000 Online  A v a i l a b l e  citeseer.ist.psu.edu/leeser00effect.html 8 G  A  C o v i n g t o n  C  L  C o m s t o c k  A  A  L e v i n e  J  W  Lockwood and Y H Cho High speed document clustering in reconigurable hardware in 16th Annual Conference on Field Programmable Logic and Applications FPL  Madrid Spain Aug 2006 pp 411–417 9 A  N g  M  J o r d a n  a n d Y  W e i s s   O n s p e c t r a l clustering Analysis and an algorithm 2001 Online  Available citeseer.ist.psu.edu/ng01spectral.html 10 C  E  S H A N N O N   C o m m u n i c a t i o n i n t h e p r e s e n c e o f noise in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE VOL 86 NO 2  1998 pp 447–457 11 J  W  L o c k w o o d  N  M c K e o w n  G  W a t s o n  G  G i b b  P Hartke J Naous R Raghuraman and J Luo Netfpga an open platform for gigabit-rate network switching and routing in International Conference on Microelectronic Systems Education  2007 12 J  L u o  J  P e t t i t  M  C a s a d o  J  L o c k w o o d  a n d N  M c K eown Prototyping fast simple secure switches for ethane in Hot Interconnects  Stanford CA Aug 2007 13 N  D u k k i p a t i  G  G i b b  N  M c K e o w n  a n d J  Z h u  Building a rcp rate control protocol test network in Hot Interconnects  Stanford CA Aug 2007 pp 91–98 B IOGRAPHY John Meier is a Boeing Technical Fellow in the Network Centric Thrust at Phantom Works NCO Thrust He has over 27 years of professional experience in avionic technology development specically working in the area of intelligent networking recongurable computing architectures and wireless network management At Boeing he is currently involved with several key technical activities including a major project on edge computing and intelligent distributed system management Mr Meier earned his BS from Southern Illinois University Carbondale SIU-C MS University of Missouri Rolla UMR and currently working on his PhD degrees from the Department Computer Science Engineering CSE at the Washington University in St Louis He is a member of IEEE and Tau Beta Pi Todd Sproull is a Doctoral Candidate pursuing his DSc in Computer Engineering at Washington University in Saint Louis He is a Research Assistant and member of the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University His interests include peer-to-peer overlay networks recongurable computing and network security He has worked in the industry at Xilinx Research Labs Network Physics and IBM He earned a BS degree in Electrical Engineering at Southern Illinois Univ ersity in Edwardsville and an MS in Computer Engineering at Washington University He is a member of IEEE Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu G Adam Covington is a Research Associate of the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University in St Louis Adam's research interests include recongurable systems articial intelligence clustering and classication and applications of articial intelligence algorithms Upon completing a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Engineering in 2003 Adam earned his Masters of Science degree in Computer Science and Engineering from Washington University in December of 2006 He is currently visiting Stanford to implement data clustering on the NetFPGA platform and help assemble NetFPGA test systems 11 


John W Lockwood designs and implements networking systems in recongurable hardware During 2007 he served as a Visiting Associate Professor at Stanford University to manage the Alpha and Beta releases of the NetFPGA Prior to working at Stanford he led the the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University The RNG research group developed the Field programmable Port Extender FPX to enable rapid prototype of extensible network modules in Fie ld Programmable Gate Array FPGA technology As an Associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Washington University in Saint Louis He has published over 75 full-length papers in journals and major technical conferences that describe technologies for prov iding extensible network services in wireless LANs and in high speed networks Professor Lockwood has served as the principal investigator on grants from the National Science Foun dation Xilinx Altera Nortel Networks Rockwell Collins  and Boeing He has worked in industry for AT&T Bell Laboratories IBM Science Applications International Corpo ration SAIC and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications NCSA He served as a co-founder of Global Velocity a networking startup company focused on high-speed data security Dr Lockwood earned his MS BS and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois He is a member of IEEE ACM Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu 12 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


