U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright  1 MAVEN Information Securi ty Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance GRC\ssons Learned Eduardo Takamura, Carlos Gomez-Ro sa, Kevin Mangum, Fran Wasiak NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt, MD USA Abstract 227As the first interplanetary mission managed by the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, the Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN \(MAVEN\ had three IT security goals for its ground system:  COMPLIANCE, \(IT\K REDUCTION, and COST REDUCTION.  In a multiorganizational environment in which government, industry and academia work together in support of the ground system and mission operations, information security governance, risk 
management, and compliance \(GRC\ becomes a challenge as each component of the ground system has and follows its own set of IT security requirements.  These requirements are not necessarily the same or even similar to each other\222s, making the auditing of the ground system security a challenging feat A combination of standards-based information security management based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology \(NIST\ Risk Management Framework \(RMF\, due diligence by the Mission\222s leadership, and effective collaboration among all elements of the ground system enabled MAVEN to successfully meet NASA\222s requirements for IT security, and therefore meet Federal Information Security Management Act \(FISMA\mandate on the Agency 
Throughout the implementation of GRC on MAVEN during the early stages of the mission development, the Project faced many challenges some of which have been identified in this paper.  The purpose of this paper is to document these challenges, and provide a brief analysis of the lessons MAVEN learned.  The historical information documented herein derived from an internal pre-launch lessons learned analysis can be used by current and future missions and organizations implementing and auditing GRC  Keywords\227IT security, inform ation security, information security management, cyber security, FISMA, risk, risk management, compliance, regulations, governance, GRC 
T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  F EDERAL I NFORMATION S YSTEM S ECURITY M ANAGEMENT AND S UPPORT 1  3  M ISSION O VERVIEW 2  4  C HALLENGES   R OOT C AUSES   C ONSEQUENCES   R ESOLUTIONS   O PPORTUNITIES 
FOR I MPROVEMENT 4  5  C ONCLUSION 10  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS 11  R EFERENCES 11  B IOGRAPHIES 12  This paper was sponsored by NASA\222s Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN \(MAVEN\ Project based at Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, MD 1  I NTRODUCTION   One of the main drivers for deploying Information Technology \(IT\ products and services within an organization is to automate business processes.  Whether 
information technology is used to process and store vast amounts of data, to facilitate the exchange of information internally and externally, or to contribute to one\222s knowledge, IT enables the business.  Ground systems rely on information systems to support mission operations Mission Operation Centers \(MOCs\d Mission Support Areas \(MSAs\ are equipped with systems \(hardware and software\nd networks that assist in spacecraft command and control; data processing and storage; science and engineering data analysis; etc.  Regardless of the cost of the mission, these information systems must provide assurance that the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the mission\222s information are protected.  Governing laws and regulations exist to ensure this protection is applied to federal information systems such as those supporting NASA 
missions.  NASA\222s Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN \(MAVEN\ission successfully met information system security mandates, although not without encountering certain challenges along the way.  Some of these challenges along with identified root causes, potential impact if not addressed, and resulting mitigating strategies are documented in this paper.  The intent is to share some of the lessons learned from this compliance-seeking journey with individuals and organizations responsible for implementing similar or identical GRC strategies.  While each mission/organization is unique, some of the challenges they face are commonplace, especially as budgets are trimmed down, and how information technology \(IT\d information security \(IS\nfortunately, often seen as both expensive and expendable.  By considering some of the 
lessons from MAVEN\222s implementation and auditing of information security governance, risk management, and compliance, individuals and organizations in like environments could potentially prevent similar barriers towards meeting their GRC goals   2  F EDERAL I NFORMATION S YSTEM S ECURITY M ANAGEMENT AND S UPPORT   Every U.S. federal government agency, whether civilian or military, is required to meet the minimum information security requirements established by the Office of 


    2 Management and Budget \(OMB\n Circular A-130 Appendix III Security of Federal Automated Information Resources  A g e n cies li ke NA S A are requ ired by th e  Federal Information Security Management Act \(FISMA\to effectively manage IT security risks following guidelines set by the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST\.  While the model for managing risks is deemed by many to be outdated and ineffective, it is still the current federal government methodology for securing and managing the security of its information systems 1 The basis of this methodology is the NIST Risk Management Framework RMF i g n e d to h e lp f e deral a g en cie s an d  organizations implement a security program focusing on technical, operational and management security controls Together, these controls form layers of security protecting the information system NASA information systems \226 including mission operations and contractor-operated systems \226 must be protected to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and resources.  By implementing and auditing governance risk management, and compliance \(GRC\ on MAVEN\222s ground systems, the Project ensured that the above requirement for protecting NASA information systems is met.  NIST defines governance as \223the set of responsibilities and practices exercised by those responsible for an organization \(e.g., the board of directors and executive management in a corporation, the head of a federal agency with the express goal of:  \(i\ providing strategic direction ii\suring that the organizational mission and business objectives are achieved; \(iii\certaining that risks are managed appropriately; and \(iv\erifying that the organization\222s resources are used responsibly. [3 224  Information security governance, specifically, is defined as 223the process of establishing and maintaining a framework and supporting management structure and processes to provide assurance that information security strategies are aligned with and support business objectives, are consistent with applicable laws and regulations through adherence to policies and internal controls, and provide alignment of responsibility, all in an effort to manage risk. [4 h is ris k  pertains to information security risks due to vulnerability/exposures in IT systems \(hardware and software\with the potential to incur risks to other areas such as project schedule and cost.  Risk management, on the other hand, is \223a comprehensive process that requires organizations to:  \(i\frame risk \(i.e., establish the context ii\assess risk; \(iii\ond to risk once determined; and \(iv\ monitor risk on an ongoing basis using effective organizational communications and a feedback loop for continuous improvement in the riskrelated activities of organizations.[5 224 T h e Merriam Webster dictionary defines compliance as \223conformity in fulfilling official requirements. [6 A VE N\222s o f f i c i a l    1 At the time of writing of this paper requirement for IT security was simple:  To meet NASA\222s requirements for IT security.  The verification of this level 3 requirement was based on a successful Assessment and Authorization \(A&A 2 of the ground system This paper covers mission ground systems supporting mission operations.  Administrative and development systems, Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition SCADA\stems, infrastructure elements, and nonmission information systems are outside of the scope of the Mission\222s IT security efforts, and therefore outside of the scope of this paper.  The terms Information Security \(IS and Information Technology \(IT\rity are used interchangeably throughout this paper The information specific to MAVEN presented here has been reviewed and approved for public release by the MAVEN Information System Owner \(ISO\d Information System Security Official \(ISSO\nally, there is no Controlled Unclassified Information \(CUI\, no Sensitive But Unclassified \(SBU\nformation, no export controlled information per the International Traffic in Arms Regulations \(ITAR\r any information in this paper that could potentially put the Mission at risk   3  M ISSION O VERVIEW   The Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN \(MAVEN mission is the first interplanetary mission managed by NASA\222s Goddard Space Flight Center \(GSFC 3 home of the \223largest organization 4 of scientists and engineers dedicated to learning and shari ng their knowledge of Earth the Sun, the solar systems, and the univers oddar d i s  also providing two of the science instruments onboard the Lockheed Martin-built spacecr aft.  \223MAVEN will be the first spacecraft mission dedicated to exploring the upper atmosphere of Mars w i ll s t u d y t h e n a t u re of t h e red planet\222s upper atmosphere, how solar activity contributes to atmospheric loss, and the role that escape of gas from the atmosphere to space has played through time.\224  This Mars Scout Program mission is led by Principal Investigator \(PI Dr. Bruce Jakosky from the University of Colorado which in addition to building some of the instruments, is responsible for the science operations as well as for the education and public outreach \(EPO\agement of the program is performed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory 5  which also provides data relay communications, navigation support, and Deep Space Network operations h e   2 NASA\222s equivalent to the FISMA Certification and Accreditation \(C&A process 3 Under the Planetary Science Projects Division \(Code 430\ of the Flight Projects Directorate \(Code 400 4 In the United States 5 Under the Mars Exploration Program 


    3 University of California at Berkeley \(UCB\will provide management for the Particles and Fields \(P&F\ackage and will provide various instruments and components   IT Security Management and Support Approach  The management and support of MAVEN information security was a joint collaboration between the Project Information System Owner \(ISO\d the Project Information System Security Official \(ISSO\isted by IT security support personnel.  The Mission Operations and Ground System Manager took on and held the role and responsibilities of the ISO, while the ISSO role and responsibility was taken and held by a GSFC Flight Projects Directorate \(FPD\ IT/IS Manager whose primary responsibility was to advise the ISO on all matters related to IT security.  In addition to the ISO, ISSO and IT security support teams, the following actors were also identified FPD Subordinate System Officials \(IT Manager, FPD ISSO FPD IT security support personnel\uthorizing Official AO\enter \(GSFC\ Chief Information Security Officer CISO\mong other officials Once the IT security leadership was established, three IT security goals were defined for the MAVEN project as identified in table 1:  COMPLIANCE, \(IT REDUCTION, and COST REDUCTION   Table 1 MAVEN Goals for IT Security COMPLIANCE 200  per NIST Special Publication \(SP\37\d assessing the implementation of the NIST SP 800-53 security controls 200  Document existing compliance status, and where each element is in the security life cycle \(system categorization \226 security control selection \226 control implementation \226 control assessment \226 authorization \226 monitoring 200  Track compliance and non-compliance IT\ RISK REDUCTION 200  Establish communication channel\(s\ between MAVEN Project Management Office \(PMO\ \(via the ISSO\ and the sites/facilities \(IT security points of contact \(POCs 200  Compile and analyze MAVEN project IT security status reports including security metrics 200  Continuously monitor risks to the ground system COST REDUCTION 200  Create an IT Security Working Group comprising of IT security representatives from and knowledgeable about each MAVEN ground system element who can be Goddard MAVEN PMO points of contact for faster knowledge sharing & incident response 200  Use NASA-adopted standards and NASA-approved templates instead of developing new ones from the ground up   MAVEN\222s level 3 requirement for data security stated that the \223MOS/GDS 6 shall ensure the security of its data management system per NASA security document \(NPR 2810.1, latest revision\ASA Procedural Requirement NPR\1 Security of Information Technology is NASA\222s implementation of the NIST RMF, and contains references to individual, theme-specific IT security handbooks \(ITS-HBKs\taining NASA-defined values to guide in the implementation of the security controls per NIST SP 800-53 Recommended Security Controls for   6 Mission Operations System/Ground Data System Federal Information Systems and Organizations The following approach for meeting this requirement was established for the ground system \(covering all of its elements 200  Determine NPR 2810.1A & NIST SP 800-53 compliance across all elements 200  Identify and document existing security control implementation 200  Establish and maintain security baselines  


    4 200  Develop and track Plan of Actions and Milestones POA&Ms\ for mitigating or accepting risks In addition to the above goals, level 3 requirement, and approach, MAVEN set itself the following objective:  To attain an Authorization To Operate \(ATO\rom NASA by at least 6 months prior to launch 7  For each of the identified ground system element, an IT security point of contact \(POC\was designated to participate in and support the MAVEN IT Security Working Group \(ITSWG\The ITSWG, in collaboration with the Network Connectivity Working Group \(NCWG\dentified ground system boundaries based on networks interconnections, jurisdictions, and other considerations Knowing the boundaries of the system was one of the first steps in the inventorying of information pertaining to IT security processes \(e.g., security assessments\res e.g., incident response, contingency planning\, and products \(e.g., system security plans \(SSPs The bulk of the initial IT security work focused on such inventorying.  Every ground system element had to be covered by a security plan. MAVEN IT Security took into account existing signed and current ATOs and SSPs from the various ground system elements.  Based on existing documentation, and through ITSWG bi-weekly meetings interviews, and other means of communication, specific security control implementation was inventoried.  The objective of this initial gathering of security control implementation information, based on NIST SP 800-53 security controls, was to re-d efine requirements, if needed after performing gap and risk analysis over the implementation by each element.  Partial or nonimplementation of security controls may constitute an increase of risk to the overall ground system.  The gap and risk analysis of the collected information was an important step in identifying deviations from the Agency requirements documented in NPR 2810.1A.  From this analysis, a risk rating of low, moderate or high risk was obtained according to impact \(to the element/ground system\. the likelihood of the risk  4  C HALLENGES   R OOT C AUSES   C ONSEQUENCES   R ESOLUTIONS   O PPORTUNITIES FOR I MPROVEMENT    Late Start One of the most important IT security lessons that the Project learned regarding the implementation and auditing   7 Launch window for MAVEN:  November 18, 2013 until December 7 2013 of GRC on MAVEN pertains to requirements.  The project instituted its IT security requirements following its Preliminary Design Review \(PDR\d as such, put the IT security management and support \(ITSM&S\work one major project milestone behind.  Between PDR \(NOV 2010 and the critical design Engineering Peer Review \(EPR SEP 2011\, the Project defined a level 3 \(L3\irement for IT security; developed an approach for managing and supporting IT security based on NPR 2810.1A; and began executing its IT security management plan for the ground system Whether a Project starts late, on-time, or has a head-start in its security work, the GRC implementation and auditing methodology can greatly influence the outcome of the security work.  Another important factor that can contribute to a successful GRC implementation is having the right management and support personnel to champion and carry on the IT security work.  MAVEN\222s System Owner had a gradual, cumulative knowledge of GRC from a previous and related role in support of another federal government organization.  IT security-knowledgeable MAVEN project managers were also involved in and supportive of the GRC implementation work Using a divide-and-conquer approach, the Project established an IT Security Working Group \(ITSWG comprised of IT security representatives from each element of the ground system working together with the MAVEN Information System Security Official \(ISSO Information System Security Engineer \(ISSE\ GRC activities.  Championed by the MAVEN Information System Owner \(ISO\e collaborative work by the ITSWG resulted in a clearer understanding of the ground system boundary; in the identification of system security plans, and in knowledge regarding the implementation of security controls across the ground system Although this approach \226 coupled with experienced ITSM&S personnel \226 promoted an accelerated schedule of IT security activities, the Project still received a Request For Action \(RFA\t its Critical Design Review \(JAN 2012\ a consequence of being one major project milestone behind The RFA was successfully closed, and all IT security activities fully caught up with planned schedule by the NOV 2012 In theory, IT security considerations should be given throughout the mission phases with special emphasis on the initial design and development phases.  The earlier the considerations are given, the higher the probability of a successful security control implementation 


    5  Multi-Organizational Architect ure in Heterogeneous Environment  MAVEN, like most NASA missions, taps the knowledge and expertise of not only its government civil servants and support contractors, but also of its industry and academia partners who play key roles in mission and science operations.  While this \223inter-industry\224 collaboration is welcomed, encouraged and beneficial to all, each \223industry\224 has and follows its own set of security requirements; has different levels of risk tolerance; and \226 as a result \226 exerts disparate, culturally-driven IT security practices.  Because of the heterogeneous nature of the overall project organization, this disparity posed challenges to the implementation and auditing of security controls across the ground system Even within a particular \223industry\224 such as the federal government, there are many departmental silos with their own set of requirements \(standards, processes, etc.\hat may not fit in another department\222s security practices.  In the case of NASA, as an agency, a superset of IT security requirements exist, but meeting such requirements by its field centers, by the directorates \(divisions\within the centers, and by the projects within the directorates can differ substantially.  Also, NASA\222s procedural requirements for information security are only applicable to contractors and external entities to the extent of what is established within their respective contracts Early in the initial/development phase of the MAVEN ground system, the assumption was that all security boundaries would abide to this Agency superset of information security requirements; however, that was not the case.  On the MAVEN ground system, each component or element\ell under either GSFC, JPL 8 or other institutional IT security purview.  While logistically this organization helped the \(project\ management of specific ground system components, the distinct security baselines applied to each security boundary required additional risk reviews to ensure that the standards and processes implemented in one jurisdiction did not open up new risks on another jurisdiction.  That was the case of the MAVEN MSA 9 being under the purview of JPL IT Security while the MAVEN Backup MSA \(bMSA 10 was under GSFC\222s responsibility.  Both had distinct IT security requirements to meet, but both required similar configuration settings due to their relationship with one another \(the bMSA is the MSA\222s alternate command and monitoring site during the critical Mars Orbit Insertion \(MOI\ event\hile the bMSA information systems met NASA\222s requirements, it was   8 Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA, operated by CalTech 9 Located at the Lockheed Martin facility in Littleton, CO 10 Located at Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, MD unknown whether the MSA did.  The MSA is a critical component of the ground system:  It is responsible for MAVEN\222s mission operations; thus, the MAVEN ISO commissioned an internal risk assessment of the MSA by the Mission\222s internal IT security team to verify that appropriate security controls were in place to protect MAVEN\222s command and control \(C&C\nter.  In addition to the extra risk assessment to ensure the security implementation would satisfy the minimum requirements or, if not, if risks could be accepted, agreements between two security boundary officials were documented in the form of an Interconnection Security Agreement \(ISA\ which outlined how each boundary pr otected Mission data both locally and cross boundaries.  ISAs were developed for all external security boundaries exchanging Mission data with internal NASA systems Even though security requirements differed across the ground system, the MAVEN project managed its overall IT risks by identifying them, and taking actions to ensure that the ground system is protected regardless of which security standard and requirement were being followed by a particular ground system element.  The focus was on the criticality of the component with regard to its role within the ground system, as well as on securing loose ends \(the weakest links Current and newer missions should decide whether or not to require all of its components including external entities to follow the Agency\222s superset requirements.  The pros and cons of such directive is outside of the scope of this paper but should the mission decide to enforce, for instance, the Agency\222s requirements and implementation methodology the decision must be authoritative across the entire ground system.  Projects should also engage their Contracting Officers \(COs\ validate applicability of IT security requirements against all contracts 11    Institutional Culture Clash An experienced workforce is one of the greatest assets of a mission. Most NASA missions utilize support personnel who have worked together on previous projects, and so it is not uncommon to find people or teams collaborating on multiple missions, past and present.  This \223re-use\224 of personnel allows for continued team dynamics, but at the same time contributes to the perpetuation of a set of cultural baggage carried on by each team.  While this baggage can bring positive results to the project, it can also impact the understanding and adaptability to project-wide requirements, especially new or even slightly distinct   11 For instance, enforcing IT security requirements as defined by Federal Acquisition Regulation \(FAR\lause 1852.204-76 


    6 requirements pertaining to information security that perhaps have not been addressed before by the teams On MAVEN, this culture clash was visible between GSFCmanaged elements and JPL-managed elements.  Multiple standards, conventions, processes, etc. can be a challenge specifically to auditors who must understand both sets of requirements to figure out if residual risks exist on either jurisdictions.  MAVEN handled this issue by finding a common ground between system boundaries managed by different organizations.  For instance, while JPL does not follow NASA\222s implementation of FISMA \(through NPR 2810.1A\t has in fact adopted the NIST Risk Management Framework \(RMF\which NPR 2810.1A is based on An element cannot impose changes to or deviations from existing information security policies and procedures of another element, but the Mission can establish a projectwide information security \223standard,\224 \223convention,\224 etc that is applicable to most an d preferably all elements.  The challenge is obtaining buy-in from all stakeholders to ensure that any project-wide directive is applicable to most if not all elements, and that it is flexible enough to be molded or adapted by each element.  Very rarely does a one-size-fitsall approach succeed in standardizing security implementation practices, and projects must take into consideration that change often brings resistance from stakeholders.  Being aware of possible culture clash between stakeholders, carefully managing stakeholder expectations and early conflict identification and resolution are advised A culture clash should not be confused with a stakeholder agenda.  ISOs must be aware, understand, accept and exercise his/her roles and responsibilities per NASA policy in order to ensure that this clash of cultures does not negatively impact the \(IT security\ work of the mission ISOs must be empowered to make preemptive risk mitigation/acceptance decisions on behalf of the Authorizing Official \(AO\in order to reduce risks 12 The MAVEN ISO and the MAVEN project leadership in general focused on managing \(IT\sks to the overall ground system rather than on the different elements forming the ground system.  It is true that such cultural differences can negatively impact the \(IT security\work if unacceptable behavior from any party leads to additional risks, especially those related to the non-compliance of information security regulations.  Failure to comply with such regulations can result in risks not only to the project but also to other projects as well as to the entire Agency depending on what is being protected.  In the end, it is the AO who is ultimately responsible for the risks of the project, but the ISO must be proactive in ensuring that the ground system \(IT\ks are documented and tracked, mitigated or accepted \(by the Authorizing Official\d partially mitigated with   12 Note:  AOs will ultimately make the decision for the organization compensating controls whenever feasible if the risks cannot be mitigated   Applicability of IT Security Requirements Knowing to whom the information security requirements are applicable is as important as defining the actual requirements themselves.  Overall, information security requirements define how information and information technology resources must be protected.  If a given requirement is not applicable to a ground system element for instance, then how are resources protected within that element?  The security posture of the mission cannot be assessed if the security posture of one or more component is unknown.  If the requirement for information security on one or more component is non-existent, then the security implementation cannot be audited because if there is no requirement, there is no compliance \223obligation\224 on the part of the component.  The System Owner must ensure that whichever requirement is applicable to this element, that the requirement is defined and meets or exceeds the Project\222s overall requirement.  If the requirement is unknown to the project leadership, then a closer look at how the element has met the requirement\(s\ can enable the project to analyze the risk level at the element The Goddard MAVEN PMO had no initial visibility into the documented JPL IT security requirements covering the MSA and other components.  The previously mentioned internal security assessment of the MSA element provided the MAVEN PMO with the necessary visibility to the security posture of the JPL-managed component.  From this point on, the Project engaged in the risk management process for documenting, mitigating and tracking risks at the MSA Although JPL IT security requirements were not disclosed to the MAVEN PMO prior to MAVEN\222s internal security assessment of the MSA, it is important to note that the JPL IT security team collaborated with the MAVEN IT security team, and provided excellent support before, during and after the internal security assessment of the MSA.  There was one work product in particular that greatly helped with the analysis of the JPL security control implementation:  An internal JPL document mapping the JPL security control implementation to the NIST security controls as documented in NIST SP  800h i s del t a docum e n t  helped translate JPL\222s security control implementation into a workable checklist that could be used against NASA\222s implementation of the NIST security controls.  This reference document provided by JPL facilitated the translation of the requirements by looking at the actual implementation details rather than at the requirement itself The use of standards can be a common denominator when different requirements are in place 


    7 Systems Engineering Approach vs. IT Security Management Approach  The management of federal information system security is based on a specific risk management approach.  This approach is similar to risk management processes in systems engineering & project management, but it is not the same The unfamiliarity of federal information security management processes by certain stakeholders including decision makers across the ground system became a challenge not only to the implementation aspect of GRC but also to GRC auditing.  Similar to the institutional culture clash, each group brings their knowledge and experience to the project.  Because of the risk management similarities between system engineering/project management and \223the FISMA way\224 of conducting risk management, some of the expectations were obfuscated especially with regard to requirements verification The six phases or steps of the NIST Risk Management Framework security life cycle are shown in Figure 1    Figure 1 NIST RMF Securi ty Life Cycle [10   The numbers under each step title \(e.g., FIPS 199 / SP 80060\rrespond to the applicable NIST guidance publication The publications are available for download from the Computer Security Resource Center of the NIST Computer Security Division 13    13  http://csrc.nist.gov/publications  


    Figure 2 depicts the same phases or st e processes with inputs and outputs representation of the RMF provides ano t security life cycle that could facilitate i t from an engineering perspective.  With the first and last steps, the output of one p roce the next process.  This means that each ste p successful completion of the previous step The above risk management process foc u the appropriate level of protection as r information system.  The monitoring part  and should be continuous, is where   Figure 2 8 e ps in terms of This alte r nate t her view of the t s understanding exception of the ss is the input of p depends on the For MAVEN, because most of its had already selected and imple m steps 2 and 3\he Project categorization \(step 1\ part of it s and then focused on steps 4 \(sec u and 5 \(information system authori z requirements were being satisfied the need for implementing addition a enhancements, then steps 2 \(selec t and 3 \(implementation of security u ses on selecting r equired by the  step 6\which is there is closer resemblance with the standard p process in which the risk is i d controlled  Inputs and Outputs to the NIST RMF Processes  ground system elements m ented security controls performed a security s requirements definition u rity control assessment z ation\ to verify that the If a gap analysis showed a l controls and/or control t ion of security controls controls\ere repeated roject risk management d entified  analyzed and 


    9 The auditing work performed on MAVEN was based on the NIST Risk Management Framework which is security control-based.  The technical, operational and management security controls are audited \(verified\hrough security assessments.  This auditing is not a one-time event; the verification of the security control implementation \(and operation\ must be performed frequently.  Continuous Monitoring is an important security process per FISMA; it is almost like an on-going requirement verification in systems engineering terms.  Like safety, ground system security is more of a process or service than a product Security products help automate some of the security processes, but no product can ensure security without appropriate processes in place.  Information assurance is like mission/safety assurance:  It requires constant monitoring and frequent inspections, especially with the ever evolving threat landscape that can pose risks to the Mission\222s information systems Even with a well-defined requirement and a good requirement verification plan, if there is a lack of understanding of the requirement by stakeholders, IT security teams may experience resistance to support IT security activities by stakeholders.  Therefore, it is important to make sure everyone involved understands what the project is expected to comply with, knowing that such understanding is subject to interpretation by stakeholders who will see things from different angles, and respond according to their view of security.  One of the first steps is acknowledging that the IT security management work will follow its own risk management methodology, different than systems engineering\222s, for instance   Heritage Mentality  In product development, having heritage parts/components can be very beneficial, especially if they have been successfully deployed on a previous project/mission.  In information technology and information security; however the term \223heritage\224 is not always good; it can imply obsolescence.  Having heritage teams with knowledge and experience from serving previous missions is excellent provided these teams keep up with current requirements especially with IT security requirements 223We\222ve always done it this way.\224 223We\222ve never had to do it before.\224 223If it ain\222t broke, don\222t fix it.\224 These were some of the stakeholder affirmations that were heard during the planning and development stages of the mission with regard to certain IT security activities.  The resistance to change is expected, but such resistance must be dealt with early in the project\222s initial stages using change management techniques including outreach and security briefings The requirements for IT security change over time.  FISMA was signed in 2002, but it was revamped in 2010.  NASA provided guidance for implementing the 2010 version of FISMA in 2011.  As part of the FISMA requirements, plans and procedures are reviewed annually, and some of the reviewed plans and procedures may contain modifications such as those based on updated organizationally defined values \(ODVs\at dictate how a given security control is implemented.  Like technology management, information security management must keep up with the evolving threats to ensure data and resources are protected against them   Misconception:  IT Security Activities Cease After ORR Upon successful Operational Readiness Review \(ORR MAVEN established and enforced a configuration freeze on both the MSA and the backup MSA.  This meant that no changes to systems were to be made until launch.  These changes included but were not limited to changes to security configuration due to software patching.  Other recurring IT security activities such as system monitoring, risk analysis and reporting, etc. were planned and still expected to be performed.  There was apparent confusion by certain stakeholders regarding the continuation of the security work after the ORR, and one component of the ground system reallocated \(human\ resources that were originally supporting the IT security work to other activities based on an assumption that its IT security commitment ended at ORR Like insurance, information security tasks are often seen as costly and expendable but only until an incident occurs The cost of security incident breaches and clean-up is high and preventive IT security work must continue throughout the mission life.  It does not end after a major project milestone and/or after launch, except of course when the Project reaches its final milestone:  Completion/termination In the case of MAVEN, after the ground system is developed, tested, verified and placed into operations launch and post-launch\, the total number of development Full Time Employees \(FTEs\ decrease but the security processes that have been implemented will continue to be executed throughout the life of the Mission.  The monitoring of network traffic, system usage, resource access attempts hardware and software maintenance, and other activities must continue.  Special attention should be paid to system vulnerabilities due to obsolete software.  The patching of vulnerable software, and the verification that no unacceptable vulnerability exists via credentialed vulnerability scanning are some of the expected tasks to reduce system vulnerabilities, and ultimately maintain or increase the security of the mission\222s information systems 


    10 ISOs must ensure that GRC-related activities continue to be performed according to the organization\222s requirements NASA\222s implementation of a more continuous monitoringcentric approach to security assessment will reduce much of the overhead caused by the documentation-heavy, security snapshot approach that current missions undergo Nonetheless, risk management decisions will continue to be documented, and risk decision makers will continue to be held accountable for their actions \(or lack thereof Stakeholders, in general, are also accountable for security and they are reminded each year by IT security awareness training programs   5  C ONCLUSION   MAVEN is an exciting mission that will enable us to better understand the Red Planet\222s atmosphere, and obtain answers to questions that previous Mars missions did not or could not answer.  The engineering is amazing, and the science work promising, but all the systems engineering and scientific investigations depend on the security of the information systems supporting the ground system and mission operations to ensure that, for instance, mission operations have control of the spacecraft, scientific results are trusted and not skewed \(i.e., does not lack integrity\, and that the Mission in general is not compromised due to a security breach of the ground system.  While the IT security component is miniscule compared to other aspects of the Mission, it plays an important role in information assurance much like safety and mission assurance plays a key role in protecting the Mission The MAVEN IT Security team was not directly responsible for the implementation of the security controls across the ground system, but it assisted the different elements of the ground system ensure that controls were in place; risks were identified and acted upon; and that the Mission complied with NASA\222s requirements for IT security.  Like laws, IT security policies and requirements exist for protection Projects rely on information technology to conduct business Information systems enable the ground system to operate the mission, and their confidentiality, availability and integrity must be protected There is no one-size-fits-all solution for such protection There is no silver bullet, no technology capable of eliminating IT security risks.  That is why risks must be managed so that as vulnerabilities are reduced, the security of the ground system is increased.  Information assurance is as important as mission assurance, and project leadership is expected to use due diligence in managing IT risks.  The championing of the Mission IT security work for MAVEN evolved over time just like the Mission\222s GRC work evolved from a no requirement for IT security at PDR to a fully FISMA compliant ground system at ORR.  The road to MAVEN IT security compliance was not a straight, leveled line; it was rough and at times required the Project to pave the path that had not been cleared before The lessons learned captured in this document are just a concise summary of some of the IT security challenges that the Project faced and dealt with.  This paper does not brag about the successes of MAVEN\222s GRC implementation; to the contrary, it shows how the planning and implementation of GRC were imperfect, and highlights some of the mistakes made during the process.  MAVEN leadership could simply keep this information internal, without disseminating it to the public; instead, the lessons learned by the Project are being shared to the aerospace community so that current and future missions can take these lessons in consideration as they plan and implement GRC.  Each mission/organization is unique, and special considerations must be taken by projects if following the recommendations herein.  While the approach for implementing and auditing GRC will differ from mission to mission, projects/organizations may likely experience similar challenges faced by MAVEN and other NASA missions     


    11 Table 2 Lessons Learned Recapitulation MAVEN is an exciting mission that will enable us to better understand the Red Planet\222s atmosphere, and obtain answers to questions that previous Mars missions did not or could not answer  Lesson #1 START EARLY  Lesson #2 FIND COMMON \(IT SECURITY\ENOMI NATOR IN A DIVERSE ENVIRONMENT  Lesson #3 RESPECT CULTURAL/INSTITUTIONAL DIFFERENCES, BUT DON\222T LET THEM NEGATIVELY INTERFERE WITH THE GRC WORK  Lesson #4 CLEARLY DEFINE IT SECURITY REQUIREMENTS SCOPE  Lesson #5 FOLLOW APPROPRIATE GRC IMPLEMENTATION METHODOLOGY  Lesson #6 HERITAGE CAN BE GOOD AND BAD  Lesson #7 ASSURE CONTINUOUS MONITORING   A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS   IT security management and support can only be successful if the team behind it is back ed by project leadership that understands GRC concepts as well as Agency requirements for IT security.  The MAVEN management team led by Mr David Mitchell and Ms. Sandra Cauffman ensured that the System Owner had the autonomy and the resources to exercise his roles and respons ibilities to protect the ground system.  Without the MAVEN IT Security Working Group ITSWG\upport, the ISSO would not be able to effectively manage and support MAVEN IT security.  Thanks to the current MAVEN ITSWG members:  Don Gritzmacher LASP\, Chris Gersbach \(JPL\man \(LM\im Quinn \(UCB\d to past members and guests:  Gary Ramah \(JPL\athan Loran \(UCB\e Childs \(JPL George Wofford \(designAmerica\hanks to the NASA/GSFC FPD IT/IS management and support team \226 Ms. Cecilia Czarnecki, Mr. Carl Will, Ms. Angela Hess and Ms. Holly Wyrostek \226 and to the JPL/LM team who supported the security assessment of the MAVEN Mission Support Area \(MSA\ Littleton, CO \226 Ms. Sherry Stukes Mr. Robert Miller, Mr. David Greiner, Mr. Michael Griffin Mr. Tom McKenzie, Mr. Mike Haggard, Mr. Wayne Sidney.  Thanks to MAVEN support personnel \226 Ms. Leslie Cusick and Ms. Brittany Lewis \226 for the configuration management and logistical support for some of the IT security work performed.  Finally, big thanks to MAVEN PI Dr. Bruce Jakosky for his vision, commitment, and support   R EFERENCES   1  Appendix III to OMB Circular No. A-130, [onlin  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars_a130_a130ap pendix_iii \(Accessed:  15 November 2013  2  Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative, \223Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems \226 A Security Life Cycle Approach,\224 NIST Special Publication 800-37, February 2010  3  Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative, \223Managing Information Security Risk \226 Organization, Mission, and Information System View,\224 NIST Special Publication 800-39, p. 11, March 2011  4  P. Bowen, J. Hash, M. Wilson, \223Information Security Handbook:  A Guide for Managers \226 Recommendations of the National Institute of Standards and Technology,\224 NIST Special Publication 800-100, p. 11, October 2006  5  Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative, \223Managing Information Security Risk \226 Organization, Mission, and Information System View,\224 NIST Special Publication 800-39, p. 6, March 2011  6  Compliance \226 Definition and More from the Free Merriam-Webster Dictionary, Merriam-Webster \226 an Encyclopaedia Britannica Company, [onlin  http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/compliance Accessed:  25 October 2013  


    12 7  About the Goddard Space Flight Center | NASA, [onlin  http://www.nasa.gov/centers/goddard/about/index.html Accessed:  25 October 2013  8  MAVEN Mission Fact Sheet, FS-2012-9-125-GSFC online, PDF  http://www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/files/MAVENFac tSheet_Final20130610.pdf  9  R. Miller, \223JPL\222s Response to NASA Handbooks,\224 07 January 2013  1  Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative 223Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations,\224 NIST Special Publication 800-53 revision 3, p. 17, August 2009   B IOGRAPHIES   Eduardo Takamura graduated cum laude with a B.S. in Computer Science from Bowie State University \(BSU\ in 1998, a M.S. in Computer Science from the Johns Hopkins University \(JHU\ in 2002, and became a Certified Information System Security Professional \(CISSP\ in 2008 He has been with NASA/GSFC for 15 years having previously served as UNIX/Linux System Administrator for the NASA Minority University-Space Interdisciplinary Network \(MU-SPIN\ education project as well as for the NOAA/NCEP Climate Prediction Center \(CPC\; Alternate Computer Security Official \(ACSO\ for the NASA/GSFC Computational and Information Sciences and Technology Office \(CISTO\; IT Manager for the NASA Sciences and Exploration Data Analysis \(SESDA\ II program; and IT Security Engineer/Auditor for the Landsat Data Continuity Mission \(LDCM\ Mission Operations Element \(MOE\, and NPOESS Preparatory Project \(NPP\.  As an undergraduate student, Eduardo worked on research projects at BSU and at the Georgia Institute of Technology \(Georgia Tech Eduardo is currently serving the Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN \(MAVEN\ mission as Information System Security Official \(ISSO\; the Origins Spectral Interpretation Resource Identification Security Regolith Explorer \(OSIRISREx\ as Information System Security Engineer \(ISSE\; and Space Science Mission Operations \(SSMO\ as Vulnerability Assessment Auditor Kevin Mangum is a 2002 graduate from the University of Maryland University College with a Bachelors of Science Degree in Technology Management.  He has been with the General Dynamics C4S Corporation for 15 years and has supported various missions at NASA/GSFC for over 35 years.  He has supervised system engineering groups for the development of near real time and level zero processing as well as management of operational teams.  He has over 10 years experience within the IT security environment obtaining his Certified Information System Security Professional \(CISSP\ certification from ISC2.  Currently he is supporting the Space Science Mission Operations SSMO\ missions in the role of the Information System Security Official \(ISSO Carlos Gomez-Rosa graduated magna cum laude with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Puerto Rico in 1988 and in 1992 received a M.S. in Science from the Johns Hopkins University. Carlos has been working for NASA Goddard Space Flight Center \(GSFC\ since 1988 His work in IT Security goes back to GFSC's introduction to the Internet and preparations for Year 2000 \(Y2K\ event He was the Information System Owner \(ISO\nd Operations Manager for the Earth Observing System \(EOS Data and Operations System \(EDOS\ from 2000 to 2007 Mission Operations Manager \(MOM\ for the NASA/NOAA GOES-O Mission \(2007-2009\, Deputy/Lead Systems Engineer for the GOES-R Ground Segment \(2009-2011 and MAVEN's Ground System Manager, ISO and MOM since 2011 Francis Wasiak received a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the State University of New York \(SUNY\ at Buffalo in 1989.  His career started in the Mission Operations Directorate at the Johnson Space Center as a Payload Operations Engineer for the Space Shuttle Program.  He has served as an Operations Director for the NASA Shuttle Small Payloads Program and Lead Instrument Operations Engineer for both the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Polar Orbiting Environmental Satellites POES\ program and the NASA Earth Observing System EOS\ Aqua Program.  Currently, Fran is the Lead Ground Segment Engineer for the NASA James Webb Space Telescope \(JWST\ and is the Deputy Mission Operations Manager for the Mars Atmos phere and Volatile EvolutioN MAVEN\ mission.  Fran has authored papers on the topic of JWST Integration and Test for SPIE and SpaceOps conferences 


Track H: Image, Speech, and Signal Processing Symbol Synchronization for a Class of CPFSK Receiver 800 Sapta Girish Neelam An Algorithmic Digital Audio Watermarking in Perceptual Domain Using Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum 805 Naresh Kumar Trivedi and Munesh Chandra Trivedi Sign Language Recognition Using Principal Component Analysis 810 Ankita Saxena, Deepak Kumar Jain, and Ananya Singhal Real Time Fog Removal Technique with Improved Quality through FFT 814 Ashish Saxena and Yogadhar Pandey Hand Gesture Recognition Using an Android Device 819 Ankita Saxena, Deepak Kumar Jain, and Ananya Singhal Fingerprint Segmentation: Optimization of a Filtering Technique with Gabor Filter 823 Vishal Krishna Singh, K.J. Mathai, and Shailendra Singh High Dynamic Range Imaging for Dynamic Scenes 828 Rahul Kumar Chaurasiya and Vishakha Chourasia Skin Lesion Detection of Dermoscopy Images Using Estimate Localization Technique 833 Sookpotharom Supot Subjective Evaluation of Image Color Damage Based on JPEG Compression 838 Xiaoqiang He The Study on Auto Mosaic Technology of Microscopic Image 843 Yunxiao Shan An Approach for Secret Sharing Using Randomised Visual Secret Sharing 847 Shubhra Dixit, Deepak Kumar Jain, and Ankita Saxena Using Self Organized Mapping to Seek Refactorable Code Clone 851 Meng Fanqi Comparison of Sub-band Decomposition and Reconstruction of EEG Signal by Daubechies9 and Symlet9 Wavelet 856 Supriya Shete and Revathi Shriram TOA Estimation with Cross Correlation-Based Music Algorithm for Wireless Location 862 Liang Zhou, Guangjun Li, Zhi Zheng, and Xuemin Yang A Novel Lossy Image Compression Method 866 Nadeem Akhtar, Salman Khan, and Gufran Siddiqui Coherence Analysis of EEG Signal Using Power Spectral Density 871 Sukhada A. Unde and Revati Shriram 
xvii 


Comparison of Color and Color with Edge Feature Extraction Using Contribution-Based Clustering Algorithm 875 Snehal Mahajan and Dharmaraj Patil Issues and Challenges in Content-Based Media Retargeting 881 Ranjit Y. Fule and Deepti P. Theng Vishit: A Visualizer for Hindi Text 886 Priyanka Jain, Hemant Darbari, and Virendrakumar C. Bhavsar Literature Review: Model Free Human Gait Recognition 891 Suvarna Shirke, S.S.Pawar, and Kamal Shah A Fragile ROI-Based Medical Image Watermarking Technique with Tamper Detection and Recovery 896 R. Eswaraiah and E. Sreenivasa Reddy A Conditional Random Field Based Indian Sign Language Recognition System under Complex Background 900 Ananya Choudhury, Anjan Kumar Talukdar, and Kandarpa Kumar Sarma Line Analyzer Techniques for Teeth Using Edge-Based Method and Gray-Based Method 905 Saurabh U. Saoji and Prachi Jaini Hiding the Trace of JPEG Compression History 909 Hong Yang and Zhiping Zhou Resampling Tamper Detection Based on JPEG Double Compression 914 Dan Zhu and Zhiping Zhou A Method for Hand Gesture Recognition 919 Jaya Shukla and Ashutosh Dwivedi Exposing Digital Image Forgeries from Near Duplicate Images 924 Snehal M. Khamankar and M.S. Madankar Image Segmentation Methods: A Survey Approach 929 Amit Singh Chauhan, Sanjay Silakari, and Manish Dixit Computer Vision Based Human-Computer Interaction Using Color Detection Techniques 934 Chetan Dhule and Trupti Nagrare Integrating Rule and Template-Based Approaches to Prosody Generation for Emotional BODO Speech Synthesis 939 Laba Kr. Thakuria, Purnendu Acharjee, Akalpita Das, and P.H. Thakdar A Sentence-Pitch-Contour Model for Indiginous Language \(Galo Quantization \(VQ 944 Akalpita Das, Laba Kr. Thakuria, Purnendu Acharjee, and P.H. Thakdar 
xviii 


Assamese Intonation Modeling for Speech Synthesis 948 Palash Dutta, Laba Kr. Thakuria, Akalpita Das, Purnendu Acharjee and Pranhari Talukdar Track J: Control Systems, Simulation, Power Systems and Optimisation Techniques Power Distribution System Load Flow Using Microsoft Excel 954 M.K.S. Sastry, Randy Roopchand, and Roshan Chhetri Exact Loss Procurement for Distribution Franchisee in the Restructured Environment: To Promote Distribution Franchisee Implementation in India 960 Baidyanath Bag, Tripta Thakur, and Vijae Pande Model Based Experimental Determination of Moisture Content in Oil-Paper Insulation System Using FDS Technique 966 Yogesh Yashwant Pundlik and Pradeep M. Nirgude A Distinct Pseudo-random Carrier Modulation Approach for a Boost Converter 970 Anant Kumar Verma and Gagan Singh Optimal Location and Sizing of SVC for Minimization of Power Loss and Voltage Deviation Using NSGA II 975 Shishir Dixit, Laxmi Srivastava, and Ganga Agnihotri Test Case Generation for Object-Oriented Systems: A Review 981 Rajvir Singh Dynamic Energy and Reserve Dispatch Solutions for Electricity Market with Practical Constraints: Intelligent Computing Technique 990 Aayush Shrivastava, Akanksha Bhatt, Manjaree Pandit, and Hari Mohan Dubey Design and Development of Matlab Toolbox for State Estimation 995 M.K.S. Sastry, Rajiv Ramrattan, and P.V. Balasubrahmanyam A Model Predictive Controller Using Multiple Linear Models for Continuous Stirred Tank Reactor \(CSTR 1001 Vivek Agarwal, Manish Gupta, Umesh Gupta, and Rahul Saraswat Influence of Profile Error on the Bearing Characteristics of Hydrostatic Turntable 1006 Ligang Cai, Pengwei Cui, Yongsheng Zhao, and Changqing Jing Research and Realization of Media Node Method-MNM and Embedding Future Key Method-EFK to Avoid Selective Jamming 1011 Junwei Du, Shuai Ding, and Yan Wan Scheduling Algorithms Based on Resource Fragmentation for Advance Reservation Tasks 1017 Bo Li, Yijian Pei, Hao Wu, Xian Zhao, and Bin Shen 
xix 


Home Energy Audit: A Case Study of Phuentsholing, Bhutan 1022 Roshan Chhetri, Kinley Wangchuk, and M.K.S. Sastry Three Phase Shunt Active Filter Interfacing Renewable Energy Source with Power Grid 1026 S. Dineshkumar and N. Senthilnathan Track K: VLSI Design and Implementation of Digital Design Concepts Thermal Aware Task Scheduling for Embedded Systems 1032 Chanchal Paul, Bijju Kranthi, and Santanu Chattopadhyay Via Minimization for Multi-layer Channel Routing in VLSI Design 1036 Bhaskar Das, Ashim Kumar Mahato, and Ajoy Kumar Mahato Design and Development of CMOS Image Sensor for Motion Detection Localization 1040 Shraddha Moon and Trushna Deotale A Novel PMOS Data Retention Leakage Power Reduction Design 1045 Rohit Lorenzo and Saurabh Chaudhury Networks on Chip: The New Trend of On-Chip Interconnection 1050 Hridoy Jyoti Mahanta, Abhijit Biswas, and Md. Anwar Hussain Investigation of Ternary Function Minimization 1054 Vikram Ghiye, Sharan Bonde, and Ashwinikumar Dhande Implementation of Wireless Sensor Network Using Microblaze and Picoblaze Processors 1059 Seema M. Borawake and P.G. Chilveri Performance and Evaluation of Loopback Virtual Channel Router with Heterogeneous Router for On-Chip Network 1065 Mamta P. Daf and Bharti B. Saynkar A 3.1-10.6 GHz CMOS Two Stage Cascade Topology Low-Noise Amplifier for UWB System 1070 Neelam Gautam, Manish Kumar, and Abhay Chaturvedi Double Balanced Diode Ring Mixer for Ultra-wideband System 1074 Abhay Chaturvedi, Mithilesh Kumar, and R.S. Meena 
xx 


Track L: Machine Learning, Software Modelling and Intelligent Systems Using Virtual Reference Tags to Improve the Accuracy of Active RFID-Based Positioning Systems 1078 Saber Seyyedi, Behzad Akbari, Esmaeil Arab, Iraj Ramezani, and Milad Mahdavi Integrating Machine Learning Techniques to Constitute a Hybrid Security System 1082 Nikita Singh and Nidhi Chandra Development of a Classification System for Quality Evaluation of Oryza Sativa L. \(Rice 1088 Niky K. Jain, S.O. Khanna, and Kavindra R. Jain The Appliance of Affective Computing in Man-Machine Dialogue: Assisting Therapy of Having Autism 1093 Lingling Han and Xiaodong Li The Analysis of Checkpoint Strategies for Large-Scale CFD Simulation in HPC System 1097 Ren Xiaoguang, Xu Xinhai, Tang Yuhua, and Fang Xudong Automation of HR Interview System Using JESS Inference Engine 1102 Kush Kumar, Abhay Kumar, Kumar Abhishek, and D.K. Singh Blue Brain Technology: A Subway to Artificial Intelligence 1106 Swati Sharma, Nitisha Payal, Ankur Kaushik, and Nitin Goel Performance Appraisal of Learning Automata in Networks 1110 Rohit Kumar Das, Banai Das, and Sudipta Roy Digital Circuit Design Using Support Vector Machines 1114 J. Manikandan and V.K. Agrawal Hybrid Multi-level Cache Management Policy 1119 Krupal Chikhale and Urmila Shrawankar DTMF Based Automation System with Reduction of Noise Using Goertzel DFT Estimation 1124 Afshan Mulla, Jaypal Baviskar, and Amol Baviskar Traffic Signal Control Using Reinforcement Learning 1130 Namrata S. Jadhao and Ashish S. Jadhao A Multiobjective Model for Energy Efficient QoS Provisioning Using Genetic Algorithm 1136 Sunita Prasad, Zaheeruddin, and D.K. Lobiyal User and Device Tracking in Private Networks by Correlating Logs: A System for Responsive Forensic Analysis 1142 Swati Chaudhari, Hitendra Chauhan, S.S. Tomar, and Anil Rawat 
xxi 


A Camera Calibration Method for Obstacle Distance Measurement Based on Monocular Vision 1148 Lin Chenchen, Su Fulin, Wang Haitao, and Gao Jianjun A Game-Theoretic View on Objective Function Attack and ITS Defense 1152 Guangsheng Feng, Xiaoyu Zhao, Huiqiang Wang, and Qian Zhao An Efficient Data Integrity Verification and Fault-Tolerant Scheme 1157 Hui Gan and Long Chen Automatic Android GUI Traversal with High Coverage 1161 Peng Wang, Bin Liang, Wei You, Jingzhe Li, and Wenchang Shi Design of Multi-function and Programmable Man-Machine Interface 1167 Yuncai Luan Intelligent Traffic Guidance System Based on Dynamic Toll Collection Policy 1172 Lufei Wang, Peiqi Jiang, Jie Zhong, Liyan Li, Jianbo Zhang, Xingchang Wei and Erping Li Location Prediction in Social Media Based on Contents and Graphs 1177 Dan Xu and Shiqiang Yang Recognizing Chessboard and Positioning Checkboard in Chinese Chess Game System 1182 Huibai Wang and Ming Shi An Approach to Solve Tracking and Message Blocking Problems in RFID 1187 Ajay Kant Singh, Subhaish Dhal, and Indranil Sengupta Author Index 1192 
xxii 


  19  unc e r t a i nt i e s  i n c om pone nt  ge om e t r y  t e s t  c ond itio n s  a n d  he a t  t r a ns f e r  c oe f f i c i e nt  f or m ul a t i ons   M os t  c om pone nt  mo d e l  p r e d i c t i o n s  w e r e  w i t h i n  5   t e s t  d a t a  a n d  w e l l  w i t h i n  ex p er i m en t al  s cat t er   T h e ex p er i m en t al  m eas u r es  o f  en er g y  fl u x e s  fo r  t h e  e n g i n e  r a d i a t o r  s h o w  l a r g e  d i s c r e p a n c i e s   D a t a  sc a t t e r  i s la r g e  a n d  s h o w  im p r e c is e  m e a s u r e m e n ts  Mo r e o v e r   t e s t  d a t a  t r a v e r s e d  o v e r  t h e  l a m i n a r tu r b u le n t tr a n s itio n  r e g io n  f o r  w h ic h  r e lia b le  h e a t tr a n s f e r  c o e f f ic ie n ts  ar e n o t  av ai l ab l e  S i n ce n o  p h as e t r an s i t i o n  p r o ces s  i s  d  th e  te m p e r a tu r e  e r r o r  m e a s u r e m en t s  ar e d i r ect l y  re f l e c t e d  i n  t h e  e n e rg y  f l u x  e s t i m a t e s   Co m p a r e d  t o  t h e  en g i n e r ad i at o r   m eas u r ed  d at a f o r  t h e t r an s ax l e r ad i at o r  i s  mu c h  b e t t e r  b e h a v e d  a n d  e x h i b i t s  mu c h  g r e a t e r  c o n s i s t e n c y   Fi n a l l y   p re c i s e  g e o m e t ri c a l  d e s c ri p t i o n  o f  e a c h  c o m p o n e n t   hi ghl y de s i r a bl e  s i nc e  m a ny of  t he  m ode l e d phys i  pr oc e s s e s  a r e  hi ghl y de pe nde nt  on ge om e t r i c a l  de t a i l s  s uc h as  h eat  ex ch an g er  t u b e i n t er n al  s t r u ct u r e  an d  t u b e l ay o u t     A CK NO W L E DG E M E NT S  Th i s  w o r k  w a s  f u n d e d  t h r o u g h  t h e  S B I R  P h a s e  I I   Co n t r a c t  2009 C 0056 M 09 03 23 t o C om put a t i ona l  Sc i e n c e s   We  t h a n k  o u r  T P O C   M s   M a r y  G o r y c a   f o r  m a n y  us e f ul  c om m e nt s  a nd s ugge s t i ons  dur i ng t he  c our s e  of  t hi s  re s e a rc h  a n d  f o r p ro v i d i n g  i m p o rt a n t  c o o l i n g  s y s t e m  co n f i g u r at i o n  an d  s y s t em  o p er at i o n s  d at a  W e  a ls o  th  fo r  e x t e n d i n g  t h i s  r e s e a r c h  t o  i n c l u d e  h y b r i d  v e h i c l e s   T h i s  ex t en s i o n  r es u l t ed  i n  d ev el o p m en t  o f  a v er y  g en er al  t o o l k i t  wi t h  a  wi d e  r a n g e  o f  t h e r m a l  a n d  o t h e r  a p p l i c a t i o n s    R EF ER EN C ES  1  Pu n t i g a m   W    H o r m a n n   T    Sc h i e r l   K    W i e s l e r   2 0 0 5    Th e r m a l  M a n a g e m e n t  S i m u l a t i o n s  b y  Co u p l i n g  o f  D i f f e r e n t  S o f t w a r e  P a c k a g e s  t o  a  C om pr e he ns i ve  S ys t e m     5 01 2061  2  Ka n d l i k a r  S   1 9 9 7    Pr e d i c t i n g  f l o w  b o i l i n g  h e a t  tr a n s f e r  o f  re f ri g e ra n t s  i n  m i c ro f i n  t u b e s     He a t  T r a n s f e r   4 7 278  3  Ra s m u s s e n  B  e t  a l    2 0 0 2     Co n t r o l  Mo d e l i n g  o f  T r a n s c r i tic a l V a p o r  C o m p r e s s io n  Sy s t e m s    Un i v e r s i t y  o f  I l l i n o i s  AC R C  T R 2 0 4    4   Ju n g  D    a n d  A ssa n i s D  N    2 0 0 6      Mo d e l i n g  o f  C r o s s  F l o w  C o m p a c t  H e a t  E x c h a n g e r  wi t h  Lo u v e r e d  F i n s  u si n g  T h e r m a l  R e si st a n c e  Co n c e p t    SA E  T e c h n i c a l  Pa p e r  2 0 0 6 01 0726    5   I nc r ope r a   F r a nk P    D e W i t t   D a vi d P    2007   Fu n d a m e n t a l s  o f  H e a t  a n d  M a s s  T r a n s f e r  6 t h  e d    Ho b o k e n   W i l e y   p p   4 9 0   5 1 5    6   Y J Ch a n g   Y J a n d  W a n g   C C   A  G e n e r  He a t  t r a n s f e r  C o r r e l a t i o n  f o r  L o u v e r  F i n  Ge o m e t r y    1 9 7 7   In t   J   H e a t  M a s s  T ra n s f e r   40 3 p p 5 3 3 544    7   J   2 0 0 7  H e a t  t r a n s f e r  a n d  p r e s s u r e  d r o p  co r r el at i o n s  f o r  t h e m u l t i lo u v e r e d  f in  c o m p a c t h e a t ex ch an g er s   E n er g y  Co n v e r s i o n  d  M an ag em en t  48 5  1506  1515    8   X D   L i u   S    a n d  As a d a   H H    Mo d e l i n g  o f  Va p o r  C o m p r e s s i o n  C y c l e s  f o r  M u l t i v a r i a b l e  F eed b ack  C o n t r o l  o f  H V A C  S y s t em s    1 9 7 7   Dy n a m i c  S y s t e m s   M e a s u r e m e n t   a n d  C o n t r o l   119 3 191    9   Sh a h  R   e t  a l    2 0 0 3     D yna m i c  M ode l i ng A nd Co n t r o l  o f  S i n g l e  a n d  M u l t i Ev a p o r a t o r  S u b c r i t i c a l  Va p o r  C o m p r e s s i o n  S y s t e m s   U   of  I l l i noi s  A C R C  TR 2 1 6    10   Sh a h   R    R a s m u s s e n   B  P   an d  A l l ey n e  A  G     Ap p l i c a t i o n  o f  a  m u l t i v a r i a b l e  a d a p t i v e  co n t r o l  s t r at eg y  t o  au t o e  ai r  co n d i t i o n i n g  s  I n t J  A d a p t C o n tr o l S ig n a l P r o c e s s   18 9  221  1   Ka n d l i k a r  S  d  r s J   2 0 0 7     Fu r t h e r  ev al u at i o n  o f  a f l o w  b o i l i n g  co r r el at i o n  f o r  mi c r o c h a n n e l s  a n d  mi n i c h a n n e l s   c   of  t he  F i f t h In t e rn a t i o n a l  C o n f e re n c e  o n  N a noc ha nne l s   Mi c r o c h a n n e l s  a n d  Mi n i c h a n n e l s   I C N MM2 0 0 7 30027   2   Sh a h   M   M     2 0 0 9     An  I m p r o v e d  a n d  E x t e n d e d  Ge n e r a l  C o r r e l a t i o n  f o r  He a t  T r a n s f e r  d u r i n g  Co n d e n s a t i o n  i n  P l a i n  T u b e s   HVAC  R  R e s e a r c h  15  889 913   3   Kr e i t h   F     1 9 7 3     P r i n c i p l e s  o f H e a t  T r a n s fe r   t h i r d  ed i t i o n   I n t er t ex t  P r es s   I n c   4   Cr a n e  T e c h   P a p e r  4 1 0 M   1 9 8 2    F l o w  o f  f l u i d s  th r o u g h v a lv e s f ittin g s a n d p ip e  C r a n e C o   5   Go u d a r   C  T    a n d  S o n n a r d   J  R     C o m p a r i s o n  o f  t h e  i t e r a t i v e  ap p r o x i m at i o n s   l k Wh i t e  e q u a t i o n   H y d r o car b o n  Pr o c e s s i n g   A u g u s t   6   Go l v e r k   A A   1 9 9 4     Th e  m e t h o d  f o r  d e v e l o p m e n t  of  a  di e s e l  e ngi ne  uni ve r s a l  pe r f or m a nc e  m a p  S A E  Te c h n i c a l  P a p e r  941928  W a r r e nda l e   P e nn  U S A   7   Ho r n i k   K   S t i n c h o c o m b e   M   a n d  W h i t e   H    M u l t i l a y e r  F e e d f o r w a r d  N e t w o r k s  a r e  U n i v e r s a l  Ap p r o x i m a t i o n s    Ne u r a l  Ne t wo r k s  2   8   As t i n a   I   M a d e  a n d  S a t o   H  4   eq u at i o n  o f  s t at e f o r  1  1  1  2 te tr a f lu o r o e th a n e  w ith  a n  in te r m o le c u la r  p o te n tia l e n e r g y  b a c k g r o u n d  a n d  l eal ga s  pr ope r t i e s    Fl   Ph a s e  E q u i l i b r i a  221 1 2 103  111  9   Yo k o z e k i   A   S a t o   H   W a t a n a b e   K    1 9 9 8     l Ga s  He a t  C a p a c i t i e s  a n d  Vi r i a l  C o e f f i c i e n t s  o f  HF C  Re f r i g e r a n t s  In t   J   T h e rm o p h y s s  19 9 127   20   Kr a u s s   R    L u e t t m e r a nn  J    S e nge r s   J  V    an d  S t ep h an   K      1 9 9 3     T r an s p o r t  P r o p er t i es  o f  2 Te t r a f l u o r o e t h a n e  R  1 3 4 a    In t   J   o f  Th e r m o p h y  14 4   951 988   1      Ue d a   Y   a n d  Ho r i s  M     2 0 0 5      fo r  t h e  T h e r m a l  C o n d u c t i v i t y  o f R R  R nd R  In t   J   o f  T h e rm o p h y s i c s   2 6  5   1423 1435  


  20  B IO G R A P H Y  Ma c i e j  Z   P i n d e r a   St af f  Sc i e nt i s t  at  D y ns an r e c e i v e d hi s  P hD  i n Me c h a n i c a l  E n g i n e e r i n g  i n  1 9 8 6  fr o m  th e  U n iv e r s ity  o f C a lifo r n ia  Be r k e l e y   H e  h a s  d e v e l o p e d  h i g h  ac c ur ac y  c om put e r   co m p l ex i n co m p r es s i b l e a n d  co m p r es s i b l e f l o w s  i n cl u d i n g  co m b u s t i o n   l i n ea r  a n d  n o n l i n ea r  ac ous t i c s  and c av i t at i on  H e  i s  cu r r en t l y w o r ki n g  o n  h i g h  f i d el i t y r ed u ced  m o d el  fo r m u la tio n s fo r h y d r a u lic a p p lic a tio n s    Yu z h i  S u n   St af f  Sc i e nt i s t  at  D n  re c e i v e d  h e r P h D  i n  Me c h a n i c a l  E n g i n e e r i n g  i n  2004 f r om  M i c hi gan St at e  Un i v e r s i t y   M i c h i g a n   S h e  h a s  co n d u ct ed  r es ea r ch  o n  co m p u t a t i o n a l  m et h o d s  o n  di s c r e t e  s y s t e m s   he at  t r ans f e r   co m b u s t i o n   a n d  va r i o u s  gr i ddi ng s c he m e s  f or  t he  Na v i e r i ons  of  flu id  m e c h a n ic s  a n d  a e r o d y n a m ic s  S h e  h a s  b e e n  w o r k in g  o n  re d u c e d  m o d e l  f o rm u l a t i o n s f o r h y d ra u l i c  a p p l i c a t i o n s   an Jac qu e s  M al os s e    Sc i e nt i s t  at  D y ns an r e c e i v e d hi s  Ph  D   i n  Ph y s i c s  i n   Un i v e r s i t y  o f  P a r i s   F r a n c e   i n  1985  H e  has  e x t e ns i v e  exp er i en ce i n  s o l u t i o n s  o f  l a r g e sp a rse  si n g u l a r l i n e a r sy st e m s us e d i n l e as t  s quar e s  appr ox i m at i on of  s ur f ac e s   H e  has  r e c e nt l y  de v e l ope d ge ne r al  so l u t i o n  t e c h n i q u e s f o r v e c t o r se t s o f  st i f f  non lin e a r  o r d in a r y  d iffe r e n tia l e q u a tio n s  H e  is  cu r r en t l y w o r ki n g  o n  r ed u ced  m o d el  f o r m u l a t i o n s  f o r  hy dr aul i c  appl i c at i ons     St e v e n R   V o s e n  Sc i e nt i s t  at  Co m s c i s  re c e i v e d   1 9 7 8  a n d  P h   D   1 9 8 3  f r o m  th e  U n iv e r s ity  o f C a lifo r n ia  y  a n d  h is  M S   1 9 8 0   in  Ae r o n a u t i c s  f r o m  t h e  C a l i f o r n i a  In s t i t u t e  o f  T e c h n o l o g y    wo r k i n g  fo r  C o m s c is  h e  w a s  a  Pr i n c i p a l  Me m b e r  o f  t h e  Te c h n i c a l  S t a f f  a t  S a n d i a  La b o r a t o r i e s   w h e r e  h e  co n d u ct ed  r es ea r ch  i n t o  co m b u s t i o n   ch em i ca l  va p o r  de pos i t i on  and e ne r gy  r e l at e d f i e l ds      


Transformational GovernmentCo-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Csar Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad Rberg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems TrackCo-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and PolicyChair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Gran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologies State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catalo, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Gran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable ResourcesChair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fernndez Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark OMalley Monitoring, Control, and ProtectionChair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. Domnguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan Mani Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient NetworksChair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation ToolC GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare TrackCo-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical InformaticsCo-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cludia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and ApplicationsCo-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health InformaticsCo-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, Jrgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, Jos A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fernndez, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge PlanningExperiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara Eriksn Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and AnalysisCo-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in HealthcareCo-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physicians Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn OMara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy Par, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare EnvironmentsCo-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Snke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim ODonoghue, Noel OKelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Khler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patients Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, Tlay zata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for HealthcareCo-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy TrackCo-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User ExperienceCo-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?A Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumers Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alahivl, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Kernen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic MarketingCo-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and ChasingThe Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individuals Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Arent the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy ResearchCo-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employees Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jrg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten ksz, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital EconomyCo-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on PurposeFactors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open CommunitiesCo-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire Its Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel Andr Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on SocietyCo-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltrn Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltrn An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual UseEmpirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rnkk, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems TrackCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of BeliefsCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing SystemA Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimares, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge SystemsCo-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo Kkl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo Kkl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems ResearchCo-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and SecurityCo-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero Pivrinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge EconomicsCo-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and ExchangeCo-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individuals Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity ManagementCo-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth Rodrguez, Jessica Daz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Prez, and Agustn Yage Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance MeasurementsCo-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology TrackChair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information SystemsCo-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo Kkl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmstrm, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropys Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big DataCo-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo Bhnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and ChallengesCo-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Kppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre Mtrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process ManagementA Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Krp, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jrn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerstrm, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process IntelligenceCo-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus Nttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational InnovationCo-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria kesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications IndustryAn Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and Jose St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bjrn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing WorkforceCo-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 Ren Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developers Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionals Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and AnswersCo-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements UncertaintyA Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and SocietyCo-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic CommerceEvidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis ResponseCo-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System DesignCo-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrdl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for DevelopmentCo-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, Franois Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project ManagementCo-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS OutsourcingA Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its MechanismsChair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. Maada, and Joo Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information TechnologyCo-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the Future School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical SystemsCo-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria kesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network OrganizationsA Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS ResearchCo-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS ResearchA Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and TechnologyCo-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT OutsourcingA Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and Frdric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality ManagementAn Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology TrackCo-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and ProductsChair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, Dbora Martins, and Mariela Corts Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software EngineeringCo-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar Rodrguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fernndez-Snchez, Jessica Daz, Jennifer Prez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and PracticeCo-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian DOrazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software AssuranceCo-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and TrainingCo-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud ComputingCo-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data ProtectionA Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and ManagementCo-Chairs: Timo Kkl and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo Kkl and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 Agustn Yage, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Prez, and Jessica Daz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customers and the Vendors Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile PlatformsCo-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 Sbastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless NetworksCo-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jestdt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


