Abstract 
Vahid Aghaei Foroushani A. Nur Zincir-Heywood 
  Faculty of Computer Science Dalhousie University Halifax, NS, Canada vahid@cs.dal.ca Faculty of Computer Science Dalhousie University Halifax, NS, Canada zincir@cs.dal.ca   
Distributed Denial of Service \(DDoS\ttacks are one of the challenging network security problems to address. The existing defense mechanisms against DDoS attacks usually filter the attack traffic at the victim side. The problem is exacerbated when there are spoofed IP addresses in the attack packets. In this 
TDFA: Traceback-based Defense against DDoS Flooding Attacks 
  
case, even if the attacking traffic can be filtered by the victim, the attacker may reach the goal of blocking the access to the victim by consuming the computing resou rces or by consuming a big portion of the bandwidth to the victim. This paper proposes a Traceback-based Defense against DDoS Flooding Attacks TDFA\pproach to counter this problem. TDFA consists of three main components: Detection, Traceback, and Traffic Control. In this approach, the goal is to place the packet filtering as close to the attack source as possible. In doing so, the traffic control component at the victim side aims to set up a limit on the packet forwarding rate to the victim. This mechanism effectively 
reduces the rate of forwarding the attack packets and therefore improves the throughput of the legitimate traffic. Our results based on real world data sets show that TDFA is effective to reduce the attack traffic and to defend the quality of service for the legitimate traffic 
 KeywordsÑ Packet Filtering Traffic Control; IP Traceback DDoS Attack; Deterministic Flow Marking 
 
I I NTRODUCTION  Distributed Denial of Service \(DDoS\ attacks are a wellknown way to attack a victim machine from a large number of compromised systems. DDoS attackers infect and compromise several vulnerable hosts, dispersed over the Internet, to forward 
a large volume of attack traffic to the victim. This way, they are able to consume critical resources of the victim such as the CPU time, the stack space or the network bandwidth Therefore, the victim cannot provide normal services to the legitimate users Two features of the DDoS attacks are challenging for the security \(defense\stems. Firstly, the DDoS packets tend to appear as legitimate packets, so filtering them with no impact on the legitimate traffic is challenging. Secondly, as the source IP address can be spoofed easily, finding the source of DDoS attacks is very challenging. To fi nd the source of such an attack, several IP traceback mechanisms are proposed. These 
app r o a ch es u s u a l l y re qu i r e th at s o m e  rou t e r s al on g th e att a c k path embed marking information to the packets to recognize the identity of the routers. After collecting an appropriate number of marked packets, the victim is able to find the attack path or the source of the attack. Although the IP traceback approaches let the victim to guess the source of an attack, in general they do not have the ability to decrease the impact of the attack while the attack is in progress In this work, our goal is to explore how far we can push a defense/security system to mitigate the impact of such an attack while the attack is in progress. Our objectives are: \(i\ to minimize the burden of filtering on the participating routers 
ii\ to minimize the number of modifications required on the current protocols in use; and \(iii\ to maximize the survival rate for the legitimate traffic under an intensive attack. To achieve such a solution, we propose the TDFA approach. The proposed system defends against DDoS attacks by coordinating between the defense systems at the source and the victim ends. This necessitates communication between the victim and the filtering routers so that the filtering can be located as far away as possible from the victim. TDFA consists of three main components: Detection, Traceback, and Traffic Control. The detection component aims to detect unusual changes of the 
incoming traffic to identify DDoS attacks. The traceback component employs the deterministic flow marking \(DFM technique [1-3 o f i n d th e s o u r ce of th e att ack   T h e t r af f i c  control component, which is the focus of this work, aims to minimize the attack traffic. Once a DDoS attack is detected by the detection component, the traceback component finds the source of the attack using the DFM technique. Then the traffic control component sends traffic control messages to the edge router of the attack network. When the edge router of the attack network receives the control messages, it will be triggered to adjust the packet forwarding rate to the victim. TDFA filters attack traffic at the source end to eliminate the consumption of 
the computing resources and the bandwidth of the victim. This in return improves the performance of the system for the legitimate services and users To evaluate the performance of the proposed system TDFA is implemented and tested by çCAIDA anonymized Internet traces 2012é and çCAIDA DDoS Attack 2007" traces which are traffic data sets captured in the real world. The results show that TDFA succeeds in lowering the attack traffic by 88%, while maintaining the Quality of Service \(QoS\or the legitimate traffic The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Related works 
2014 IEEE 28th International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications 1550-445X/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/AINA.2014.73 597 


  
  are discussed in Section 2. In Section 3, the proposed defense system is presented. Its performance is evaluated in Section 4 Section 5 provides the conclusions and the future work for this research II R ELATED WORKS  Several defense mechanisms have been proposed to counter DDoS attacks. They can be divided into two main categories Prevention defense and Reaction defense [4 A p r eventi on  defense aims to eliminate the possibility of an attack, or to enable the victim to tolerate an attack without blocking the legitimate traffic. Prevention de fense mechanisms usually require many changes in the softwares and the client/server protocols Reaction defense mechanisms [5,6 im to st o p th e a tta cks  while they are in progress and to reduce the impact of the attacks on the legitimate traffic. In doing so, they require to detect the attack as quickly as possible and to respond to it by blocking the malicious traffic. These defense mechanisms need to discriminate between the legitimate and the attack traffic, so that the traffic filtering can be selectively performed. To this end, first they identify the attack source or the attack path and then, they enable the filtering to block the malicious traffic coming from the identified source. Traffic classification is an important component of the reaction defense mechanisms, but when anonymized or spoofed IP addresses are employed in the attack packets, it becomes more complicated. Although ingress filtering [7  and  r o u t ebas e p a ck et f i lte rin g  8  a r e  tw o w ellknown mechanisms against IP s poofing, their performance is mostly based on the distribution over the network. These defense mechanisms require a router to check the source IP address of each packet agains t a database of legitimate IP addresses. This operation causes a large overhead on the filtering routers and therefore is a challenge to employ in practice. In addition, by spoofing the source IP addresses of the attack packets with the IP addr esses of a legitimate host, the attacker can make these mechanisms ineffective Another approach for detecting and responding to the spoofed attacks is to use IP tunneling between the entire edge routers and several tracing centers [9 Onc e a DD oS  att ac k is  detected, the edge router forwards the victim traffic to the tracking centre. In doing so, the point of attack traffic entry to the Internet can be detected. Besides the considerable overhead of IP tunneling on the edge routers, the tracking centre processes a large amount of traffic during the attack The other mechanism to counter the spoofed attacks is to employ an IP traceback technique [10-12   A n  i d ea l I P  traceback algorithm lets the victim to identify the source of an attack. Therefore, when the traceback is completed, it is possible to identify the attack sources and to block them. It is a valuable defense method against the DDoS attacks. However these methods react to the attack once the attack is completed This means the critical resources of the victim have already been consumed There are several attempts to integrate the traceback mechanisms with the real-time DDoS defense systems to react to the attacks while they are in progress [13-20  Su n g  and  Xu 14 h as su g g este d a m ech anism  w h ere th e I P tr ac eback  a n d  the packet filtering are integrated and work together. Thus, the victim resources are preserved, even before the traceback is completed. In this approach, two types of marks are employed the signaling mark for the traceback and the data mark for filtering. The victim employs a traceback method to identify the attack path. While the traceback algorithm is in progress the victim identifies the data marks of suspicious packets and selects the filtering probability of the marked packets. This decision is based on the rate of incoming packets and the attack path. This algorithm is performed regularly and the results sent to the filtering router that is located near the victim. There are several challenges related to this approach. First of all, filtering is limited to the packets with the data mark, so the data marking rate is required to be adjusted by the attack intensity However, such a feature does not exist in the current traceback approaches. Secondly, the victim sends the identified attack path to all of the filtering routers. To avoid the extra communication overhead between the victim and the filtering router, the number of filtering routers and consequently, the distance between the defense systems and the victim is required to be low \(in terms of the number of hops\. However the proximity of the defense systems and the victim may cause the filtering routers to be overwhelmed by an intense attack where the attackers are highly distributed over the network and can generate a high volume of attack traffic. More importantly if the defense system is located near the victim, when a legitimate packet reaches to the filtering router, it most likely carries the marking information of an infected router, and therefore there is a low probability for it to escape the filtering Chen and Song [15 h a ve  chang e d th e af or em ention e d  defense system [14 t o  on ly r ely on th e  ed g e r o u te r n e ar t h e  victim for both of the IP traceback and the packet filtering purposes. This defense scheme is interesting but if the attack is widely distributed over the Internet, this approach cannot differentiate between the legitimate and the attack traffic appropriately. A good example of this kind of attack is the Code Red Worm that orchestrated 300,000 bots to initiate a DDoS attack against the White House website in 2001 [1   Yaar et al. [17  h a s p r o p o se d th e Pi app r oach  th a t is a  deterministic packet marking DPM\echanism and embeds the path fingerprint into every packet. This defense approach does not work in a situation where the purpose of the attack is to consume the victimês bandwidth, because it only relies on the DDoS packet filtering at the victim side. To address this problem, they also proposed a capability-based defense system 1 H o w e ver th e i r a p pr o a ch  re qu i r es f u n d am ental a n d  essential modifications in the current network protocols. This prevents their approach to be employed easily over the Internet. Chen et al. [19 h a s p r o pos e d  anoth e r D D o S a tta ck  detection and filtering based on packet marking which is very similar to the Pi approach [17 In st ea d o f  t r ack i n g th e  attacking packets, they have proposed to create a table of legitimate paths and eliminate the packets that come from the other paths. Since the filtering operation is performed at the victim side, this approach suffers from the same problems as the Pi approach III T HE P ROPOSED D EFENSE S YSTEM   TDFA It was first observed by Mahajan et al. [21  th at w h en a DDoS attack occurs, most of the traffic drops by the upstream routers, even before reaching to the victim. In this case, when 
598 


TA PF 
002 002 002 
DFME DFMD TA PF TA TA PF TA DFMD TA PF PF TA PF A Deterministic Packet Marking \(DFM\ IP Traceback DFME DFME DFME K M=60/K S=log 2 K K M S 
   Fig. 1 The locations of TDFA modules on a sample network. The hosts H1, H2, H3, H4 and H5 are legitimate hosts. The DDoS Detection component: This component is used at the victim-end edge network for recognizing anomalous changes on the network traffic. There are several algorithms and tools for detecting DDoS attacks that can be used for this component such as Snort [22   Our  intention in this paper is not to propose a new DDoS detection algorithm IP Traceback component: The IP traceback component employs the DFM traceback technique to identify the source of a DDoS attack. This traceback mechanism consists of a light weight flow marking module running on the edge routers and a mark decoding module running on the victim-end nfer the source of traffic based on the information extracted from the marked packets. A detailed description of the DFM technique could be found in our previous work [1 Traffic Control component: Th is component consists of two modules: Traffic Adjustment Packet Filtering modules. The module runs on the victim or the border gateway device \(e.g. firewall\of the victim network. After finding the source of the attack, using IP traceback component, the module sends a request message, which carries attack traffic information, to the defense system at the source-end edge network. On the other hand, the module runs on every edge router and filters packets that are directed to the victim based on the instructions issued from the module After analyzing the network traffic on the victim or the border devices \(Router 1 in Fig. 1\, the DDoS detection component reports to the IP traceback module bout the ongoing DDoS attack. By collecting the appropriate number of marked packets from the source-end edge routers the IP traceback component infers the IP address of the source end edge routers \(e.g. Routers 6 and 9 in Fig. 1\ and aims to detect the origin of the attackers. Then, the module at the victim-end sends a request message to the module at the source-end edge router \(e.g. Routers 6 and 9\Based on this information, the modules at the source-end sets a forwarding rate limit on the packets that are directed to the victim Next, we briefly review the DFM IP traceback mechanism and describe the aforementioned and modules in detail To employ an IP traceback mechanism in TDFA, we prefer the technique that requires a small number of marked packets to infer the source of an attack, that imposes little workload on the participating routers, and only needs the participation of the edge routers \(not all\long the attack path. Among the IP traceback techniques, DFM shows better performance than the PPM or the DPM in realizing the aforementioned requirements as demonstrated in the evaluations in [1,3   In DF M e a ch  Internet edge router marks the flows in a deterministic way These marks allow the victim to find the source of an attack which consists of the network edge router of the attacker, the ingress interface of the edge router, and the attacker node behind the edge router, even if the attacker is located behind a NAT or a firewall DFM encoding module marks every flow, \(i.e. the first two or five packets of each flow\stead of every packet to take advantage of both the high traceback accuracy and the low packet marking rate. The DFM encoding module  uses three identifiers to mark a flow: \(i\ the IP address of the egress interface of the edge router; \(ii\ the network interface identifier \(NI-ID\, which is an identifier assigned to each interface of either the MAC address of a network interface on the edge router, or the VLAN ID of a virtual interface if the edge router uses VLAN interfaces; and \(iii\ Node-ID, which is an identifier assigned to each source MAC address observed on incoming traffic from local networks. In this IP traceback approach, only the edge router marks the packets, and the rest including the core routers, are not involved in packet marking The module marks each flow by using 60-bits identification data to distinguish the traffic of a particular node from the other nodes. The 60-bits identification data is divided into fragments; therefore the mark contains bits of the identification data and bits are required to identify a fragment. DFM also takes advantage of one flag bit to identify the marked and the unmarked packets in a flow. The first packets of every flow carry the mark fragments including bits for identification data fragment offset bits 
 module at the victim end is in communication with the  module on the edge routers of the attacking networks the attack is heavy, it is impossible for the defense system to react to the attack at the victim-end. To mitigate the attack, we propose a system model to set up the second defense line at the upstream routers to react to the attack, Fig. 1. This system relies on the IP traceback approach based on the DFM [1-3  algorithm. DFM enables the victim to differentiate the traffic coming from different sources. DFM has the ability to infer the source of an attack. What makes DFM more appealing is that unlike several other IP traceback methods, DFM only requires the cooperation of the edge router. The proposed system based on DFM improves the throughput of the legitimate traffic during the attack by filtering the attack traffic at the sourceend. This approach can be viewed as a distributed algorithm that consists of the following components 
 
   
599 


TA PF 
 
2 S F DFMD K DFMD F B Traffic Adjustment \(TA\ and Packet Filtering Modules TA PF TA PF PF X 2 X PF PF PF TA TA PF PF PF TA TA PF TA PF TA PF TA TA PF PF TA TA TA 
002\003\004\005 \006\007\010\011  012\013\014 \002\003\004\005\011\015 012\013\014 \002\003\004\005\011\015  012\013\014 \012\011\016\010 1 
   Fig 2 The proposed ICMP messge, desined for communication between the possible fragments and one bit flag which should be set to ç1é for the marked packets and ç0é for the others At the destination-end, the DFM decoding odule maintains a table matching the flow ID and possible mark fragments. Flow ID has been defined as the five tuples indicating the source IP address, thedestination IP address, the L4 protocol type \(TCP/UDP\ the source port and the destination port numbers for TCP and UDP flows. For ICMP flows, it has been defined as the six tuples including the source IP address, the destination IP address, the L4 protocol type ICMP\, the ICMP type, the ICMP code and the ICMP ID When a packet of an unseen flow arrives at the destination node, the module extracts the marking information of this flow from the marked packets, identified by flag. After all the fragments corresponding to a flow reach the destination the source node for the given flow is recognized by the destination. Using DFM, the destination is able to differentiate the traffic of different nodes behind an edge router. As a result when abnormal traffic is observed, the victim is able to distinguish between the attack and the legitimate traffic and infer the source of an attack. In a situation when the attacker spoofs the source MAC address of the attack packets with several valid MAC addresses in the network, then DFM can infer the source of an attack up to the ingress interface of the attacker end edge router To control the attack traffic, we propose a rate limit algorithm that relies on some concepts of TCP flow and congestion control algorithms to allocate the bandwidth to all the incoming traffic from the routers that forward the attack traffic. It is not fair to punish all these routers by setting the same rate limit on them. Therefore the traffic histories of individual routers should be considered by the module before sending a rate limit request to a module. Our proposed defense algorithm can be divided into the following phases Connection Establishment: Connections must be properly established in a 3-way handshake process. The module at the victim end opens a fu ll duplex session with the  module at the attacker edge router end for subsequent communications Congestion Avoidance: The module performs the congestive avoidance phase once it gets a message indicating that the destination of the outgoing packets is under a DDoS flooding attack. In this case, the forwarding rate of the packets directed to the victim is decreased exponentially in such a manner that the forwarding rate is halved at each round trip time \(i.e. after round trip times the forwarding rate will be decreased by times\. This operation continues until the module gets a message from the victim indicating that the receiving packet rate is tolerable Slow Start: The module performs this phase once it is informed that the victim is able to tolerate the current packet forwarding rate. In this case, the packet forwarding rate to the victim is increased linearly. After each increase in the rate, the module sends an update message to the module indicating that the rate has been changed, and then waits for the confirmation of the new rate from the module. This way, the module infers if the victim is able to tolerate the new rate or not. If the new rate is not confirmed, then the algorithm gets back to the congestion avoidance phase; otherwise, it waits for a given period of time and then increases the fo rwarding rate again. This process continues until the packet drop rate, calculated by the module, is equal to zero. The packet drop rate is calculated using Eq. 1  Zero drop rate means that either the flooding attack is finished, or the current rate of packet forwarding can be tolerated by the victim without any impact on the throughput of the legitimate tr affic from the other paths Connection Termination: If the drop rate is zero, then the module removes any rate limit on the forwarding packets destined to the victim and sends an update message to the module. If the module confirms the new rate limit, the algorithm enters the connection termination phase to close the established virtual circuit This process can be done by a 3-way FIN/ACK exchanges between the and the modules, which is started by the module. If the module does not confirm it, the algorithm gets back to the congestion avoidance phase Note that once the module changes the packet forwarding rate \(it may happen in any of the phases, namely congestion avoidance, slow start, and connection termination phases\, it sends an update message to the module and waits for a response. If the module does not confirm the new rate, then the module performs the congestion avoidance phase again. Not confirming to the new rate limit is determined by the module in 3 ways 1 Getting an ACK+REQ2 message from the module: If the module gets an update message from the PC module while the victim is still under the flooding attack it sends an ACK+REQ2 message to the PC 2 Duplicated acknowledgment or request messages: It means that the victim is under a heavy flooding attack, so the update message has not reached to the module due to the traffic congestion 3 Lack of acknowledgment before time  out: It  indicates  that 
and the modules to represent 
       
002 002 002 002 
600 


TA PF 
TA C The Proposed System Design TA P TA PF PF TA TA PF TA PF TA PF TA PF TA A PF A B TA PF A B TA PF TA PF PF PF TA 
 SYN FIN ACK REQ1 REQ2 SYN 1 0 0 0 0 SYN+ACK 1 0 1 0 0 FIN 0 1 0 0 0 FIN+ACK 0 1 1 0 0 ACK 0 0 1 0 0 REQ1: Node Filtering 0 0 0 1 0 REQ2: Interface Filtering 0 0 0 0 1 ACK+REQ2 0 0 1 0 1 Update 0 0 0 1 1 because of heavy traffic, the bandwidth is full at the victim-end and the 
  Fig. 3 The proposed defense approach in operation TABLE  I MESSAGES EXCHANGED BETWEEN THE messages cannot reach to the PC module To transmit the control messages between the and F modules, we propose to use Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP\. ICMP messages are used by network devices, like routers, to send error messages indicating, for example, that a requested service is not available or that a host or a router could not be reached. ICMP can also be used to relay query messages. Fig. 2 presents the pr oposed ICMP message that is very similar with the ICMP Timestamp \(Type 13\ and the ICMP address Mask Request \(Typ e 17\ messages [23 Fo r all  the ICMP packets, the first 4 bytes of the header will be consistent. The first byte is for the ICMP type. The second byte is for the ICMP code, and th e third and fourth bytes are a checksum of the entire ICMP message. The first byte can be used to address 255 different ICMP Type values, but so far only 28 of them are used and the rest are free to employ for other purposes. Types 1 and 2 are both free, so we have employed type 1 for sending messages from the module to the module and type 2 for sending messages from the  module to the module. The next 39 bits consists of 16 bits sequence number, 16 bits acknowledgment number, and 5 control flag bits including SY N, FIN, ACK, REQ1 and REQ2 If the SYN flag is set to \(1\, then this is the initial sequence number. The sequence number of the actual first data byte and the acknowledgement number in the corresponding ACK are equal to this sequence number plus 1. If the SYN flag is clear 0\, then this is the accumulated sequence number of the first data byte of this segment for th e current session. If the ACK flag is set then the value of th is field is the next sequence number that the receiver is expecting. This acknowledges receipt of all prior bytes \(if any\. The first ACK sent by each end acknowledges the other end's initial sequence number itself. The next two fields are th e Interface-ID and Node-ID of the attacker that are identified by the IP traceback component Using these 2 fields, the module sends the attacker identity to the module The proposed defense approach is shown in Fig. 3. All the messages exchanged between the and the modules and their flags in the ICMP header are shown in Table 1. To establish a connection between the module at the victim end, and the module at the attacker end edge router, the three-way handshake should be set. Establishing a connection is initiated by the module at the victim-end by sending a SYN message to the module and the attacker-end edge router \(Line 1 in Fig. 3\. The module sets the segment's sequence number to a random value In response, the  module replies with a SYN-ACK message. The acknowledgment number is then set to the received sequence number plus one 1, and the sequence number that the server chooses for the packet is another random number Finally the module sends an ACK back to the module. The sequence number is set to the value of the received acknowledgement, i.e 1, and the acknowledgement number is se t to 1. At this point, both the and the modules have received an acknowledgment of the connection. As described in [1,2  in th e cases w h ere th e I P t r a ce b a ck  component is able to find the exact node \(Line 3 - Fig. 3\ the module sends REQ1 message to ask to the module to block all the traffic corresponding to the attacker. This can be done by providing the Node-ID and the NI-ID of the attacker node in the REQ1 message. Then, the module blocks all packets coming from that specific node and sends an ACK message to the victim. As described before, in some cases the IP traceback component can find the ingress interface of the edge router on the attacker side, but not the attacker node behind that edge router. In these cases the proposed algorithm performs the congestion avoidance phase to mitigate the effect of DDoS attack.  Lines 4-8 \(Fig. 3\emonstrate the congestion avoidance phase to exponentially decrease the attack forwarding rate. Once the module receives a REQ2 message \(Line 4 - Fig. 3\t h alves the forwarding rate \(Line 5 Fig. 3\ and sends an update message to the victim.  Then, the module decides if the curren t rate is still above the load 
AND THE  MODULES AND THEIR FLAGS IN THE ICMP HEADER  
 
601 


    
PF TA TA PF PF RL RL TA PF IR PF IR IR PF WT RL IR WT 
002 002 002 
  Fig. 4 The DDoS traffic rate \(Gb/m\, with and without using the TDFA defense system  Fig. 5 The normal traffic rate \(Gb/m\ from Caida 2012 data set limit \(Line 6 - Fig. 3\, or not \(Line 8 - Fig. 3\. Lines 13-17 Fig. 3\ present the connection termination phase. This occurs when either the flooding attack has ended or the victim is able to tolerate the current packet forwarding rate. The connection termination is initiated by the module \(Line 17 - Fig. 3\by sending a FIN message to the module. In return, the  module replies with a FIN+ACK message and then the  module replies with an ACK message IV E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS  Real life data sets are essential for the evaluation of any defense system. Very few data sets representing real DDoS attacks are publicly available, mostly because of legal and privacy issues. This study is validated using two real world Internet traffic traces, each of them are available in the public domain For a real-world DDoS attack, we have used çThe CAIDA DDoS Attack 2007é Data set [24   T h is  da ta se t c o n ta in s  approximately one hour of anonymized traffic traces of DDoS attacks captured on August 4, 2007. This data set represents DDoS attacks where the attackers attempt to block access to the targeted victim by consuming computing resources on the victim and by consuming all of the bandwidth of the network connecting the victim to the Internet. The total size of the data set is 21 GB On the other hand, çThe CAIDA anonymized Internet traces October 2012é Data set [25 is th e  da ta set  re pr esen t i n g the normal traffic used in our work. This data set contains approximately one hour of anonymized passive traffic traces from CAIDA's Equinix-Sanjose monitor on high-speed Internet links. The total size of this data set in one direction is 67.7 GB The characteristics of the CAIDA attack and normal data sets in terms of the traffic volume are presented in Fig. 4 \(black line\ and Fig. 5, respectively. Fig. 4 \(black line\ shows the CAIDA DDoS attack where after the initial 26 minutes, the traffic rate abruptly jumps and attains the maximum. This maximum is held for the remainder of the attack period. In DDoS attacks, the compromised machines \(bots\ are infected by malwares which are programed to direct traffic to the victim at their maximum capacity. In order to accelerate the damage the bot master triggers the bots simultaneously. On getting the commands from the bot master, bots start to forward the traffic to the victim. Therefore, the v ictim experiences a sudden burst in the incoming traffic over a relativity short period of time This causes the victim to exceed its maximum tolerable limits and thereby, forces the victim to slow down its normal operations, or even shut down in some cases. In contrast to this, the traffic rate of the normal traffic gradually increases over time, Fig. 5. Hence, it should be possible to use this difference in the rates of incoming traffic to identify the DDoS attack. The DDoS detection component is invoked at regular time intervals to analyze the rate of incoming packets. In this case, such a sudden change in the average incoming traffic is used as the evidence of a DDoS attack by the DDoS detection component \(in fact human experts and other systems also use this type of information\. As stated earlier, the traffic histories of individual traffic sources \(differentiating the individual traffic sources is performed by the IP traceback component\ are considered before rending a rate limit request to the  module. For example, a change from an average of 40,000 incoming packets over the first 25 minutes versus an average of approximately 1,500,000 packets over the first 27 minutes is taken as a sign of a DDoS attack Indeed, a good defense system for such DDoS attacks should be able to mitigate the impact of the attack and it should maximize the high survival rate of legitimate traffic. To achieve this, 3 parameters are considered Rate Limit  is the maximum rate of incoming packets from the attacker that the victim can tolerate. This parameter should be defined by the module before it establishes a connection to the module Increasing Rate In the slow start phase, the module should gradually increase the forwarding rate by  can be calculated as a fraction of the last forwarding rate before the module performs the congestion avoidance phase Waiting Time This parameter indicates the time intervals \(in seconds\ between each update in the forwarding rate during the slow start phase The desirable  and parameters should result in a higher incoming rate of the legitimate packets and a lower incoming rate of the attack packets. Moreover, it should enable a lower communication and bandwidth overhead. It should also enable a lower duration for the sl ow start phase that incurs less delay in the rate limit removal after the attack is over 
602 


WT IR 
 RL   
WT Number of controlling Packets Volume of controlling Packets \(KB DDoS Attack Reduction  Slow Start Phase  Duration second 1 4023 236 88.023 10 2 2013 118 88.039 20 3 1343 79 88.037 30 To evaluate the proposed system, we set up a test network in our research lab. Two separated LANs, one for the DDoS attack data set and the other for the attack free data set are set up, where both are connected to an edge router. For replaying the DDoS data set, we take advantage of 
10 AND 0.5  M EGA BIT PER SECOND 
012\017\004\020 \012\010\007\003\010 \021\022\007\023\011 \002\013\003\007\010\024\004\016 \(\023\011\025\004\016\015  026\027 2 \030\006 2 
   Fig 6 Six Minutes \(2430\ DDoS traffic rate \(Mb/s\ith and without attack filtering by TDFA TABLE  2. E VALUATION RESULTS OF THE PROPOSED APPROACH BY DIFFERENT VALUES OF and open source applications [26 to  f o rw ard all  t h e traffic to a computer, in this case the victim node. In addition we developed two programs, one as the module located at the victim end and the other as the module located at the edge router The parameter determines the attack rate reduction. The and the parameters do not have any impact on this Choosing the value of is a tradeoff between the receiving rate of legitimate and DDoS packets from the same subnetwork. While lower is more effective in reducing the attack, which is desirable, at the same time it reduces the incoming rate of the legitimate traffic, which is undesirable Vice versa, higher maximizes the rate of legitimate traffic but increases the impact of a DDoS attack. Selecting the  greatly depends on different network conditions and traffic patterns such as the victimês bandwidth, the CPU and memory capacity of the victim, the total incoming traffic from all the individual traffic sources, and the traffic history of the attacker network. We evaluated our system twice  by setting the  parameter to 10 Mb/s and 15 Mb/s, so when the incoming traffic rate exceeds these limits, the module starts the communication with the PF module to mitigate the impact of the attack. Obviously choosing higher values maximize the rate of the legitimate traffic, but also increase the impact of a DDoS attack Fig. 4 presents the incoming DDoS traffic rate to the victim, with and without using the proposed TDFA defense system. It shows that the cooperation between the and  modules is started around 26 th minute to control the incoming rate of DDoS packets. Our evaluation results show that our proposed system reduces the attack by 88% and 83% by setting 10 Mb/s \(red line\ and 15 Mb/s \(blue line respectively The parameter has a decisive role in the amount of communication overhead. As the increases \(increasing the time interval between each forwarding rate update\, the communication between the and the modules decreases which is desirable. The duration of the slow start phase can be calculated by Eq. 2  As can be seen in Eq. 2, the and the parameters have direct and inverse relations with the duration of the slow start phase, respectively. However, the parameter does not have any relation with the duration of the slow start phase. A higher and a lower incur more delay in the rate limit removal after the attack ends, which is undesirable. On the other hand the IR value should be kept small, so that the and the  modules can adjust the traffic rate around the value more accurately. Therefore, selecting an appropriate value for the parameter is a tradeoff between the communication overhead and the delay in the rate limit removal after the attack is over Since the DDoS traffic rate in the Caida datatset reaches the maximum in 50 seconds, the slow start phase duration should not exceed this period. So, in the worst case, 50 seconds after an attack is completed, the PF module removes the rate limit Note that if the system can tolerate more communication overhead, it is better to reduce the slow start phase duration as much as possible. We repeated our evaluation by setting the to  and seconds and the to to keep the slow start phase duration less than 50 seconds \(Eq. 2\. Table 2 shows the results of these evaluations. As you can see increasing or decreasing the parameter does not have high impact on the attack rate reduction. However, choosing the lower causes more communication and therefore more bandwidth overhead between the and the modules. On the other hand, higher increases the slow start phase duration and therefore, incurs delay in the rate limit removal after the attack completion. Selecting an appropriate value of is determined based on the priority of the lower communication overhead \(higher value\, or the lower latency in the rate limit removal after the attack completion Lower value\. Therefore, all the results presented in Table 2 are equally good. In short, different values of can be set based on the different priorities of the organization that manages the network Fig. 6 presents the incoming DDoS traffic rate with and without filtering between the 24 th and 30 th minutes \(the time period that the sudden burst happens\ at 1 second intervals. As shown in this figure, once the incoming attack traffic exceeds the 10 Mb/sec\ value \(this at 26.31 minutes\, the  module performs the congestion avoidance phase to halve the forwarding rate immediately. Then the forwarding rate increases gradually at each period \(in this case, 2 seconds by 0.5 Mb/s\ in the slow start phase. So it takes 20 seconds 
tcpreplay tcprewrite TA PF A Attack Rate Reduction RL IR WT RL RL RL RL RL TA RL TA PF RL RL B Communication overhead WT WT TA PF WT IR RL WT IR TA PF RL WT WT 1 2 3 IR 1/20 WT WT TF PF WT WT WT WT WT RL PF WT IR 
AT 
  
603 


                          
 
C Processing Overhead TA PF PF TA PF 
  to reach to the RL again \(slow start phase duration\. Then the congestion avoidance phase is ente red. This is the reason why the forwarding rate decreases and increases alternately. This process is performed over and over until the end of the attack This is determined when the PF senses that the incoming rate is less than the forwarding rate \(the drop rate is zero In the proposed system, the filtering decision is made by the module at the victim end, so the module does not incur any overhead on the edge routers for making such filtering decisions. In addition, filtering is an embedded and a key feature of almost all the Internet edge routers, so there is no overhead related to installing such a feature on an edge router. The overhead of the modules on the edge routers is as low as computing the packet drop rate and communicating with the module by sending the ACK and the update messages. Therefore, a very low processing overhead \(in our experiments a few milliseconds\ incurred at the edge routers V C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  One of the major defense chal lenges against DDoS attacks is how to control the attack traffic to preserve the quality of service of the legitimate traffic. To address this issue, we have proposed TDFA, a traceback based defense system against flooding attacks that make use of spoofed addresses. The proposed framework uses the strategy of detecting the attack as well as finding the source of the attack at the victim end, and responding to the attack at the source end. These tasks are carried out by the traffic adjustment module \(TF\, DFM IP traceback algorithm at the victim end, and the packet filtering module at the edge router of the source end, respectively The recovery process is also triggered if the traffic returns to normal. In this work, we have implemented and evaluated the proposed system, TDFA, against the real-world DDoS and normal traffic traces. Our results show that TDFA efficiently drops the attack packets at the source end of the attack, while imposing a low overhead on the edge routers participating in the defense. Moreover, the location of defense modules are fully in line with the location of DFM IP traceback modules making the scheme more deployable. For future work, we plan to implement and evaluate the se curing of the TDFA system itself. In the absence of an appropriate security mechanism, an attacker can deceive the edge router into doing wrong filtering A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research is supported by the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada \(NSERC\ grant, and is conducted as part of the Dalhousie NIMS Lab at https://projects.cs.dal.ca/projectx R EFERENCES  1 
V. Aghaei-Foroushani and A.N. Zincir-Heywood, çIP traceback through authenticated\ deterministic flow marking: an empirical evaluation EURASIP Journal on Information Security, 2013, \(in press 2 V. Aghaei-Foroushani and A.N. Zincir-Heywood, çDeterministic and authenticated flow marking for IP tracebacké, The 27th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications \(AINA\, pp. 397-404, Barcelona, Mar. 2013 3 V. Aghaei-Foroushani and A.N. Zincir-Heywood, çOn evaluating IP traceback schemes: a practical perspectiveé, IEEE International Workshop on Cyber Crime with IEEE S&P, pp. 127Ö134, San Francisco, May 2013 4 H. Beitollahi and G. Deconinck, çAnalyzing well-known countermeasures against distributed denial of service attacksé, Journal on Computer Communication,vol. 35, no. 11, pp.1312Ö1332, June 2012 5 H. Lam, C. Li, S.T. Chanson and D. Yeung, çA coordinated detection and response scheme for distributed denial-of-service attacksé, IEEE International Conf. on Communications,vol.5,pp. 2165Ö2170,June 2006 6 Z. Jian-Qi, F. Feng, C. Kim, Y. Ke-xin and L. Yan-Heng, çA DoS detection method based on composition selfsimilarityé, KSII Transactions on Internet and Information Systems, vol. 6, no. 5, pp 1463Ö1478, May 2012 7 P. Ferguson and D. Senie, çNetwork ingress filtering: defeating denial of service attacks which employ IP source address spoofingé, RFC 2827 Internet Engineering Task Force \(IETF\, 2000 8 Z. Duan, X. Yuan and J. Chandrashekar, çControlling IP spoofing through interdomain packet filtersé, IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 22Ö36, Mar. 2008 9 R. Stone, çCenterTrack: an IP overlay network for tracking DoS floods 9th Conf. USENIX Security Symposium, Denver, pp. 199Ö212, 2000  M. Yang, çRIHT: A Novel Hybrid IP Traceback Scheme,é IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, vol. 7, no 2, pp 789-797, Apr. 2012  T. Hongcheng and B. Jun, çAn Incrementally Deployable Flow-Based Scheme for IP Tracebacké, IEEE Communications Letters, Vol. 16, no 7, pp. 1140-1143, Jul. 2012  A. Belenky and N. Ansari, çOn deterministic packet marking Computer Networks: The International Journal of Computer and Telecom. Networking, Vol. 51. No. 10, pp. 2677-2700, Jul. 2007  Y. You, M. Zulkernine and A. Haque, çA distributed defense framework for flooding-based DDoS attacksé, 3rd Int. Conf. Availability Reliability and Security, pp. 245Ö252, Barcelona, Mar. 2008  M. Sung and J. Xu, çIP traceback-based intelligent packet filtering: a novel technique for defending against Internet DDoS attacksé, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 14, no. 9, pp 861Ö872, Sep. 2003  Q. Song and S. Chen, çPerimeter-based defense against high bandwidth DDoS attacksé, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 526Ö537, June 2005  D. Evans and D. Larochelle, çImproving security using extensible lightweight static analysisé,IEEE Soft.,vol.19, no.1, pp.42Ö51,Feb. 2002  A. Yaar, A. Perrig and D. Song, çStackPi: new packet marking and filtering mechanisms for DDoS and IP Spoofing Defenseé, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Comm., vol. 24, no. 10, pp. 1853Ö1863, Oct. 2006  A. Yaar, A. Perrig and D. Song çSIFF: a stateless Internet flow filter to mitigate DDoS flooding attacksé, IEEE Symp. Security and Privacy Berkeley, pp. 130Ö143, May 2004  Y. Chen, S. Das, P. Dhar, A. El Saddik and A. Nayak, çDetecting and preventing IP-spoofed distributed DoS attacksé International Journal of Network Security, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 69Ö80, July 2008  M.S. Fallah and N. Kahani, çTDPF: a traceback-based distributed packet filter to mitigate spoofed DDoS attacksé, Security and communication networks, Wiley Online Library, DOI: 10.1002/sec.725, Feb. 2013  R. Mahajan, S. Bellovin, S. Floyd, J. Ioannidis, V. Paxson, and S Sh enker, çControlling high bandwidth aggregates in the network Technical report, ACIRI and AT&T Labs Research, Feb. 2001  Snort network intrusion prevention and detection system, Accessed 28 October 2013, https://www.snort.org  Internet Control Message Protocol, Accessed 28 October 2013 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol  The CAIDA "DDoS Attack 2007" Data set, Accessed 28 October 2013 http://www.caida.org/data/passiv e/ddos-20070804_dataset.xml  The CAIDA Anonymized Internet Traces 2012 Data set Accessed 28 October 2013 http://www.caida.org/data/passive/passive_2012_dataset.xml  A Turner Tcpreplay suite, Accessed 28 October 2013 http://tcpreplay.synfin.net 
 
604 


VSched vTurbo 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Number of Slots Time\(s        
002\003\004 005\002\003\004 006\002\003\004 007\002\003\004 010\002\003\004 011\002\003\004 012\002\003\004 013\002\003\004 014\002\003\004 015\002\003\004 005\002\002\003\004 016\017\016\020\004\021\022\023\004 016\017\016\020\004\024\017\025\024\004 020\017\004 026\027\030\031\032\027\033\034\035\004 035\036\030\037 \027\030\035\004 027\030\035\004 030\036"# \036\037\030\032$\004 030\036"# \027\030\035\004 036\037\034 #\017\035\036\030\037'\027\034\004 036\037\034 
a EDF b MIMP Figure 10 The slot allocation for the rst 10 minutes MIMP vs EDF Figure 11 Job Distribution on high vs low load server best tting slots to each one While this can result in longer job completion times MIMP still ensures that all jobs will meet their deadlines and improves overall efìciency due to resource afìnity Figure 11 breaks down the percent of tasks completed by the highly loaded and lightly loaded servers when using MIMP Since each job has a different arrival period some jobs such as Pi have more total tasks than infrequent jobs such as k-means However the results still follow our expectations based on the models shown in Figure 7 For example Pi and grep-search have particularly high normalized TCT when the web server utilization rises so MIMP runs relatively fewer of those tasks on the highly loaded servers In contrast sortês completion time does not change much so MIMP runs more of those tasks on the highly loaded servers VII R ELATED W ORK 
Several previous works propose to improve the efìciency of Xenês Credit CPU scheduler For example proposes a modiìcation to the scheduler that asynchronously assigns each virtual CPU to a physical CPU in order to reduce CPU sleep time Lin et al de v eloped that schedules batch workloads within interactive VMs without compromising the usability of interactive applications The drawback of this system is that it was not designed to run on a cluster Xi et al use techniques from Real-Time scheduling to give stricter deadline guarantees to each virtual machine Other work has looked at avoiding interference between these tasks by careful VM placement 23 or dedicating resources P aragon 7 proposes a heterogeneous and interference-aware data center scheduler The system prefers to assign the applications on the heterogeneous hardware platform that the application can beneìt from and have less interference with the co-scheduled applications MIMP extends our preliminary study to reduce interference through minor changes to Xenês scheduler and then uses the residual resources for big data applications To improve I/O performance Xu et al propose the use of cores that have a much smaller time-slice compared to normal cores reducing the overall IRQ processing latency Cheng et al impro v es I/O performance for Symmetric MultiProcessing VMs by dynamically migrating the interrupts from a preempted VCPU to a running VCPU thereby avoiding interrupt processing delays Our current focus is on shared environments where disk I/O is not the bottleneck for interactive applications but view this as important future work Job scheduling in MapReduce environments has focused on topics like fairness 24 and dynamic cluster sharing among users Bu et al 1 propose a ne w hadoop scheduler based on the existing fair scheduler They present an interference and locality-aware task scheduler for MapReduce in virtual clusters and design a task performance prediction model for an interference-aware policy Morton et al provide a time-based progress indicator for a series of Map Reduce jobs which can be used to predict job completion times Polo et al provide a system to dynamically adjust the number of slots provided for map reduce jobs on each host to maximize the resource utilization of a cluster and to meet the deadline of the jobs 19 decides the appropriate number of slots allocated to map and reduce based on the upper and lower bounds of batch workload completion time obtained from the history of job proìling Our work is distinct from prior work in that we estimate the job completion time of the batch jobs that are running in clusters with unpredictable resource availability due to other foreground applications Previous works 9 12 14 ha v e sho wn heterogeneous cluster designs wherein a core set of dedicated nodes running batch jobs are complemented by residual resources from volunteer nodes or in some cases using spot instances from EC2 The closest w ork to ours is by Clay et al The y present a system that determines the appropriate cluster-size to harness the residual resources 
Pi WordCount  TeraSort  Sort  grep-search  grep-sort  Kmeans-Iter  Kmeans-class  0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Number of Slots Time\(s       
Virtual Machine Scheduling Hadoop Scheduling  Modeling 
402 


 2013  L Cheng and C.-L W ang vBalance using interrupt load balance to improve I/O performance for SMP virtual machines In  2012  T  Chia-Y ing and L Kang-Y uan A Modiìed Priority Based CPU Scheduling Scheme for Virtualized Environment  6\(2 2013  N Chohan C Castillo M Spreitzer  M Steinder  A T anta wi and C Krintz See spot run using spot instances for mapreduce workîows In  2010  R B Clay  Z Shen and X Ma Accelerating Batch Analytics with Residual Resources from Interactive Clouds In  2013  J Dean and S Ghema w at MapReduce Simpliìed Data Processing on Large Clusters  51 2008  C Delimitrou and C K ozyrakis P aragon QoS-a w are Scheduling for Heterogeneous Datacenters In  2013  A Greenber g J Hamilton D A Maltz and P  P atel The cost of a cloud research problems in data center networks  39\(1 Dec 2008  H Herodotou F  Dong and S Bab u No one cluster size ts all automatic cluster sizing for data-intensive analytics In  2011  M Isard V  Prabhakaran J Curre y  U W ieder  K T al w ar  and A Goldberg Quincy fair scheduling for distributed computing clusters In  2009  E K eller  J Szefer  J Re xford and R B Lee NoHype virtualized cloud infrastructure without the virtualization In  2010  G Lee B.-G Chun and H Katz Heterogeneity-a w are resource allocation and scheduling in the cloud In  2011  B Lin and P  A Dinda Vsched Mixing batch and interacti v e virtual machines using periodic real-time scheduling In  2005  H Lin X Ma J Archuleta W c Feng M Gardner  and Z Zhang MOON MapReduce On Opportunistic eNvironments In  2010  K Morton A Friesen M Balazinska and D Grossman Estimating the progress of MapReduce pipelines In  2010  J Polo C Castillo D Carrera Y  Becerra I Whalle y  M Steinder J Torres and E Ayguad  e Resource-aware adaptive scheduling for mapreduce clusters In  2011  T  Sandholm and K Lai Dynamic proportional share scheduling in Hadoop In  2010  B Sharma T  W ood and C R Das HybridMR A Hier archical MapReduce Scheduler for Hybrid Data Centers In  2013  A V erma L Cherkaso v a V  K umar  and R Campbell Deadline-based workload management for MapReduce environments Pieces of the performance puzzle In  2012  C A W aldspur ger  Memory resource management in VMware ESX server  36\(SI Dec 2002  S Xi J W ilson C Lu and C Gill R T Xen to w ards realtime hypervisor scheduling in xen In  2011  C Xu S Gamage H Lu R K ompella and D Xu vT urbo accelerating virtual machine I/O processing using designated turbo-sliced core In  2013  Y  Xu Z Musgra v e B Noble and M Baile y  Bobtail Avoiding Long Tails in the Cloud In  2013  M Zaharia D Borthakur  J Sen Sarma K Elmelee gy  S Shenker and I Stoica Delay scheduling a simple technique for achieving locality and fairness in cluster scheduling In  2010  W  Zhang S Rajasekaran and T  W ood Big Data in the Background Maximizing Productivity while Minimizing Virtual Machine Interference In  2013  Z Zhang L Cherkaso v a A V erma and B T  Loo Perfor mance Modeling and Optimization of Deadline-Driven Pig Programs  8 2013 
Proc of HPDC Proc of SOCC International Journal of Hybrid Information Technology Proc of HotCloud Proc of MASCOTS Commun ACM Proc of ASPLOS SIGCOMM Comput Commun Rev Proc of SOCC Proc.of SOSP Proc of ISCA Proc of HotCloud Proc of Super Computing Proc of HPDC Proc of ICDE Proc of Middleware Proc of JSSPP Proc of ICDCS Proc of NOMS Proc of OSDI Proc of EMSOFT Proc of Usenix ATC Proc of NSDI Proc of EuroSys Proc of Workshop on Architectures and Systems for Big Data ACM TAAS 
of under utilized interactive nodes to meet user-speciìed deadlines and minimize cost and energy Our work extends this by focusing on how groups of jobs should be scheduled across a shared cluster in order to both minimize interference and meet job deadlines VIII C ONCLUSIONS Virtualization allows servers to be partitioned but resource multiplexing can still lead to high levels of performance interference This is especially true when mixing latency sensitive applications with data analytic tasks such as Hadoop jobs We have designed MIMP a Minimal Interference Maximal Progress scheduling system that manages both VM CPU scheduling and Hadoop job scheduling to reduce interference and increase overall efìciency MIMP works by exposing more information to both the Hadoop job scheduler and the Xen CPU scheduler By giving these systems information about the priority of different VMs and the resources available on different servers MIMP allows cluster utilization to be safely increased MIMP allows high priority web applications to achieve twice the throughput compared to the default Xen scheduler and has response times nearly identical to running the web application alone Despite the increased variability this causes in Hadoop task completion times MIMP is still able to meet more deadlines than an Earliest Deadline First scheduler and lowers the total execution time by nearly ve hours in one of our experiments We thank the reviewers for their helpful suggestions This work was supported in part by NSF grant CNS-1253575 and the National Natural Science Foundation of China Grant No 61370059 61232009 and Beijing Natural Science Foundation Grant No 4122042 R EFERENCES  X Bu J Rao and C.-z Xu Interference and Locality-a w are Task Scheduling for MapReduce Applications in Virtual Clusters In 
Acknowledgments 
403 


 11    Figure 7: Cost estimated per subsystem \(bar chart on top\of one spacecraft  Small Satellite Cost Model \(SSCM\ based on inputs for a candidate nano-satellite mission \(bottom excel spreadsheet   The SSCM model was then used to calculate the total cost of developing and manufacturing only the first small satellite of mass 10 kg and other specifications listed  Figure 7 The cost calculated for every subsystem and the total cost of $15.08 million in FY 2010 is therefore a function of technological variables like power and pointing and not just mass  To check the sensitivity of technology used to cost we varied some of the input parameters and checked its effect on cost in FY97 $million. Changing the data rate from 10 kbps to 10 MBps to 1 GBps resulted in a cost of $11.35 11.4 and 11.45 million respectively Since COTS products will be used to support the communication link these cost estimates imply that there will be only a 100,000 difference in deploying a radio transmitter 10 kbps\ or deploying an optical transmitter \(1 GBps\ on the 10 kg nano-satellite While previous proposals have certainly supported the availability for laser technologies 50   t h e o p tical d e m o n s tr ati o n s  t h at ar e c u r r en tl y  b ei n g  developed by DLR in Germany and the Aerospace Corporation in the US 51  clea r l y  d e m o n s tr ate  th a t t h e  cost of optical technology is more than that Similarly changing the pointing accuracy from 0.1 0.01 to 0.001 degrees resulted in the cost increasing from FY97 $ 6.45 11.33 and 22.21 million respectively The technology to support 0.1 degrees \(sun sensors\ is different from that to support 0.001 degrees star trackers However current COTS quotations \(e.g. Blue Canyon technologies XACT show that it costs 100,000 for a nanosat star tracker system Integration may cost a few additional thousands but estimating it to 18 million more sounds a bit too much  The SSCM sensitivity study above highlights the need to have cost models that are more sensitive to different technologies and their associated complexities Complexity and risk assessment has been proposed by the Aerospace Corporation in the form of their COBRA model  We used the COBRA model in our next study where the methodology and data sets are detailed in \([39   40    5 2     T h e d ata s et r elati v e to  w h ic h  co m p le x ities  ar e  calculated included 120 DoD and NASA missions from after FY89 excluded launch delays or failures and projects with heavy international cooperation. Complexity drivers include  Table 4  column 1 subsystem technical parameters e.g mass power performance technology choices\ and programmatic factors \(e.g., heritage, level of redundancy, foreign partnership  Forty such parameters are considered that are either continuous e.g mass power and represent a range of values bounded by a minimum and maximum, or discrete such as propulsion type \(none, cold gas, monopropellant bipropellant or ion engine\ that represent a finite number of choices    For our smallsat case study, the factors corresponding to spacecraft complexity as they proposed are listed in Table 4 along with the minimum and maximum value that the component takes within their data set The column  candidate nano-satellite which will be a part of a DSM  different 3D angles from the same ground spot as it formation flies in LEO 53  5 4 55    Fo r  ea ch  f ac to r   the complexity of the nanosat is calculated as a percentage of where the data point corresponding to the nanosat lies with respect to the data points for all the other space missions considered. For discrete data, the discrete rank of the data is assessed and then converted into a percentage The average complexity of the proposed nanosat is calculated to be 21.64 


 12  Table 4: Cost estimated for a spacecraft as a function of the relative complexity of its components with respect to components used in previous missions  Based Risk Assessment \(COBRA\ model. Inputs \(Data in Column 3\ are from a candidate nanosatellite mission    The map between complexity percentile and required mission cost and development time for successful missions green triangles is shown in Figure 8  using a green trend line. The missions plotted are among the 120 studied missions and equations are mentioned within the  attempted cheaper than or faster than this model predicts then there is a large probability of failure as highlighted by the red and yellow crosses on Figure 8  Using the above model the estimated cost for our candidate nanosatellite 10 kg mission is 35.824 million and the estimated development time is 35.074 months The high cost is in keeping with the intuition expressed in the data collection section that the cost of LEO small satellites are driven more by technology than mass so the utility of shrinking the satellite should be critically assessed and avoided if the mission technology is very state of art In such cases, micro satellites would win the performance to cost ratio battle    Figure 8: Predicted mission cost and development time as a function of relative mission complexity with respect to other missions evaluated by the Aerospace Corporation [39    4 0     5 2    M is s io n c o m ple x it y  is  a  function of component complexities as calculated in Table 4 The candidate mission is a LEO satellite measuring passive Earth reflectance as part of a DSM  We ran a sensitivity analysis for the COBRA model by varying the deltaV and pointing accuracy required by the candidate satellite It does a great job in predicting the increase in costs from 1 degree to 0.01 or 0.1 degree, by 


 13  estimating a $ 200-250 increase. It overshoots the COTS quotations by a slight margin but is certainly better than the SSCM estimate of  18 million more When the required delta-V is increased from none to 40 m/s to 80 m/s to 120 m/s the respective costs are estimated to be FY97 $ 35.79, 35.82, 35.85 and 35.88 million. Quotations from a 3D cold gas propulsion system printing company called AustinSat revealed that their 1U propulsion unit capable of providing 40 m/s of delta V costs 100,000 with 6DOF thrusters included and would scale almost linearly as more 1U units are added for 40 m/s of more delta-V  The COTS systems therefore cost more than what the COBRA model predicts. The model can thus be improved and made more suitable for COTS-supported small satellites if COTS data and figures were included in the data set to calculate complexity. Since we do not have the data set only the published Figure 8  we could not make the changes  Since many small satellite missions are collaborations between many organizations, the COBRA model could be improved by adding a foreign partnership complexity factor that captures the number of collaborators not just the nationality For example a recent paper 56   formulated a data supported method of capturing international cooperation related complexity using cyclometric  complexity where CGF  0.917  0.0575*CyclometricNumber and CyclometricNumber  f\(nodes, edges, outputs    Figure 9: Cost growth required to support increasing TRL for any component as published in [57    Small satellites are always pushing the boundaries of technology. It is very probable that some of its component values will fall out of range available from past missions In such a case, cost models of TRL transition such as the one shown in Figure 9  57  s h o u ld  b e in co r p o r ated  in to  the COBRA model for the relevant factors Although TRL transition correlates to the spending it does not follow traditional 80-20 rule The COBRA model also does not capture the structural complexity of a small tightly packed satellite which has been theoretically shown to drive development costs. Structural complexity can be quantified using a simple framework shown in Figure 10 35  34   an d  ca n  b e ea s il y  i n tr o d u ce d  i n  t h e COBRA model via a new factor and recalculating the data fit  Capturing the above development costs is important for small satellites whose costs are driven more by technology than by mass. Again, since we do not have the data set \(only the published Figure 8 we could not make the changes   Figure 10 Structural complexity metric introduced and validated in [35  a nd   3 4    5  C ONCLUSIONS    We identify three major problems with current cost and risk models that limit their direct application to estimating the costs of DSMs They are the absence of reliable learning curve factors small satellite 20 kg costing tools and operations costing  Existing models and methodologies that may be applicable in part to DSMs have been identified and presented using an extensive literature survey We select ed  some appropriate methods and applied them to estimate the cost of small satellites and small satellite DSMs The exercise helped us point out valuable insights and/or inconsistencies in the results with respect to the data We also suggest methods to modify the models so that they become more suitable for small satellite DSMs  As future work the operations cost model and dynamic complexity of the mission is expected to be captured by a Systems Dynamics Model Re sults from model simulations can provide insight into the effect of design and operation decisions on lifecycle cost and risk expected to improve upon the Monte Carlo results The model results can guide the trade-off of cost with performance and can help in the se lection of a final point design for any given DSM 


 14  6  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS   The authors are grateful to the following people for very useful discussions on the topics presented in this paper Steve Tompkins Charles Gatebe and Robin Mauk from NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Tom Segert from Berlin Space Tech, Volker Gass from EPFL/Swiss Space Agency and Daniel Selva from MIT Part of this study was performed under internal NASA GSFC funding  R EFERENCES   1   autonomous and distributed scatter manoeuvres for  Acta Astronaut vol. 82, no. 1, pp 95 109, Jan. 2013 2    mizing the DARPA System F6 Program Value-Centric Design  Proceedings of the AIAA Space Conference Anaheim, California, 2010 3    NASA Spec Publ  vol 6105, 1995 4  H  A p g a   Space Mission Anal Des 3rd Ed El Segundo Calif Microcosm Press Kluwer Acad. Publ  1999  5  L   P   Sar s f ield   The Cosmos on a Shoestring RAND Corporation, 1998 6   n for  AIAA 2006 7506 San Jose, California, 2006 7    Acta Astronaut  vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 1 12, 2010 8  Natio n al R esear c h  C o u n cil  Th e Role of Small Satellites in NASA and Noaa Earth Observation Programs National Academies Press, 2000 9   Space Technol. Int pp. 55 59, 1991 10   smal  Int J Remote Sens vol. 29, no. 15, pp. 4285 4337, 2008 11   A tool for Earth  XXth ISPRS Congress Commission 2004, vol. 4, pp. 12 23 12   urvey of worldwide pico-and nanosatellite missions distributions and  Acta Astronaut vol. 67, no 7, pp. 854 862, 2010 13    Acta Astronaut vol. 74, no. 0, pp. 50 68, May 2012 14  S Nag   J   A   Ho f f m an   a n d  O  L   d e W ec k    Spaceflight Software using SPHERES Zero  Int J Space Technol Manag Innov IJSTMI vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 1 23, 2012 15  S Nag   J   G  Katz   a n d  A   Saen z Oter o     Acta Astronaut  vol 83 no 0 pp 145 174 Feb 2013  16  Y  Xu e  Y  L i J   G u a n g   X  Z h a n g   an d  J   G u o     Int. J. Remote Sens vol 29, no. 15, pp. 4339 4372, 2008 17    Educational Launch of Nanosatellite Providing Routine RideShare Oppor  AIAAUSU Conf Small Satell Aug. 2012 18   CubeSat constellations Secondary launch coverage  2013 IEEE Aerospace Conference 2013, pp. 1 15  19  L   R o s e n b er g   J   Hih n   K  R o u s t an d  K  W ar f ield    the Develop New Projects DNP Implementation   20  J   Hih n   L   R o s e n b er g   K  R o u s t an d  K  W ar f ield       21      22  O  Yo u n o s s i M  A   L o r ell  K  B r an ca to   C   R   C o o k   M Eisman B Fox J C Graser Y Kim R S Leonard S L Pfleeger and J M Sollinger    23  M  V  A r en a  Impossible Certainty Cost Risk Analysis for Air Force Systems  vol 415 Rand Corporation, 2006 24  L   A   Gal w a y   Subjective probability distribution elicitation in cost risk analysis A review  vol 410 Rand Corporation, 2007 25    RAND Corporation, 2008 26   based system architecting of Earth  Institute of Technology Cambridge Massachusetts U.S.A., 2012 27  6 5  A u t h o r s  f r o m  th e A s tr o n au tics  C o m m u n it y   Space Mission Engineering:The New SMAD  First Microcosm Press, 2011 28     Symposium on Optical Science Engineering and Instrumentation 1998, pp. 14 22  29  A   L   W eig el a n d  D  E   Hastin   J Spacecr. Rockets vol. 41, no. 1, pp. 103 110, 2004 30  B   T   Mu r r ay   A   P in to   R   S k eld in g   O  d e W ec k   H  Zhu S Nair N Shougarian K Sinha S 


 15   mplex  Document, 2011 31  L   D y r u d   J   Fen tzk e  G  B u s t B   E r lan d s o n   S Whitely B Bauer S Arnold D Selva K Cahoy  time  Aerospace Conference, 2013 IEEE 2013, pp. 1 13 32  G  B   Sh a w   D  Mil ler   an d  D  E   Ha s ti n g s    Information Network Analysis \(GINA\ Methodology  Aerospace Conference 1999 Proceedings 1999 IEEE  1999 vol 5 pp 301 321  33   design optimization methodology for the conceptual  Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge Massachusetts, U.S.A., 2002 34  A le k s a n d r  A   Ker zh n er   Mic h el D  I n g h a m   Mohammed O Khan Jaime Ramirez Javier De Luis Jeremy Hollman Steven Arestie and David  using Model AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics 2013  35   Complexity Metric for Engineered Complex Systems  Proceedings of the 14th International Dependency and Structure Modeling Conference Kyoto, Japan, 2012 36   The new paradigm  J. Reducing Space Mission Cost vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 73 86, 1998 37  O  C   B r o w n   P   E r em e n k o   an d  P D  C o llo p y   Value-centric design methodologies for fractionated spacecraft Progress summary from phase 1 of the DARPA System F6 program  Defense Technical Information Center, 2009 38    nal Report Apr2010  39   of complexity and cost for Planetary Missions  Aerospace Conference, 2012 IEEE 2012, pp. 1 12 40   based risk assessment of low-cost planetary missions: when is a mission too  Acta Astronaut vol. 52, no. 2 pp. 371 379, 2003 41  M  B o r g ea u d   N  Sc h eid e g g er   M  No ca   G  Roethlisberger F Jordan T Choueiri and N  The First Entirely-Built Swiss Student Satellite with an Earth Observation  Small Satellite Missions for Earth Observation  R Sandau H.-P Roeser and A Valenzuela Eds Springer Berlin Heidelberg 2010 pp. 207 213  42   Analytical Graphics Inc  Onlin   Av ailab le  http://www.agi.com/resources/downloads/data/space craft-digest/. [Accessed: 04-Nov-2013   43  J o h n  D  S ter m a n   Business Dynamics Systems Thinking and Modeling for a Complex World 5th ed Jeffrey J. Shelstad / McGraw-Hill Higher Education 2000  44   time Human-Automation  PhD Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A., 2013 45   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Feb2013  46   Incremental Cost of One or More Copies Quantifying Efficiencies from Building Spacecraft and Instrument Constellatio  AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites 2013, vol. 52, p. 31 47    Space Mission Anal Des 3rd Ed El Segundo Calif Microcosm Press Kluwer Acad. Publ  1999  48   on for Crowdsourcing Spaceflight Software  and STEM  S.M Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A., 2012 49  S Nag   I   Hef f a n   A   Saen z Oter o   an d  M  L y d o n    cs software development Lessons on crowdsourcing and collaborative  Aerospace Conference, 2012 IEEE  2012, pp. 1 17  50  S Nag   E   Go m ez   S Fel ler   J   Gib b s   an d  J    the Google Lunar X-Priz  Aerospace Conference, 2011 IEEE 2011, pp. 1 20 51   Communication and Sensor Demonstration   52    2001 MAPLD Internationa l Conference, Maryland 2001 53   satellite Cluster Formations for Bi-Directional Reflectance Distribution Function  AIAAUSU Conf. Small Satell  Aug. 2013 54  S Nag   K  C ah o y   O  d e W ec k   C   Gate b e  B   Pasquale, G. Georgiev, T. Hewagama, and S. Aslam  onboard Nanosatellite Clusters for Multi-Angular  Proceedings of the AIAA Space Conference San Diego, 2013 55  S Nag   C   K  Gate b e  an d  O  L    Trajectories for Multi-Angular Earth Observation  IEEE Xplore Aerospace Conference 2014  Big Sky Montana, USA, 2014 


 16  56   Increase Cost Estimate Accuracy in Government  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013 57  J aso n  Ha y   J o h n  D  R ee v e s   E lain e Gr e s h a m   J u l ie Williams Predic  AIAA SPACE 2013 Conference and Exposition  0 vols American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2013  B IOGRAPHIES   Sreeja Nag is a PhD candidate in Space Systems Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and  a part-time research fellow at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center  She has a dual SM Candidate in Aeronautics  Astronautics Engineering along with Technology  Policy at MIT. She has summer research experience with NASA JPL in 2008, the European Space Agency \(ESTEC in 2010 and led the SPHERES Zero Robotics Program in 2011. Email sreeja_n@mit.edu                Jacqueline Le Moigne is the Assistant Chief for Technology in the Software Engineering Division at NASA Goddard where she is currently leading a study on Distributed Spacecraft Missions She has  performed extensive work in developing new technologies for remote sensing data analysis e.g image registration high-performance and onboard processing She has published over 100 publications and recently co  Jacqueline.LeMoigne@nasa.gov   Olivier de Weck is a Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology He is also the Executive Director of MIT Production in the Innovation Economy PIE Study and the CoDirector Center for Complex Engineering Systems at KACST and MIT  Email deweck@mit.edu   

















Mohammed Taj, Dwight Day, Ar lie Stonestreet, Tim Sobering Paper Number: 2227; Presentation Number: 8.0201 Finding the Gaps in Space GNC Hardware Adam Greenbaum, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2288; Presentation Number: 8.0202 Technology for a Robotic Asteroid Redirect Mission and Its Extensibility to Future Human Missions John Brophy Paper Number: 2451; Presentation Number: 8.0203 Advanced Launch Vehicle Systems and Technologies NASA's Space Launch System: An Enabling Capability for Discovery Stephen Creech Paper Number: 2014; Presentation Number: 8.0301 A Dual Thrust Axis Lander for Mars Exploration David Masten Paper Number: 2384; Presentation Number: 8.0302 Innovation at ULA: It Really Is Rocket Science Gregory Schiller Paper Number: 2407; Presentation Number: 8.0303 Launch Vehicle Mission Capability Enhancemen t through Global Positioning System Metric Tracking Timothy Gray Paper Number: 2556; Presentation Number: 8.0304 Lateral Autopilot Design Using H\211\366? for Reusable Launch Vehicles Sheelu Jose Paper Number: 2435; Presentation Number: 8.0305 Adaptation of the Morris Method to MultiDimensional Factors for Air-Launch-to-Orbit Separation Henri Sohier, Jean Loup Farges, Lahanier Helene Piet Paper Number: 2566; Presentation Number: 8.0306 Hosted Payloads Concept for an ASRG Hosted Payload Mission Erich Schulze Paper Number: 2462; Presentation Number: 8.0401 Exploiting Hosted Payload Opportunities Surrey's Lessons Learned from OTB and Other Missions Anita Bernie, John Paff ett, Marissa Brummitt Paper Number: 2231; Presentation Number: 8.0402 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 22 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Human Factors & Performanc e Real Time VR Environment for MAJIC A ttitude Control System Development and Implementation Jared Rize, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2090; Presentation Number: 8.0501 Musculoskeletal Human-Spacesuit Interaction Model Ana Diaz, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2156; Presentation Number: 8.0502 Level of Automation and Failure Frequency Ef fects on Simulated Lunar Lander Performance Jessica Marquez, Margarita Ramirez Paper Number: 2285; Presentation Number: 8.0503 Spacecraft Human-Rating: Historical Over view and Implementation Considerations David Klaus Paper Number: 2272; Presentation Number: 8.0504 Pilot Control and Stabilization of a Rate Controlled Vehicle in Hyper-Gravity Torin Clark, Michael Newman, Dan Merfeld Paper Number: 2250; Presentation Number: 8.0505 Dynamic Task Allocation in Operational Sy stems: Issues, Gaps, and Recommendations Aaron Johnson, Kevin Duda, Charles Oman, Tom Sheridan Paper Number: 2087; Presentation Number: 8.0506 The V2Suit \211\333\317Down\211\333 Tracking Algorithm Rebecca Vasquez, Akil Middle ton, Kevin Duda, Dava Newman Paper Number: 2213; Presentation Number: 8.0507 Human Performance with Procedure Automa tion to Manage Spacecraft Systems Debra Schreckenghost, Dorrit Billman, Tod Milam Paper Number: 2477; Presentation Number: 8.0508 A Mission Guided Investigatio n of Operational Functions and User Interface for MAJIC Celena Dopart, Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman Paper Number: 2088; Presentation Number: 8.0509 Modular Bus Technologies, Components and Standardized Spacecraft Reusable, Modular, and Scalable Flight Software L. Jane Hansen, John Hanson Paper Number: 2172; Presentation Number: 8.0601 Development of Attitude Contro l Systems for Modular Spacecraft John Hanson, L. Jane Hansen Paper Number: 2148; Presentation Number: 8.0602 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 23 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


The TET Satellite Bus \226 Futu re Mission Capabilities Anja Nicolai, Stephan Roemer, Silke Eckert Paper Number: 2465; Presentation Number: 8.0603 SMC's Standard Network Adapter for Payloads Garrett Ellis Paper Number: 2544; Presentation Number: 8.0604 Mechanical Systems, Design and Technologies Spin Stabilization Design and Te sting for the Van Allen Probes Simmie Berman, Heather Borowski Weilun Cheng, David Persons Paper Number: 2133; Presentation Number: 8.0701 Evaluation and Test of Different Gear Conc epts for Ka-band Antenn a Pointing Mechanisms Ralf Purschke, Alexander Hoehn Paper Number: 2098; Presentation Number: 8.0702 Europa Clipper Spacecraft Configuration Evolution Alexander Eremenko Paper Number: 2077; Presentation Number: 8.0703 Spacecraft Propulsion and Power Technologies Status of Propulsion and Entry Vehicle Techno logy Development under the NASA ISPT Program David Anderson, Eric Pencil, John Dankanich Paper Number: 2395; Presentation Number: 8.0801 Green Propellant Infusion Mission Program Overview Christopher Mclean, William Deininger, Bryce Unruh Paper Number: 2150; Presentation Number: 8.0802 Description of the Green Propellant In fusion Mission \(GPI M\sion System William Deininger Paper Number: 2627; Presentation Number: 8.0803 Applications of Micro-Cathode Arc Thruster as In-space Propulsion Subsystem for PhoneSat Samudra Haque, Gazulla Oriol Tintore, George Teel Greenfield Trinh, Eddie Ur ibe, Andres Dono Perez Michael Keidar, Elwood Agasid Paper Number: 2324; Presentation Number: 8.0804 Pulse Phase Modulation for On-Off Thruster Pair Runle Du, Jiaqi Liu Paper Number: 2069; Presentation Number: 8.0805 Autonomous Space Exploration Systems and Technologies Onboard and Self-Contained Landing Site Selection for Planet ary Landers/Hoppers Babak Cohanim, Jeffrey Hoffman, Tye Brady Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 24 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2028; Presentation Number: 8.0901 Vision-Based Terrain-Relative Navigation and Hazard Detection Onboard a Terrestrial Rocket Ted Steiner, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2101; Presentation Number: 8.0902 Morpheus Vertical Test Bed Flight Testing Jennifer Devolites Paper Number: 2562; Presentation Number: 8.0903 Rocket Validation of the ALHAT Autonomous GNC Flight System Steve Paschall, Tye Brady Paper Number: 2045; Presentation Number: 8.0904 New Technologies and Instruments for Scientific Balloon Missions The Use of 3D Printing to Enable High Altitude Balloon Missions Jeremy Straub Paper Number: 2039; Presentation Number: 8.1001 Rapid Development of Balloon-Borne CDH Syst em with a Focus on COTS and Open Source Software Zachary Dischner, Kevin Dinkel, Jedediah Di ller, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2345; Presentation Number: 8.1002 Inexpensive Balloon-Borne Observator ies Using Modified COTS Telescopes Eliot Young, Robert Woodruff Paper Number: 2284; Presentation Number: 8.1003 Development of Meter-scale O-shaped and U-shap ed Oscillating Heat Pipes for GAPS Shun Okazaki, Hideyuki Fuke, Hiroyuki Ogawa Paper Number: 2188; Presentation Number: 8.1004 Development of a Meteorology and Remote Sens ing Experimental Platform: The LAICAnSat-1 Pedro Nehme, Renato Borges, Simone Battistini, Chantal Cappelletti Paper Number: 2159; Presentation Number: 8.1005 High Energy Replicated Optics to Explore the Sun: Flight Overview and Astrophysical Pointing Jessica Gaskin, Steven Christe, Ho dge Colleen Wilson, Albert Shih Brian Ramsey, Jeff Apple, Kurtis Dietz Paper Number: 2216; Presentation Number: 8.1006 A Solar Aspect System for the HEROES Mission Steven Christe, Albert Sh ih, Marcello Rodriguez, Kyle Gregory, Alexander Cramer, Melissa Edgerton Brian O'connor, Alexander Sobey, Jessica Gaskin Paper Number: 2400; Presentation Number: 8.1007 10 Meter Sub-Orbital Large Balloon Reflector \(LBR Christopher Walker Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 25 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2630; Presentation Number: 8.1008 First Results from the Hard X-ray Polarimeter X-Calibur Matthias Beilicke Paper Number: 2205; Presentation Number: 8.1009 Design and Performance of the BRRI SON UV-VIS Fine Pointing System Jedediah Diller, Kevin Dinkel, Zachary Dischner, Nicholas Truesdale, Eliot Young Paper Number: 2308; Presentation Number: 8.101 Enabling Systems and Technolo gies for CubeSat/Smallsats A Reusable Command and Data Handling Sy stem for University CubeSat Missions Shaina Johl, Gokul Anandayuvaraj, Sean Horton Paper Number: 2403; Presentation Number: 8.1101 Design and Scientific Return of a Miniaturized Particle Telescope Onboard the CSSWE CubeSat Quintin Schiller Paper Number: 2408; Presentation Number: 8.1102 Fractionated and Distributed Systems Satellite-to-Satellite Optimization Approa ch for Opportunistic Inter-Satellite Links Cruz Ignasi Lluch, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2270; Presentation Number: 8.1201 Air Vehicle Systems and Technologies UAV Systems & Autonomy Modeling, Analysis and Fabrication of a Thru st Vectoring Spherical VTOL Aerial Vehicle Sagar Bose, Shibu Clement, Rohan Ve rma, Aditya Tripathi, Kriti Garuda Paper Number: 2097; Presentation Number: 9.0202 Aerodynamic Analysis of BlimPlane- a Conc eptual Hybrid UAV for Venus Exploration Mofeez Alam, Kumar Ashish, Sanjay Limaye Paper Number: 2313; Presentation Number: 9.0203 Aggressive Navigation Using High-S peed Natural Feature Point Tracking Christopher Raabe, John Vian, Emad Saad Paper Number: 2329; Presentation Number: 9.0204 Development of a Multipurpose Tactic al Surveillance System Using UAV's Rodrigo Rangel Paper Number: 2251; Presentation Number: 9.0205 A New Hybrid Motor Glider-Quadrotor MAV for In-Flight/V-STOL Launching Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 26 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2501; Presentation Number: 9.0206 SquidCop: Design and Evaluation of a No vel Quadrotor MAV for In-\225\302\342ight Launching Air-Ground Missions Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernandes, Marcelo Becker, Fernando M. Catalano, Fabio Zanini Joao L. E. M. Nobrega, Caio Martins Paper Number: 2500; Presentation Number: 9.0207 Development of a Circulation Control Wing for UAVs Konstantinos Kanistras, Matthew Rutherford, Kimon Valavanis Paper Number: 2439; Presentation Number: 9.0208 Comparing the Economic and Regulatory State of UAS & Commercial Space Flight Harrison Wolf Paper Number: 2555; Presentation Number: 9.0209 Modeling of Real-Time Flight Control System for Small Coaxial Helicopter Seong Jin Lee Paper Number: 2530; Presentation Number: 9.021 Quantification of High Level Safety Crit eria for Civil Unmanned Aircraft Systems Xun Lin, Neale Fulton, Mark Horn Paper Number: 2619; Presentation Number: 9.0211 Three-dimensional Path Planning for Unmann ed Aerial Vehicles Based on Fluid Flow Xiao Liang Paper Number: 2707; Presentation Number: 9.0212 Airborne Imaging for Cultural Heritage Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2717; Presentation Number: 9.0213 Artificial Homeostasis for Vehicle Contro l Architecture of Unmanned Spacecraft Carlos Insaurralde, Emil Vassev Paper Number: 2543; Presentation Number: 9.0214 Multi Disciplinary Optimization Design of Modern Airship Based on Genetic Algorithm Masood Mayanbari Paper Number: 2647; Presentation Number: 9.0215 Aircraft Systems & Avionics Stochastic 4D Trajectory Optimizati on for Aircraft Conflict Resolution Yoshinori Matsuno, Takeshi Tsuchiya Paper Number: 2207; Presentation Number: 9.0301 Estimating the Internal Volume Requirement in a Multivariate Design Synthesis of a BWB Aircraft Paulinus Okonkwo Paper Number: 2281; Presentation Number: 9.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 27 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


A Novel Pump Design for an Efficient and Compact Electro-Hydraulic Actuator Gabriele Altare, Andrea Vacca, Carl Richter Paper Number: 2651; Presentation Number: 9.0304 Short-Term Turning in Presence of Wind as a Trajectory Optimization Problem Kamran Turkoglu Paper Number: 2652; Presentation Number: 9.0305 Air Vehicle Flight Controls Optimal Position Transfer Analysis of Stratospheric Airs hip in Wind Field Zhou Jianghua, Li Zhaojie, Sheng Wang, Jiang Luhua Paper Number: 2071; Presentation Number: 9.0401 Analyses and Comparisons for Several Flight Co ntrol Configuration of Stratospheric Airship Jing Gang Miao, Fan Wang, Yan Chu Yang, Xiang Qiang Zhang Paper Number: 2142; Presentation Number: 9.0402 Software and Computing Computational Modeling Multi-resolution Rapid Prototyping of Vehicle Cooling Systems Maciej Pindera Paper Number: 2019; Presentation Number: 10.0101 Feature Selective Validation Rohit Nijhawan Paper Number: 2024; Presentation Number: 10.0102 Designing a Fuzzy Logic Controller for the Reyn olds Number in a Blowdown Supersonic Wind Tunnel Shahrbabaki Amin Nazarian, Ali Shahriyari, Manshadi Mojtaba Dehghan Paper Number: 2146; Presentation Number: 10.0103 Bird Strike Analysis of Jet Engine Fan Blade Narender Lakshman, Ratnesh Raj, Yagnavalkya Mukkamala Paper Number: 2158; Presentation Number: 10.0104 Ammonia-Water Solution Clou d Modeling of Gas Giant Planets via Phase Equilibrium Calculations Virgil Adumitroaie Paper Number: 2513; Presentation Number: 10.0105 Computational Modeling of Chan nel Length Modulation in Ca rbon Nanotube Field Effect Transistors Adam Bushmaker Paper Number: 2538; Presentation Number: 10.0106 Flow Regimes in an Air Conditio ned Measuring Equipment Laboratory Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 28 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Ahmed Farag Paper Number: 2691; Presentation Number: 10.0107 A Multiscale Turbulence Prediction and Al ert System for Airports in Hilly Regions Adil Rasheed, Karstein S\314\374rli Paper Number: 2679; Presentation Number: 10.0108 Software Engineering Autonomous Real Time Requirements Tracing George Plattsmier, Howard Stetson Paper Number: 2100; Presentation Number: 10.0201 TSEpoch: An Object Oriented Design for Representing Time Lawrence Brown, Jon Vandegriff Paper Number: 2348; Presentation Number: 10.0202 Open Source RTOS Implementation for on Board Computer \(OBC\SAT-2 Bheema Rajulu, Sankar Dasiga, Naveen Iyer Paper Number: 2413; Presentation Number: 10.0203 On Development of Hilbert-Huan g Transform Data Processing Real Time System with 2-D Capabilities Semion Kizhner Paper Number: 2703; Presentation Number: 10.0204 A Test Scripting Framework for Automated Flig ht SW V&V Testing: Van Allen Probes Lessons Learned Jeremiah Finnigan Paper Number: 2010; Presentation Number: 10.0205 Confidence in Spacecraft So ftware: Continuous Process Improvement in Requirements Verification Kristin Wortman, Maria Spezio Paper Number: 2072; Presentation Number: 10.0206 Testing of Safety-Critical Systems An Aerospace La unch Application Ahmed Gario, Anneliese Andrews, Seana Hagerman Paper Number: 2495; Presentation Number: 10.0207 Software Architecture and Design Abstraction of Abstraction \226 an Outline of General Schedulin g Platform for Space Missions Jinjiang Xing Paper Number: 2655; Presentation Number: 10.0302 The Study of the Virtual Machine fo r Space Real-Time Embedded Systems Sooyeon Kang, Hyungshin Kim Paper Number: 2695; Presentation Number: 10.0303 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 29 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Robust and Modular On-board Architec ture for Future Robotic Spacecraft Steffen Jaekel, Martin Stelzer, Hans Herpel Paper Number: 2376; Presentation Number: 10.0304 Model-based Systems and Software Engineering TES' Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE\FACETM Applications Stephen Simi Paper Number: 2110; Presentation Number: 10.0401 SOS for SoS: A New Paradigm fo r System of Systems Modeling Matthew Hause Paper Number: 2320; Presentation Number: 10.0402 MBSE without a Process-Based Data Architecture Is Just a Set of Random Characters Robert Crain Paper Number: 2111; Presentation Number: 10.0403 Model-Based GN&C Simulation and Flight Soft ware Development for Orion Missions beyond LEO Ryan Odegard, Zoran Milenkovic Paper Number: 2128; Presentation Number: 10.0404 A Model-Driven Visualization Tool for Use wi th Model-Based Systems Engineering Projects Kathryn Trase, Eric Fink Paper Number: 2192; Presentation Number: 10.0405 Integrated Model-Based Systems Engineering MBSE\d to Simulation of the RAX CubeSat Mission David Kaslow, Sara Spangelo, Grant Soremekun, Hongman Kim Paper Number: 2289; Presentation Number: 10.0406 New HiL Evaluation of an H-In f Controller on the Stabilization of a MAV in Flight Simulation Rafael Coronel B. Sampaio, Andr\351 C. Hernan des, Marcelo Becker Fernando M. Catalano Paper Number: 2521; Presentation Number: 10.0407 Model-Based Requirements Generation Brian London Paper Number: 2584; Presentation Number: 10.0408 Automatic Code Generation for Spacecra ft Attitude Determination and Control Bryce Carpenter Paper Number: 2686; Presentation Number: 10.0409 Implementing Artificial Intelligence for Aerospace Integrating Artificial Intelligence Techniqu es to Generate Ground Station Schedules Costas Tsatsoulis, Michele Van Dyne Paper Number: 2103; Presentation Number: 10.0501 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 30 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Missile Trajectory Optimization Usin g a Modified Ant Colony Algorithm Zachary Kiyak, Timothy Ledlow Paper Number: 2185; Presentation Number: 10.0502 Missile System Design Using a Hybrid Evolving Swarm Algorithm Timothy Ledlow, Zachary Kiyak Paper Number: 2225; Presentation Number: 10.0503 Distributed Multi-Agent Systems \226 a Litera ture Survey and Inquisitive Discussion Christopher Elliott Paper Number: 2504; Presentation Number: 10.0504 Star Tracker Orientation Optimization Using Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm \(NSGA Fabricio Carvalho, Francisco Salazar Paper Number: 2616; Presentation Number: 10.0505 Human-Computer Interaction Exploration with Live Stereoscopic 3D Video in Mixed Reality Environments Jason Kimball, Tom Wypych Paper Number: 2347; Presentation Number: 10.0601 Limitations of Crowdsourcing Using the EMS1998 Scale in Remote Disaster Sensing Andrew Huynh, Michael Eguchi Albert Lin, Ronald Eguchi Paper Number: 2602; Presentation Number: 10.0602 An EMG Enhanced Impedance and Force Control Framework for Telerobot Operation in Space Ning Wang, Chenguang Yang Michael Lyu, Zhijun Li Paper Number: 2675; Presentation Number: 10.0603 Cloud Computing Secure Hybrid Cloud Computing: Approach and Use Cases Kapil Bakshi Paper Number: 2078; Presentation Number: 10.0701 Cloud Computing for Geodetic Imaging Da ta Processing, Analysis, and Modeling Andrea Donnellan, Jay Parker, Jun Wang, Yu Ma, Marlon Pierce Paper Number: 2223; Presentation Number: 10.0702 A Survivability-Centered Rese arch Agenda for Cloud Comp uting Supported ERM Systems Zhanshan \(Sam Paper Number: 2696; Presentation Number: 10.0703 Diagnostics, Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM PHM for Aerospace Subsystems, Components and Structures Uncertainty in Prognostics: Computat ional Methods and Practical Challenges Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 31 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Shankar Sankararaman, Kai Goebel Paper Number: 2338; Presentation Number: 11.0101 Current/Pressure Transducer Application of Model-Based Prognostics Using Steady State Conditions Christopher Teubert, Matthew Daigle Paper Number: 2323; Presentation Number: 11.0102 Prognostics for Electronics and Avionic Systems Universal Auto-Calibration for a Rapid Batte ry Impedance Spectrum Measurement Device John Morrison, William Morrison Paper Number: 2030; Presentation Number: 11.0201 Integrated Diagnostics and Time to Maintenanc e Estimation for Complex Engineering Systems Mohammad Azam, David Kleinman, Somnath Deb, Deepak Haste, Suvasri Mandal Paper Number: 2642; Presentation Number: 11.0202 Algorithms and Advanced Concepts for Diagnostics and PHM Automatic Systems Diagnosis without Behavioral Models Rui Abreu Paper Number: 2162; Presentation Number: 11.0401 The Use of Data Signatures in Condition Based Maintenance Plus Charles Crabb Paper Number: 2674; Presentation Number: 11.0402 Design Attributes for Diagnostics and Prognostics Health Monitoring Requirements Elicitation via House of Quality Gianluca Nicchiotti Paper Number: 2473; Presentation Number: 11.0601 Total Ownership Cost Reduction for Complex Sy stems through the Design and Application of CBM Jeffrey Banks Paper Number: 2565; Presentation Number: 11.0602 PHM Technologies for Reliability and System Maintenance J69-T-25A Engine Comp onent Failure Analysis Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2443; Presentation Number: 11.0701 Analyzing T-53 Series Engines Defect Trends through Maintenance History Irfan Manarvi Paper Number: 2446; Presentation Number: 11.0702 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 32 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Systems Health Mana g ement for Space Systems and Operations Model-Based Fault Management for Spacecraft Autonomy Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Zetocha, Louis Breger Paper Number: 2026; Presentation Number: 11.0801 Maturation of Health Management Technologies via Ground/Flight Testing and Research Robust Monitoring of Turbofan Sensors Jerome Lacaille Paper Number: 2059; Presentation Number: 11.1001 Application of Model-based Prognost ics to a Pneumatic Valves Testbed Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni, George Gorospe Paper Number: 2293; Presentation Number: 11.1002 PHM for Astronauts and Pilots Performance Assessment & Motion Planning Optimization in a Su rgical Trainer for Potential Space Use Aakarsh Rao, Minsik Hong, Akash Shankaran, Jerzy Rozenblit, Wolfgang Fink Paper Number: 2511; Presentation Number: 11.1101 Planning a Pilot Project on the ISS for Crew Health Management & Maintenance beyond LEO Wolfgang Fink, Alexandre Popov, Andrew Hess Paper Number: 2680; Presentation Number: 11.1102 Real-time Online Health Analytics for Interplanetary Space Missions J. Mikael Eklund, Carolyn Mc Gregor Paper Number: 2604; Presentation Number: 11.1103 Personal Health Care and Corresponding Techno logy with Prognostic Capability. Issues and Challenges Olha Kevorkova, Alexandre Popov Paper Number: 2649; Presentation Number: 11.1104 Portable System to Monitor Astronaut Ocul ar Health and the De velopment of the VIIP Syndrome Wolfgang Fink, David Hilmers, Mark Tarbell Paper Number: 2657; Presentation Number: 11.1105 Probabilistic Design for Reliability of Aerospace Electronics Application of Multi-Parametric Boltzma nn-Arrhrnius-Zhurkov Model in Aerospace Optoelectronics Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2009; Presentation Number: 11.1201 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 33 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Aerospace Electronic Packaging: Thermal St ress in Bi- and Tri-Material Assemblies Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2015; Presentation Number: 11.1202 Prediction of Remaining Useful Life of Ball-Gr id-Array Interconnections from Testing on Board Level Laurent Bechou, Derigny David Gucik Paper Number: 2126; Presentation Number: 11.1203 Utilizing Confidence Bounds in Failure Mode Effects Analysis \(FMEA\d Risk Assessment Marc Banghart Paper Number: 2114; Presentation Number: 11.1204 Reliability Testing for Efficien t Validation and Qualification Joseph Bernstein Paper Number: 2049; Presentation Number: 11.1205 HALT, FOAT, and Their Role in Making a Viable Device into a Reliable Product Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2050; Presentation Number: 11.1206 Using Physics of Failure to Predict System Level Reliability for Avionic Electronics Greg Caswell Paper Number: 2053; Presentation Number: 11.1207 Injection-Coupled Devices \(ICDs\peration Pr inciple, Applications Design-for-Reliability Konstantin Tapero, Victor Murashev Pavel Ivshin, Sergey Legotin, Andrey Krasnov, Dmitry Elnikov Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2157; Presentation Number: 11.1208 Improved Methods for Development of High Reliability Electronics Jue Li Paper Number: 2183; Presentation Number: 11.1209 Long Term In-vacuum Reliability Testing of 980nm Laser Diode Pump Modules for Space Applications Laurent Bechou Paper Number: 2165; Presentation Number: 11.121 Some Major Guiding Principles to Make Future Manned Missions to Mars Safe and Reliable Jean Marc Salotti, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2083; Presentation Number: 11.1211 Designing with Consideration of the Human Fact or: Changing the Paradigm for Higher Safety Sylvain Hourlier, Ephraim Suhir Paper Number: 2614; Presentation Number: 11.1212 PHM for Autonomous Systems A Battery Health Monitoring Framework for Planetary Rovers Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 34 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Matthew Daigle, Chetan Kulkarni Paper Number: 2291; Presentation Number: 11.1301 PHM for Propulsion Systems Fusing an Ensemble of Divers e Prognostic Life Predictions Oliver Laslett, Zaidan Martha Arbayani Bin, Robert Harr ison, Andrew Mills Paper Number: 2191; Presentation Number: 11.1401 Ground and Space Operations Spacecraft Development and F light Operations:  Challenges Successes, Failures and Lessons Learned Redesign of CloudSat's Maneuver s for Robust Delta-V Operations Ian Gravseth Paper Number: 2131; Presentation Number: 12.0101 ARTEMIS Operations \226 Experi ences and Lessons Learned Manfred Bester Paper Number: 2464; Presentation Number: 12.0102 Juno Spacecraft Operations Lessons Learned for Early Cruise Mission Phases Jeff Lewis Paper Number: 2554; Presentation Number: 12.0103 Changing the Paradigm GSFC's Role in th e MAVEN Mission. Lessons Learned from the MOS/GDS Effort John Hughes, Rosa Carlos Gomez, Brian Thibaudeau Francis Wasiak, Agustin Alfonzo, Juan Cifuentes Paper Number: 2705; Presentation Number: 12.0104 Design of a Spacecraft I&T Facility at the John s Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory William Liggett Paper Number: 2200; Presentation Number: 12.0105 Flight/Ground Systems, Mission Planning and Operations Careful and Accurate Placement of Avionics Boxes during Maintenance of Flight Hardware Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2361; Presentation Number: 12.0201 Design and Development of a Free-Floati ng Hexrotor UAV for 6-DOF Maneuvers Evan Kaufman, Kiren Caldwell, Daewon Lee, Taeyoung Lee Paper Number: 2527; Presentation Number: 12.0202 Using Vicon Bodybuilder and Plug-In-Gait to Generate L5/S1 Angles, Forces and Moments Damon Stambolian, Shihab Asfour, Moataz Eltoukhy Paper Number: 2656; Presentation Number: 12.0205 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 35 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


MAVEN Information Security Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance \(GRC Learned Eduardo Takamura, Kevin Mangum, Ro sa Carlos Gomez Francis Wasiak Paper Number: 2700; Presentation Number: 12.0206 Aerospace Aircraft Information Display System for Flight Operations in ND Ronald Marsh Paper Number: 2212; Presentation Number: 12.0207 Managing Life Cycle Cost and Risk - Affordability Operability, Sustainability, and Automation A Critical Analysis of Additive Manufacturi ng Technologies for Aerospace Applications Atin Angrish Paper Number: 2601; Presentation Number: 12.0301 Human Space Flight Operations and Processing Space Shuttle Launch Probability Analysis: Un derstanding History So We Can Predict the Future Grant Cates Paper Number: 2502; Presentation Number: 12.0401 Payload and Instrument Operations and Processing Cold Atom Laboratory Mission System Design Melissa Soriano, Anita Sengupta, Kristen Virkler Paper Number: 2084; Presentation Number: 12.0501 Extreme Environment SImulation - a New Capability to Simulate Venus and Other Planetary Bodies Tibor Kremic Paper Number: 2353; Presentation Number: 12.0502 Management, Systems Engineering and Cost System Simulation and Verification Response Surface Based Performance Anal ysis of an Air-Defense Missile System Kerem Gunaydin, Tayfun \307imen Paper Number: 2208; Presentation Number: 13.0101 Modeling and Simulation of Asteroid Retrieval Using a Flexible Capture Mechanism Havard Grip, Jonathan Cameron, Calvin Kuo Steven Myint, Masahiro Ono, Marco Quadrelli Paper Number: 2488; Presentation Number: 13.0102 Analysis of Rover Transmission Interruption Guinian Feng Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 36 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Paper Number: 2585; Presentation Number: 13.0103 Risk Management: Application and Lessons Learned Low-Cost, Risk-Reduction Testing of Class D Spacecraft Photovoltaic Systems Joshua Forgione Paper Number: 2605; Presentation Number: 13.0201 A Practical Application of a Systems Engineering Process in Space Avionics Design and Development Patrick Phelan Paper Number: 2645; Presentation Number: 13.0202 Cost and Schedule Tools, Methods and Processes Historical Mass, Power, Schedule & Cost Growth for NASA Science Instruments Robert Bitten, Stephen Shinn Paper Number: 2107; Presentation Number: 13.0301 Life-cycle Cost Simulation of a New Implemen tation Process of Government Space Systems Paul Speth, Paul Blessner, Tim Blackburn Paper Number: 2240; Presentation Number: 13.0302 Exploring Classification Algorithms for Early Mission Formulation Cost Estimation Net Marc Sanchez, Daniel Selva, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar Paper Number: 2304; Presentation Number: 13.0303 NASA Instrument Cost Model for Expl orer-like Mission Instruments \(NICM-E Joseph Mrozinski, Agahi Hamid Habib, George Fox Paper Number: 2537; Presentation Number: 13.0304 Enterprise Modeling for Cubesats Louise Anderson, Christopher Lo we, David Kaslow, Eric Sudano Rose Yntema, Sharanabasaweshwara Asundi, Sara Spangelo Paper Number: 2341; Presentation Number: 13.0305 Cost and Risk Analysis of Small Satel lite Constellations for Earth Observation Sreeja Nag, Jacqueline Le Moigne, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2459; Presentation Number: 13.0306 FTE Tool, a Practical Tool for Analyzing St affing Levels and Cost across Missions Justin Mc Neill Paper Number: 2279; Presentation Number: 13.0307 Management Tools, Methods and Processes The Legacy of Faster-Better-Cheaper: Too Much Risk or Over-reaction to Failure Merrill Robin Dillon, Peter Madsen Paper Number: 2017; Presentation Number: 13.0401 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 37 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Risk-Based Space System Design: A Novel Prob abilistic Approach to Design Risk for Small Satellites Alessandra Babuscia, Kar Ming Cheung Paper Number: 2091; Presentation Number: 13.0402 Collaborative Engineering in Competitive Environments: Th e PTSS Integrated Systems Engineering Team James Leary, Patrick Stadte r, Patrick Binning, David Durey, Jae Heiner, Stephen Kendrick, Dan Schwab Dana Southwood Paper Number: 2130; Presentation Number: 13.0403 Model Linking to Improve Visibility and Re usability of Models during Space System Development Meenakshi Deshmukh, Ren\351 Schwarz, Lopez Rosa Paris Paper Number: 2224; Presentation Number: 13.0404 Boeing's 702 Product Line : Sy stem Engineering a Cost Effective Product Portfolio Strategy Richard Milford Paper Number: 2402; Presentation Number: 13.0405 NASA's New Space Flight Project Requirements Earlier Definition for Later Cost Stability Jeffery Webster Paper Number: 2549; Presentation Number: 13.0406 Using Monte Carlo Simulation as Support for Decision Making While Negotiating a PBL Contract Jan Block Paper Number: 2668; Presentation Number: 13.0407 Using Organizational Messages to Improve the Recognition of Near-Miss Events on Projects Merrill Robin Dillon, Catherine Tinsley Paper Number: 2016; Presentation Number: 13.0408 Mission Modeling, Concept Optimization and Concurrent Design Multi-stakeholder Interactive Simulati on for Federated Satellite Systems Paul Grogan, Alessandro Aliakbargolkar, Olivier De Weck Paper Number: 2163; Presentation Number: 13.0501 Remote Sensing Satellite System Overall Effectiveness Analysis and Modeling Abou Bakr Elhady Paper Number: 2671; Presentation Number: 13.0502 Deep Space Navigation Mission Design and Analysis Tool Prather Ksenia Kolcio, Paul Graven Paper Number: 2023; Presentation Number: 13.0503 Systems Architecture, Engineeri ng and System of Systems Optimization of a Small Sate llite Tridyne Propulsion System Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 38 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


Brian Cohen, Robert Legge Paper Number: 2036; Presentation Number: 13.0601 Experiments in Knowledge-intensive System Architecting: Interactive Architecture Optimization Daniel Selva Paper Number: 2217; Presentation Number: 13.0602 Computer-aided Design & A ssessment of Disaggregate Space System Architectures Robert Thompson Paper Number: 2214; Presentation Number: 13.0603 In-Space Transportation Infrastructure Arch itecture Decisions Using a Weighted Graph Approach Peter Davison, Bruce Cameron Paper Number: 2257; Presentation Number: 13.0604 Trade Space Evaluation of Ascent and Return Ar chitectures for a Mars Sample Return Mission Farah Alibay, Zachary Bailey Paper Number: 2298; Presentation Number: 13.0605 Technology Transfer and Commercialization NASA Innovation Ecosystem: Host to a Go vernment Technology Innovation Network Jill Hardash Paper Number: 2570; Presentation Number: 13.0701 Consideration of Risk versus Reward in Balancing Technology Portfolios Richard Terrile, Andrea Belz Paper Number: 2639; Presentation Number: 13.0702 Promoting \(and Provoking The Politics of Space Launch: All Launch Systems Are Not Nominal Mark Bitterman Paper Number: 2392; Presentation Number: 13.0801 Students Touch Space in Zero Robotics Pr ogramming Competition with Free Downloadable Curriculum Jenny Liu Paper Number: 2673; Presentation Number: 13.0802 From STEM to STEAM: Towards Aerospace Partnerships with Cu ltural Heritage Diagnostics Ashley Richter Paper Number: 2598; Presentation Number: 13.0803 Table of Contents file:///L:/JOBS/563 35_IEEE AC/HTML CD/HTML/data/toc.htm 39 of 39 5/27/2014 2:12 PM 


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


