  Enabling Distributed Model Management Using Semantic Web Technologies  Amit V. Deokar Dakota State University Madison, SD 57042 amit.deokar@dsu.edu Omar F. El-Gayar Dakota State University Madison, SD 57042 omar.el-gayar@dsu.edu   Abstract  In today s increasingly dynamic and competitive business environment, organizations strive to leverage their information resources to gain and sustain competitive advantage. Decision models as knowledge objects encapsulating problem situations, as well as means for leveraging information stored in corporate data warehouses, have positioned such models as an organizational resource that need to be managed, shared 
and re-used. Recent developments in distributed information technologies and the increasing reliance on such technologies by organization requires that model management accommodates today s distribute infrastructure landscape In this paper, we leverage recent developments in semantic web technologies to enable model management functions in a distributed and heterogeneous environment The proposed architecture leverages OWL to represent models at various levels of abstraction as well as pertinent problem domain, OWL-S to semantically annotate decision models represented as web services and SWRL to facilitate model querying. Model selection and composition are used to illustrate the applicability of the architecture to model management functions in a 
distributed setting   1. Introduction  Over the past decade, organizations have become increasingly focused on managing core competencies in order to gain better competitive advantage, leading to outsourcing of other related competencies. These globalization trends have created complex and dynamic work environments with exacerbated information management challenges. Organizational knowledge assets such as decision models and data need to be managed in a highly effective and efficient manner to predict key outcomes and performance indicators. Moreover, in 
today s digital world, organizations need to meet the additional challenges of conducting business electronically, while productively managing both inter and intra-organizational resources. Together, the demands of operating in distributed work environments, virtually collaborating with employees and partner organizations have underscored the need for research on distributed decision support technologies These technologies play an important role in enabling the decision-makers by allowing them to focus on making decisions rather than being heavily involved in gathering data, and conceiving 
and selecting analytical decision models Distributed model management systems \(DMMS\ are a particular class of distributed decision support systems with the focus on managing decision models throughout the modeling lifecy odels are es s e n tiall y codi f i ed  problem formulations, amenable to problem solving techniques such as linear programming or simple linear regression. Model instances represent specific decision making situations created by instantiating model schemas with appropriate data, and are amenable to computational execution using model solvers to determine model solutions. In certain cases, one or more solutions may 
exist, while many other cases, there may not be a feasible solution to the decision problem at hand. Examples of such models include demand forecasting in a customer service center, production planning to decide optimal product quantities to manufacture, transportation model to deliver the products to the clients under the constraints of time and cost Given that model sharing and reuse is one of the primary goals of model management \(MM\vities, it is important to develop a model management framework supporting common underlying semantics for model representation and reasoning. Additionally, developing 
new or adopting existing standards is a key to widespread adoption of such a framework in industry. From a computational perspective, Web services have emerged over the past decade as a standards-based mechanism to describe, encode, publish, retrieve, and compose computational entities such as decision models  a model representation perspective, markup languages like Structured Modeling Markup Language \(SMML\ [4  have been recently proposed to facilitate common structural agreement and representation of models. Most recently, semantic web technologies such as ontologies 
and associated reasoning tools and techniques have seen a variety of applications in providing enriched semantics to knowledge objects. Decision models as knowledge objects are a prime candidate for application of such techniques In this paper, we focus on enabling distributed model management through the use of semantic web Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


  technologies. The proposed architecture emphasizes the applicability of different semantic web techniques for different model management activities The remainder of the paper is organized as follows Sections 2 and 3 provide background on distributed model management and relevant semantic web technologies respectively. Section 4 describes semantic representation of models and services based on ontologies. Section 5 presents the proposed architecture, followed by example application scenarios in Section 6. Finally, Section 7 concludes the articles with a summary discussion  2. Distributed Model Management  Model management has its roots in management science and operations research domains. Since 1980 research in this area has been ongoing to support different model management functionalities including model representation, model manipulation, model selection model composition, solution computation, result information display and analysis. A comprehensive review of these functionalities can be found in   As noted earlier, with increased globalization distributed model management has drawn attention from IS researchers beginning mid-1990s. Some of the approaches leveraging distributed computing advances are noted below. Bhargava ed a w e b based architecture for sharing decision models prototyped as DecisionNet application. The main idea is that of sharing models by publishing and retrieving them through a centralized registry mechanism, similar to yellow pages, by model providers and consumers. Dolk  rop os ed a data w a reh o u s e bas e d app roach f o r m odel  storage. It utilizes the structured modeling approach proposed by Geoffrion c ri bi n g  m odel s Huh and Kim [10, 11 prop os ed a f r a m e w ork f o r dis t ribu ted  collaborative model management, emphasizing coordination and propagation of changes in a model base in real-time Models as loosely coupled components delivering specific functionality can be conceptualized as a service Likewise, a service as an entity abstracting underlying logic can be considered as a model. A duality between models and services has been noted by Deokar and ElGaya i t h res p ect to re u s e, abs t raction  au to n o m y   loose coupling, statelessness, composability, and discoverability. This analogy and duality between models and services indicates a potential for significant synergistic development between model management and service-oriented technologies [1  a s no t e d b y so m e o f  the following recent advances. Iy tl y  proposed a web services architecture for model sharing and reuse of spreadsheet models, while Ezechukwu et al  rop os ed an arch itec t u r e f o r su pportin g di s t ribu ted  optimization over the Internet. Madhusudan presented a framework for distributed model management based on web services. The framework utilizes the integrated Service Planning and Execution \(ISP&E for composing web services. Recently, Deokar and ElGaya e n t ed a s e m a ntic w e b s e r v ices bas e d  architecture for model management systems The proposed architecture builds on this past research The two novel characteristics of this architecture include 1\ly distributed nature of the architecture, where models as well as different model management functionalities are provided as services, \(2\ancing model and service descriptions with semantic web technologies. The former characteristic relieves the decision maker of performing computationally expensive operations by merely invoking them through a thin client interface. The later characteristic allows reasoning about models in an intelligent manner to support the goals of model sharing and reuse  3. Semantic Web Technologies  3.1 Knowledge representation and ontologies Decision models are knowledge objects that capture valuable organizational know-how at operational, tactical and strategic levels. In order to create computer supported environments such as intelligent decision support systems that encapsulate these models to solve business problems it is imperative that their representation schemes promote computational reasoning capab ilities. In this respect, the notion of Knowledge Representation \(KR\vant in the context of model representation. KR has a long historical background in Artificial Intelligence \(AI research, where the focus has been on structuring and encoding knowledge in different forms, used in conjunction with inference procedures, for the development of intelligent systems ccording to  Davis, Shrobe and Szolovits  [19 KR p l a y s m u ltip le  roles, in that it is a surrogate, a set of ontological commitments, a fragmented theory of intelligent reasoning, a medium for efficient computation, and a medium of human expression Ontologies provide a conceptualization mechanism or a vocabulary to represent knowledge in a given domain and are sometimes referred to as content theories  The concept of ontologies has been widely studied and definitions from different perspectives abound. More recently, the notion of ontologies has been referred by the Semantic Web community members as a set of knowledge terms, including the vocabulary, the semantic interconnections, and some simple rules of inference and logic for some particular topic  A n ot h e r relev a nt  definition provided by Studer, Benjamins and Fens suggests ontologies as a formal, explicit specification of a shared conceptualization Researchers have also proposed various categorizations for ontologies. For instance, Guarin tin gu i s h e s bet w een top lev e l  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  ontologies, domain ontologies, task ontologies, and application ontologies It is important to note that the major goal of ontologies is not merely to serve as taxonomies or vocabularies, but that of knowledge sharing and reuse by applications and systems. Neches, Fikes, Finin, Gruber, Senator and Swartout n t out  many  m odes of  kn o w l e dg e  sharing and reuse enabled by ontologies including exchange of techniques, inclusion of source specifications at design-time\-time invocation of external modules or services, and interoperability between systems through communication. These modes of sharing and reuse also apply in the context of model management Ontological engineering has grown as a subarea within knowledge engineering that concerns with ontology development and use throughout the ontology life cycle  design, implementation, validation, deployment maintenance, mapping, sharing, and reuse [25   Ontology representation languages play a key role in ontological engineering by providing a means to build ontologies based on specific KR paradigms to formally represent different knowledge modeling components such as concepts, and roles\tology representation languages such as KIF [26 an d On to lin g u a   e re bas e d on KR  tec h n i q u es  s u c h as  f i rstorder logic and frame-based representation  3.2 Relevant semantic Web standards Recently, XML-based ontology representation languages, also called as ontology markup languages have emerged to support ontology representation in the context of the Semantic Web [28 e s o u r ce Des c ription Framework \(RDF\ a W3C \(World Wide Web Consortium\ recommendation developed for describing Web resources with metadata and incorporates a data model based on the semantic-network KR paradigm RDF Schema \(RDFS\ is an extension of RDF with framebased primitives for defining the relationships between properties and resources, and is also a W3C Recommendation tology Inf eren ce L a y e r \(OIL   based on the Description Logics \(DL\ KR paradigm is an extension of RDF/RDFS adding more frame-based representation primitives and eluding the RDF reification mechanism M L OI L al s o bas e d on  DL K R  paradigm an ev ol u t i o n of t h e earlier D A R P A Agent Markup Language \(DAML\mpting to combine the expressiveness of DAML and OIL by providing DL extensions of RDF/RDFS directly  Web Ontology Language \(OWL\ved from the DAML+OIL language, is a W3C recommendation and is the current standard ontology markup language for the Seman It is ex tre m el y ric h f o r des c ribing relationships among class, properties, and individuals. Its vocabulary includes support for property type restrictions equality, property characteristics, class intersection, and restricted cardinality. Additionally, OWL is not a closed language; it is instead a combination of three sublanguages with increasing expressiveness, namely OWL-Lite, OWL-DL, and OWL-Full, to support varying needs of knowledge engineers. Recently, Semantic Web Rule Language \(SWRL h a s been propos ed by W3C as a rule language that can be used to write rules in terms of OWL concepts and can reason about OWL individuals With powerful features like built-ins, which are userdefined predicates, a number of libraries can be custom built \(in addition to the core built-ins\or various tasks such as unit or currency conversion, taxonomy queries and so forth. One such built-in library is the Semantic Query-Enhanced Web Rule Language \(SQWRL\ in order to support querying of OWL ontologies. SQWRL can be used to build retrieval specifications for knowledge extraction from OWL ontologies Web services as executable versions of models are a key component of our architecture as discussed in Section 5. Currently, web services are described procedurally using the Web Services Description Language \(WSDL which lack semantic descriptions of web services. Several approaches have been proposed to adding semantics to web service descriptions. Submissions to th e W3C consortium exemplify these approaches: OWL Web Ontology Language for Services \(OWL-S\ervices Modeling Ontology \(WSMO\mantic Web Services Framework \(SWSF\, and Web Service Semantics WSDL-S\se OWL-S, as discussed in Section 4.2 given its process-oriented nature amenable to functionalities such as model composition  4. Semantic Model / Service Representation  4.1 Semantic representation of models Ontologies can be used to develop semantically rich models that can support intelligent reasoning and querying based on not only syntactic information, but also semantic information. These reasoning capabilities provide the necessary technological support needed to discover, interpret, compose, and execute models Moreover, the use of ontologies facilitates the capture of model semantics that is independent of a particular tool or application As shown in Figure 1, the different abstraction levels for model representation, as discussed below serve as one dimension. Along an orthogonal dimension are the different domains. A number of domains may also be relevant in the context of a particular problem domain For example, a transportation model may be primarily formulated for the supply chain domain. The supply chain domain ontology may consist of key terms such as supplier, demand and customer. Other domain ontologies can provide additional semantics to the model structure For example, currency ontology as mentioned in the discussion above may be used to provide semantics to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


  cost variables. Another units ontology may provide semantics associated with units such as tons. Thus, in a nutshell, the problem domain ontology along with other auxiliary domain ontologies together forms a library of relevant ontologies to provide semantics to the models   Figure 1. Model Representation Abstractions  Model representation can be viewed at three levels of abstraction. Level 1 indicates the highest level of abstraction, where the goal of representation is to denote a particular modeling paradigm in terms of its fundamental constructs and relationships among them. The overall notion is similar to meta-modeling that gives information about the feasible structure of a particular model schema or instance. We have focused on using Structured Modeling \(SM th e m o del repres e n t ation paradigm   Thus, model representation at level 1 provides the concepts and relationships that be used to represent both the model schemas and model instances, from a structural viewpoint. We have built two ontologies using OWL to capture the concepts and relationships in SM for representing model schemas and model instances respectively \(refer Figure 2 The next lower level of abstraction is level 2, where the goal is to represent a particular model schema independent of its data, such that various sets of data values may be used to instantiate this model at the lowest level of abstraction, i.e. at level 3. For example, an optimization model for a transportation problem in the supply chain domain may be represented in a dataindependent manner at level 2. Level 2 essentially is an instantiation of level 1 model schema structure ontology in the context of the domain knowledge. This implies linking it with classes in the problem domain ontologies such as supply chain ontology or other relevant ontologies such as currency \(for cost variables\. Thus level 2 captures semantics, both in terms of the model structure and problem domain semantics. This provides meaningful information that can be queried and extracted for various model management functions such as model selection and model composition, as discussed in Section 6   Figure 2. Model Representation \(Level 1  The next lower level of abstraction is level 2, where the goal is to represent a particular model schema independent of its data, such that various sets of data values may be used to instantiate this model at the lowest level of abstraction, i.e. at level 3. For example, an optimization model for a transportation problem in the supply chain domain may be represented in a dataindependent manner at level 2. Level 2 essentially is an instantiation of level 1 model schema structure ontology in the context of the domain knowledge. This implies linking it with classes in the problem domain ontologies such as supply chain ontology or other relevant ontologies such as currency \(for cost variables\. Thus level 2 captures semantics, both in terms of the model structure and problem domain semantics. This provides meaningful information that can be queried and extracted for various model management functions such as model selection and model composition, as discussed in Section 6 Similarly, level 3 indicates the lowest level of model abstraction, where the goal is to represent a particular model instance. It is essentially an instantiation of level 1 model instance structure ontology in the context of a particular model schema and a data set. For example, an optimization model for a transportation problem in the supply chain domain may be instantiated with a particular data set where the parameter values needed to solve the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  problem are clearly provided. Model solvers can then use this model instance to provide results for the transformation problem for the given data set  4.2. Semantic representation of services We use OWL-S  33 f o r p r o v id in g se m a n tics to  models, encapsulated as executable web services in the proposed architecture. OWL-S is an OWL-based Web Service Ontology language, whose objective is to provide a vocabulary for encoding rich semantic web service descriptions. Service descriptions may be provided using OWL-S that mainly consists of three interrelated subontologies for the top-level concept Service, namely ServiceProfile, ServiceModel, and ServiceGrounding The service model \(relevant in the context of MM provides essentially a process model specification to describe how the service works in other words, how the client may interact with the service\in the form of Inputs Outputs, Preconditions, and Results \(typically called IOPR model\, which may be used for service seeking composing service descriptions, coordinating and monitoring of service executions. The Result concept allows a mechanism to specify several mutually exclusive results with corresponding outputs and possible effects using the inCondition, withOutput, and hasEffect properties\ process can be one of the three types atomic \(single interaction\, composite \(combination of processes with some workflow control structure\, or simple \(service abstraction The IOPR model can be specified in any appropriate representation language. We have chosen to use SWRL as the representation of choice, given the amenability of this rule-based representation for sequential composition of services T h e P r econ d ition s i n Co n d itions an d  Effects are represented using logical formulae in SWRL expressed over the Input and Output, which are essentially SWRL variables. The Parameter class is an intermediate class between these concepts, and is associated with a hasParameterType property. While the parameter type may be either a class or an XML schema datatype, in order to provide semantically richer descriptions of models \(e.g., a GenusName concept is much richer than, say, a string datatype\we take the stance of declaring Inputs and Outputs as concepts from the problem domain ontology or any other relevant ontology. Thus, the conditions expressed in terms of inputs and outputs will also be expressed will also be in terms of the relevant domain ontologies, and as a result have appropriate representation level \(as discussed in Section 4.1 In order to ensure decidability, we restrict the SWRL rules to be DL-Saf allo w i ng th e SW R L ru le to  bind only to known individuals in an ontology. This check is performed by the rule engine, thus assuring that the services selected based on this reasoning can indeed be executed. Certain other guidelines required for ease of reasoning are mentioned in   5. Proposed Model Management Architecture  Figure 3 shows the proposed model management architecture based on semantic web technologies. At the core of the architecture is the semantic representation of models/services. Executable models are denoted as model web services, which are described semantically using OWL-S and SWRL, as discussed in Section 4.2 Additionally, models may also be represented using either markup languages such as SMML e r f o rm at s such as GAMS, LINGO or MATLAB, which can be semantically represented in the form of structured model ontology, as discussed in Section 4.1. These semantic representations of models or services use the terminology from relevant domain knowledge ontologies Representative model preprocessing and execution services are shown on the right side of Figure 3, with which the user may interact through a front end. In turn these services leverage semantic processing services such as semantic web rule service and ontology reasoning service. UML component symbol is used to identify executable services. The arrows denote service requests and not the information exchange occurring. Now, we discuss the interactions among various components of the architecture In cases where models exist in SMML format, the ontology mapper service a y be i n v o k e d t o  convert the XML representation to a semantic representation based on the SM ontology. In cases where models exist in other formats such as GAMS, the model translator service may be invoked to translate the model into an SMML format, which in turn can be mapped to the SM ontology using the ontology mapper service SMML models may be queried directly using mechanisms such as XQuery, while the ontology representations can may be queried using SQWRL \(refer Section 6.1\ to provide semantically richer results. In cases where only executable models in the form of web services exist, the modeler may annotate them using the semantic annotation service to conduct further reasoning Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


    Figure 3. A model management architecture based on semantic web technologies   about the encapsulated model. Since explicit structural information will be missing from their representations only limited reasoning about such models may be done e.g., querying based on structural information may not be done\ch selection of relevant models is done by the model selection service using the semantic processing services. The ontology reasoning service reasons about the OWL ontologies to create inferences such as subsumption based on description logic. Ontology reasoners such as Pe a r e u s ed f o r th is s e rv ice. T h e  semantic web rule service is a rule engine \(e.g., Bossam  at reas on s bas e d o n t h e S W RL ru le s  T h e m odel  execution services are discussed as application scenarios in Section 6 In a nutshell, the proposed architecture leverages semantic representations of models and their execution counterparts, i.e., model web services along with reasoning services to support model management functionalities  6. Example Application Scenarios  In the discussion below, two types of potential application scenarios are presented to illustrate the ideas discussed earlier. Each of these scenarios have been prototypically tested for feasibility  6.1. Model selection Decision makers often need to select an appropriate model for the task at hand based on a number of factors such as the model-task compatibility, data requirements for candidate models, and last but not least execution behavior of candidate models. Here, we draw our attention to model-task compatibility, which can be judged by decision makers based on the results obtained by querying a semantic model base for relevant concepts The model ontology repository consists of structured model ontologies \(transformed from SMML\d also the corresponding service descriptions of those models. The structured model ontologies in turn refer to particular Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  domain ontologies. For example, a demand forecasting model in a production environment will refer to terminology using one or more manufacturing domain ontologies. SQWRL queries written in terms of the structured model ontology terms can enable semantic querying of models Shown below is a sample query using SQWRL  Genus\(?g g, ?l sqwrl:select\(?g,?l  This query will return pairs of genera and their structured model levels. The sqwrl prefix is used to denote SQWRL operators. Implicit in this query is the information that the genus could belong to any one of the finer genus types primitive, compound, attribute, function, and test represented as subclasses of the class genus. Semantic querying of a model base thus allows one to obtain information without knowing the detailed syntactic structure of the model base. In other words, semantic queries support retrieval of both explicit and implicit information based on syntactic and semantic information in a knowledge base. The declarative approach allows user to specify what information is needed without posing the burden of knowing how the information is actually represented. These declarative SQWRL queries can then be reasoned using rule engines such as Jess or Bossom, to find the result of the query. This is supported by the semantic web rule service in the proposed architecture  6.2. Model composition Model composition is the problem of generating a sequence of models from a library of available models in response to a particular decision-making situation. Model composition focuses on assembling models together at a functional level [16, 41 rath er th an at a stru ct u r al  level. Only few research proposals attempt to address model composition in distributed settings [7, 48 Using the semantic description of web services in terms of OWL-S and SWRL-based IOPR model \(refer Section 4.2\ the knowledge base and a model composition request specified as a SWRL atom, the composer service invokes the semantic web rule service to find if a feasible SWRL rule path exists, and generating all possible such paths. The semantic web rule service is essentially a forward rule chaining rule engine, Bossam  h ic h reas ons bas e d on th e S W RL D L S a f e rules It  can be noted that besides the horn clause based rule base the inference is also based on the relevant description logic-based domain ontologies. This type of composition is suitable for models in which the process model consists of only atomic processes Alternatively, the composition service may be based on Hierarchical Task Network \(HTN\ning techniques as discusse h is com pos i tion ca n be m o re  amenable to OWL-S composite services involving various workflow control constructs e v e r, in t h is case   an intermediate task of transforming the SWRL rules in OWL-S IOPE models to SHOP2 planner amenable operators and methods needs to be performed  7. Discussion and concluding remarks  Analogous to data, this paper acknowledges decision models as an organizational resource that need to be managed, shared and reused. Distributed and heterogeneous information technology infrastructure imposes specific challenges that must be addressed in unique and novel ways. In that regard, the paper proposes an architecture that enables model management function in a distributed setting. The architecture is unique with respect to: \(1\ is truly distributed in the sense that model repositories as well as model management functions are distributed. \(2\plicitly leverages semantic web technologies such as OWL, OWL-S, and SWRL to facilitate model management function such as model selection and model composition The complexity of the technical landscape and the diversity of modeling paradigms represent significant challenges and opportunities for extending this research For example, much of the research in ontological engineering comes to bear in the context of model management. Of specific relevance is ontology development and ontology integration for desperate models. Other areas include the role of SWRL in ontology query as well as composition. The latter may include comparing and contrasting SWRL to other composition approaches such as HTN planning techniques as well as exploring areas of complementarities. Moreover, the suitability of the proposed approach to various types of models is something to consider. While structured modeling provided an underlying conceptual foundation for representing the details of mathematical models structured modeling has its limitations and may not be suitable for all types of models. Last but not least, the complexity of developing ontology-based representation of models will need to be further explored if this research is to transition to practice  8. References  1 E. T u rba n J  E. A r ons on, T  P L i a n g  a nd R. Sha r da  Decision Support and Business Intelligence Systems  Eighth ed.: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2007  R Kri s hn an and K Ch ari  M od el m a n a ge men t  S u rvey   future research directions and a bibliography Interactive Transactions of OR/MS vol. 3, 2000 3 A   A r s a nja n i, L  J. Zha n g  M Ellis, A  A lla n, a nd K Channabasavaiah, "S3: A service-oriented reference architecture IT Pro vol. May/June, pp. 10-17, 2007 4 O. F  E l G a y a r an d K. T a n d e k a r  A n X M L b ased sch e m a  definition for model sharing and reuse in a distributed Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


  environment Decision Support Systems vol. 43, pp. 791808, 2007 5  R  W  B l a nning  M ode l m a na g e m e nt sy s t em s  A n  overview Decision Support Systems vol. 9, pp. 9-18 1993 6 A  M. C h a n g  C  W  H o ls a ppl e  a nd A  B  W h ins t on  Model management issues and directions Decision Support Systems vol. 9, pp. 19-37, 1993 7 H  K  Bha r g a v a R. K r is hna n, a nd R. M u lle r D e c i s i on  support on demand: Emerging electronic markets for decision technologies Decision Support Systems vol. 19 pp. 193-214, 1997 8 D  R. D o lk  I nte g ra te d m ode l m a nag e m e nt in the  da ta  warehouse era European Journal of Operational Research vol. 122, pp. 199-218, 2000 9 A  M G e off r ion, "A n introd uc tio n to s t ruc t ura l m ode ling    Management Science vol. 33, pp. 547-588, May 1987 10  S. Y  H u h  Q  B. Ch ung a n d H  M. K i m   C olla bora tiv e model management in departmental computing INFOR vol. 38, pp. 373-389, Nov 2000 11  S. Y  H u h a n d H  M K i m  A re a l tim e sy nc hroniz a tio n mechanism for collaborative model management Decision Support Systems vol. 37, pp. 315-330, Jun 2004 12  A  V. D e ok a r a nd O  F  ElG ay a r A  s e m a ntic w e b  services-based architecture for model management," in Proceedings of the 41st Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 '08 Waikoloa Big Island, HI: IEEE Computer Society, 2008 13  D  F. Fe rg us on a nd M. L  St oc k t on S e r v i c e orie nte d  architecture: Programming model and product architecture IBM Systems Journal vol. 44, pp. 753-780 2005 14 B  I y e r  G  Sha n k a r a na r a y a na n, a nd M. L  L e na r d   M ode l  management decision environment: a Web service prototype for spreadsheet models Decision Support Systems vol. 40, pp. 283-304, 2005 15  O  C. Ez e c hukw u a nd I. Ma ros    O O F O p e n O p tim iza tion Framework," Department of Computing, Imperial College London, Departmental Technical Report 2003/7, April 2003 16  T  Ma dhus u d a n  A  w e b s e r v ic e s  f r am ew or k  f o r dis t r i bute d  model management Information Systems Frontiers vol 9, pp. 9-27, Mar 2007 17  T  Ma dhus u d a n a n d N  U tta m s ing h  A de c l a r a tive approach to composing web services in dynamic environments Decision Support Systems vol. 41, pp. 325357, January 2006 18 S. Russe ll a nd P  N o rv ig  Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach Second ed.: Prentice Hall, 2002 19  R. D a v i s  H  S h ro be a n d P. Sz ol ov its  W ha t is k now le dg e representation AI Magazine vol. 14, pp. 17-33, 1993 20  B  C h a ndr a s e k a r a n J  R  J o s e phson, a nd V. R  B e nja m ins   What are ontologies and why do we need them IEEE Intelligent Systems vol. 14, pp. 20-26, January-February 1999 21  J  H e ndle r  A g e nts a nd the s e m a ntic  W e b  IEEE Intelligent Systems vol. 16, pp. 30-37, March 2001 2 R S t ud er  V  R Be n j am i n s an d D F e n s el  Kno w l e d g e  engineering: Principles and methods Data and Knowledge Engineering vol. 25 pp. 161-197, March 1998 23  N  G u a r ino F orm a l ontolog y in inf o rm a tion s y s t em s  in Proceedings of Formal Ontology in Information Systems FOIS '98 N. Guarino, Ed. Trento, Italy: IOS Press, 1998 pp. 3-15 24  R. N e c h e s R. E. Fi k e s   T  Finin T  R G r ube r, T  Se na tor  and W. R. Swartout, "Enabling technology for knowledge sharing AI Magazine vol. 12, pp. 36-56, 1991 25  A   G o m e z P e re z  O  C o rc ho a nd M. Fe r n a nde z L ope z   Ontological Engineering: With Examples from the Areas of Knowledge Management, e-Commerce and the Semantic Web Springer, 2004 26  M. R  G e ne se re th a nd R  E. Fik e s K now le dg e Inte rc ha ng e Format, Version 3.0 Reference Manual," Computer Science Department, Stanford University, Stanford, CA Logic-92-1 1992 27  T  R   G r ube r, "O ntoling u a  A  m e c h a n ism to s upport portable ontologies," Knowledge Systems Laboratory Stanford University, Stanford, CA KSL-91-66, March 1992 28  J  R  G  P u l i d o   M  A  G  R u i z  R  H e r r e r a  E  C a b e l l o   S   Legrand, and D. Elliman, "Ontology languages for the semantic web: A never completely updated review Knowledge-Based Systems vol. 19, pp. 489-497, 2006 29  W 3 C   W 3C R e c o m m e nda tions  1 e s o urc e D e s c riptio n Framework \(RDF\: Concepts and Abstract Synatax, \(2 RDF Vocabulary Description Language 1.0: RDF Schema 3\ OWL Web Ontology Language Semantics and Abstract Syntax, \(4\A Semantic Web Rule Language \(SWRL Combining OWL and RuleML http://www.w3.org/2001/sw 2004 3 F  Baad er D Cal v an ese D L   M c G u i n n e ss D Nard i  an d  P. Patel-Schneider, "The Description Logic Handbook Theory, Implementation and Applications,"  Cambridge MA: Cambridge University Press, 2003 3 D. F e n s el, I. Ho rr o c ks, F  van Har m elen S  Deck er, M   Erdmann, and M. Klein, "OIL in a nutshell," in Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Knowledge Acquisition, Modeling, and Management EKAW '00 R. Dieng, Ed., 2000, pp. 1-16 3 F  van Harm el en  P   P a t e l S c hn ei d e r and I  Ho rr o c ks  Reference description of the DAML+OIL ontology markup language http://www.daml.org/2001/03/reference  March 2001 33 OWL S Coa lition   O WL S 1 2 P r e R e l e a se   http://www.ai.sri.com/daml/services/owl-s/1.2 2006 34  W 3 C  W 3C Mem b e r s Subm is s i ons 1 W L W e b  2\eb 3\mantic Web 4\eb Service Semantics WSDL-S http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/swsig 2005 35  D  R e da v i d, L  I a nnone T  Pay n e  a nd G  Sem e r a r o  OWL-S Atomic Services Composition with SWRL Rules," in Foundations of Intelligent Systems 2008, pp 605-611 36 B. Motik U. Sa ttle r, a nd R Stu d e r  Q ue r y a n s w e r ing  f o r  OWL-DL with rules Journal of Web Semantics: Science Services and Agents on the World Wide Web vol. 3, pp. 4160, 2005 3 C Qu i x  D Ken s ch e an d X  L i  M at ch i n g o f On t o l o gi es  with XML Schemas Using a Generic Metamodel," in On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems 2007: CoopIS DOA, ODBASE, GADA, and IS 2007, pp. 1081-1098 38 C. T s ina r a k i a nd S Chr istod o u l a k is I nte r ope ra bility of  XML Schema Applications with OWL Domain Knowledge Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  and Semantic Web Tools," in On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems 2007: CoopIS, DOA, ODBASE, GADA and IS 2007, pp. 850-869 39 B. P a rsia a nd E. Siri n P e lle t A n O W L D L re a s one r in  Proceedings of the 3rd International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC '04 Hiroshima, Japan, 2004 40  M. J a ng a nd J  C  Soh n  B os s a m   a n e x te nde d rule e n g i ne  for OWL inferencing," in Proceedings of the RuleML '04 Conference 2004 41 M. I. Bu-Hu l a i g a a nd H. K. Ja in A n inte ra c tiv e pla n based procedure for model integration in DSS," in Proceedings of the Twenty-First Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS '88 Kailua-Kona HI, 1988, pp. 428-434 42  K. Ch ari M o d e l co m p o s iti o n u s in g f ilter sp aces   Information Systems Research vol. 13, pp. 15-35, Mar 2002 43 K. Cha ri M ode l c o m position in a d i strib u te d  environment Decision Support Systems vol. 35, pp. 399413, Jun 2003 44 V. D h a r a n d M J a r k e   O n m ode ling pr oc e s s e s    Decision Support Systems vol. 9, pp. 39-49, 1993 45 A  Dutta a nd A  B a su, "A n a r ti f i c i a l inte llig e n c e a pproa c h  to model management in decision support systems IEEE Computer vol. 17, pp. 89-97, September 1984 46  J  E. K o tte m a nn a nd D  R. D o lk  P roc e s s orie nte d m ode l integration," in Proceedings of the Twenty-First Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-21 92 Kailua-Kona, HI, 1988, pp. 396-402 47 J. E. K o tte m a nn a nd D  R Dol k  M ode l i n te g r a tion a n d  modeling languages: A process perspective Information Systems Research vol. 3, pp. 1-16, 1992 48  S. Ba K  R. L a ng a nd A   B. W h ins t o n  E nte r pris e  decision support using Intranet technology Decision Support Systems vol. 20, pp. 99-134, 1997 4 M  Ho lo ch er R M i c h alski D S o lte an d F   V i cun a   MIDA: An open systems architecture for model-oriened integration of data and algorithms Decision Support Systems vol. 20, pp. 135-147, 1997 50  M. A  J e us fe ld a nd T  X. B u i D i s tribute d de c i s i o n s u p por t and organizational connectivity Decision Support Systems vol. 19, pp. 215-225, 1997 51  M. K  May e r  F uture tre nds in m ode l m a na g e m e nt  systems: Parallel and distributed extensions Decision Support Systems vol. 22, pp. 325-335, 1998 5 E. S i ri n  B P a rsia D. W u J Hen d l er an d D. Nau   H T N  planning for web service composition using SHOP2 Journal of Web Semantics vol. 1, pp. 377-396, 2004 53  D  R. D o lk  N e x t ge ne ra tion m ode l m a na gem e nt m ode l evolution as knowledge dynamics," in Proceedings of the 23rd IFIP TC 7 Conference on System Modelling and Optimization Cracow, Poland, 2007    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 10 However, the method proposed in this paper is able to improve the tracking performance. In roll, yaw and pitch axes, the attitude commands of aircraft have rapid and precise responses. Besides, usi ng in-flight C.G. estimation the approach can be seen to quickly adapt to the changing dynamics of the aircraft, a nd the coupling influence among three axes is effectively restrained In conclusion, the proposed de sign method in this paper could provide consistent pe rformance under varying C.G locations. Furthermore, compared with the conventional gain-scheduling method which requires huge design workload, this approach would effectively reduce the design complexity and make the design process clear and easy to implement 5  C ONCLUSION  This paper focuses on mode ling and attitude control of aircraft with C.G. variations First, a 6-DoF flight dynamics model of aircraft with C.G. vari ations is derived in order to account for the effect of the C.G. offset. After that, a synthesis approach based on i n-flight estimation of C.G position and inverse dynami cs is proposed to provide consistent performance under va rying C.G. locations. The simulation results demons trate good control performance and effectiveness of this approach A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This research work is supported by the China Aviation Science Fund program \221Integrate d Vehicle Management System Concept and Architecture Research for Advanced Aircraft\222 \(No.20060718001 R EFERENCES  1] AGARD, \223Integrated Vehi cle Management Systems,\224 North Atlantic Treaty Organization REPORT 343, 1996  Watson M  D. and Johnson S.B 223A Theory of Vehicle Management Systems,\224 2007 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, March 3-10, 2007   A.Hay r e and T.Dull, \223The ATF YF-23 Vehicle Management System,\224 Ae rospace Design Conference Irvine, CA, 1992  B.Hill and R.W a tts, \223Suit Study\227The Im pact of VMS in Subsystem Integration,\224 Ae rospace Design Conference Irvine, CA, 1992  Huber B  223C enter of Gravity C ontrol on Airbus Aircraft Fuel, Range and Loading,\224 The 47th Annual Conference  of the Society of Allied Weight Engineers, Plymouth Michigan, May 23-25, 1988   Nhan Nguy en etc, \223Dy n am ics and Adaptive C ontrol for Stability Recovery of Damage d Asymmetric Aircraft,\224 AIAA Guidance, Navigation a nd Control Conference and Exhibit, Keystone, Colorado, 2006   Ostroff A J and B acon B J, \223Force and M o m e nt Approach for Achievable Dynamics Using Nonlinear Dynamic Inversion,\224 AIAA Guidance Navigation and Control Conference and Exhibit, Portland, OR, 1999  Liu Jiarun and Shen Gongz hang, \223Attitude Control Based on Inverse Dynamics and Online Parameter Identification,\224 Journal of Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics 31\(2  Wu Sentang and Fei Yuhua Flight Control System Beijing: Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Press, 2005  R obert C  Nelson and Gu Junxiao\(translator Stability and Automatic C ontrol, Beijing: National Defense Industry Press, 2008   B a rton J.B acon and Irene M  Gregory 223General Equations of Motion for a Damaged Asymmetric Aircraft,\224 AIAA Atmosphe ric Flight Mechanics Conference and Exhibit, Hilton Head, Carolina, 2007  o she Idan, Gil Iosilevskii and Sergey Nazarov 223InFlight Weight and Balance Identification Using Neural Networks,\224 AIAA Guidance Navigation and Control Conference and Exhibit, Austin, Texas, 2003  Li Yuany u an and Zhang Lifeng, \223Application of Adaptive Weighted Fusion Algorithm of Multi-sensor Data,\224 Automation & Instrumentation 2, 10-13, 2008  Aircraft Design M a nual Beijing: Aviation Industry Press, 2005  M a them atics M a nual, B e iji ng: Higher Education Press 2002 B IOGRAPHY  Jing Zhang is a PhD student in the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering, Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China. She has worked on researching integrated vehicle management system concept and architecture. Her research interests include integrated fligh t/propulsion control system  


 11 modeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, active center of gravity control, etc Lingyu Yang has got his PhD in Navigation, Guidance and Control from Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China, 2007. He is currently an assistant instructor in the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering in BUAA. His main field of research is control allocation and flight control of aerospace vehicles. His research interests include integrated control system, m odeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, fli ght simulation, etc Gongzhang Shen was born in 1945 in China. Since 1990s, he has been a professor at the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering, Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China His research interests include integrated control technology integrated vehicle management system nonlinear modeling, control and simulation of various aerospace vehicles, etc 


DAily SMLS TIROPI TMMS solar 90 243 60 A IIt I  I 1111X   L _~17A Hi FMAMJ ASOND 0.3 1.0 1.5 20 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 0 80 9.0 Nunber of observatio  24h Figure 10 Number of observations per each 24 hour period for LEOMAC-P top row and LEOMAC-S bottom row Everywhere in a given color is measured that number of times with lOxIO km horizontal resolution for TROPI TIMS and 50x50 km for SMLS The left three columns show an example for Aug 17 The rightmost column shows the annual variation for the TROPI and TIMS solar measurements where the vertical line is 17 August The number of measurements per 24 hour period for SMLS and TIMS/thermal has only a minor variation throughout the year 1000 km i 100 km 10 km GUobal I Global j Figure 11 Overarching scientific issues that need to be addressed by future atmospheric composition missions and LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC horizontal vertical and temporal coverage and resolution For the various measurement objectives L indicates that observations are needed in the lower troposphere U that they are needed in the upper troposphere and S that they are needed in the stratosphere The right end of each horizontal arrow is the required horizontal resolution and the left end is the required coverage The upper end of each vertical arrow is the desired temporal resolution and the lower end is the required resolution 13 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


