Adapting the DeLone and McLean Model for the Enterprise Architecture Benefit Realization Process   Eetu Niemi Accenture Helsinki Finland eetu.niemi@accenture.com  Samuli Pekkola Department of Business Information Management and Logistics Tampere University of Technology, Finland samuli.pekkola@tut.fi   Abstract  Enterprise Architecture \(EA\oach has been widely used for managing the complexities and 
changes in organizations and their business environments. However, research on potential benefits of the approach is rare and lacks strong empirical evidence. In this paper, we adapt the DeLone and McLean Model of Information Systems Success for describing the EA benefit realization process. Accordingly, we scrutinize seven constructs contributing to EA benefit realization. Each constructs is approached from four view points namely process product, outcome and impact. Perceptions on describing the constructs in the EA context are presented with an example of how our adapted model can be used in organizations. The results form a basis for further research and discussion, and are also 
a step toward cumulative tradition in EA research   1. Introduction  Organizations today are applying Enterprise Architectures \(EA\ for managing the complexity of organizations structures, information technology \(IT and business environments, and facilitating the integration of strategy, personnel, business and IT [12 14, 19, 23 i n cl u d es arc h i t ectu ral m odels  n eeded in managing and developing the organization, en 
compassing the viewpoints of business, information information systems \(IS\d technology   It describes the current architecture of the organization, provides a vision of a future architecture and a transition plan describing how to reach it [3, 21  However, as with any organizational initiative, also EA has to be justified by demonstrating its positive impacts to the organization [23 T h is is e m p h asized as EA initiatives typically require substantial investments en th ough it is clai m e d th at E A  
has the potential to produce significant benefits [17  s t ron g e m pirical e v id en ce h a s  y e t to be present h is lack o f dat a  m i gh t be caus e d n o t  only by the novelty of the topic but also by its constant change making the measurement of EA effects extensively difficult [2  Fur t he r m o r e  no ge neric, validated theory or model for describing the realization of benefits from EA has been introduced In this exploratory study, we scrutinize how the DeLone and McLean model of IS success be 
used to describe the EA benefit realization process Such a process is defined as a sequence of constructs that contribute to the realization of benefits from EA  First, we define each of the DeLone and McLean model constructs in the EA domain and second, demonstrate how the model can be used by describing a real-life EA initialization case. Consequently we aim at identifying the first steps in tailoring the model to the EA domain so that they form a basis for formalizing the model and depict some issues to consider 
when assessing the EA benefits and establishing such initiatives. Our approach helps the benefit realization by illustrating the scope of EA and providing tools to narrow it down to meaningful range  Our approach is based on the fact that the DeLone and McLean model originates from generic communication and information influence theories  being validated in several domains [e.g. 9, 15, 20  con s equ e n t l y m a k i ng it suff icie n t l y  v e r s atile to be used in the EA context as well. However, since the 
concept of EA is extensive and somewhat ambiguous, we consider the original model in its current form to be insufficient and incomplete to accommodate the whole concept of EA. Therefore, we approach each of the constructs from four different viewpoints process  product  outcome and impact  that are described in details later in chapter 2 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


  Processes comprise a set of EA planning, development and management processes [3, 21 26   Products include models and principles depicting the current and future state of an organization, complemented by certain services 2, 21, 33    Outcomes implementations\lt directly from the use of EA products and services, featuring e.g. information systems constructed according to EA products   Impacts from EA, such as benefits, may arise directly from EA processes, products and services, implementations, or indirectly through the applicability of direct benefits The paper is organized in the following way First, theoretical background is presented. Second the DeLone and McLean model is described. Third the model is brought into the EA context. Fourth, an example to clarify the use of the adapted model is portrayed. The paper ends with discussion and conclusion chapters  2. Theoretical Background  Currently a large amount of  EA research focuses on the planning and development aspect of EA frameworks [e.g an n i ng a n d dev e l opi ng methods and tools [e.g d dev e lopm en t  processes [e.g r it ical su ccess  f actors a n d maturity models have gained less attention [c.f. 34 35, 36 T y picall y  m a tu rit y  m odel s can be u s ed to  attain a high-level view of the quality of the process and product viewpoints of EA in an organization, i.e what success factors have been taken into account in EA development and management and how comprehensively. They do not include comprehensive instruments for evaluating EA benefits There are only a few studies addressing the potential benefits or the value of EA [e.g i.e. th e situations before EA development initiatives have started. Although some studies have been conducted e.g. 14 th e y are of ten theoretical, lack ing s t rong empirical eviden d ies on th e theoretical foundations of EA, including comprehensively defining the different viewpoints of EA, i.e. processes products, services, implementations, impacts and their interrelations, and the use of EA products are rare. Yet the importance of EA has been emphasized 23, 34 o in i n dus tr y  w h ere a g r eat num ber of anecdotal evidence on the practical business value and utilization of EA exists The domain of EA is not extraordinary when attempting to display benefits. Historically, the same issues have been encountered in the IS domain [7, 8 11 A  m u ltit u d e o f  m o d e ls h a v e b e e n d e v e lo p e d in  order to describe and measure the IS success the realization of benefits or value of IS [7, 8, 10 pecially the DeLone and McLean models \(both original and updated a v e been  w i del y us ed an d v a lidated \(e.g. Google Scholar finds over 1300 citations The DeLone and McLean model is designed for the IS domain. It is based on generic communication and information influence theories [see 22  T h is  generality suggests the model to be usable in characterizing any process, making it applicable to other contexts. In fact, in addition to IS context, the model has already been adapted and validated in e-business 9  kno w l e d ge  ma na ge me nt  2 0   e l e a r ni n g  1 5   business processes d w e bs i t es 29 A l s o t h e  definitions of IS and EA indicate that the model can be used in the EA domain. Information systems are defined as being an organized collection of IT, data and information, processes and people h ile E A  is seen as a collection of principles, methods and models that holistically describe the entire organization h e EA des c ription  in cl u d es t h e abov e m e n tioned components of IS The EA domain would benefit from the success model when trying to unify the concept of EA benefit realization. So far only some ideas of components of the realization process have been suggested [e.g. 19 21, 23  T o g a i n an ov erv i e w of a n d u n d ers t a n di ng about the process, the nature of EA has first to be understood and defined. First EA is a product including principles and models depicting the current and future state of an organization [3, 21 T h e p r odu cts  may be complemented with various services, for instance EA guidan econ d  EA is a process  3, 17, 21, 26 o re s p ecif ica l l y a collectio n of pla n ning, development and management processes EA generates various impacts to and within the organization [e.g e s t u d ies do n o t di fferentiate from where the impacts actually arise. Alternatives include direct impacts from EA processes or indirectly through the resulting products and services. However, DeLone and McLean s u ggested that benefits from information systems are generated through their use only. This argues for similar kind of approach in the EA domain. Indeed, as any architecture EA is used for implementing, for instance, organizational structures, processes, systems, applications, and services. The transformation towards the target EA is carried out through a set of development projects [18, 33 T h is adds an oth e r potential source of EA outcomes implemented EA There are also a variety of other uses for EA products and services. For instance, they can be used to support decision-making processes, change manProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


agement, business process design, system development, and project planning and steering  We consider also these to be the outcomes or implementations of EA as they involve the use of EA products and services Kluge et e DeL o n e an d McL e a n  model to the EA context. They used two case studies to provide an overview of the EA value realization process. However, their study reports only preliminary results discussing EA presentation and governance strategies and their effects on the value realization process. The problem, in our view, is the narrow consideration of the original success model: only the effects of presentation and governance strategies are discussed while the other constructs have been left intact  3. The DeLone and McLean Model  The original DeLone and McLean IS Success Model [7 s at ex a m in i n g an d s t ru ct u r ing t h e dependent variable in IS research IS success. At the time the article was written, already a considerable amount of literature had been published on IS success and IS success measures. This myriad of different measures was \(and still is\used by the multidimensional nature of information: it can be measured on different levels, such as the technical, the semantic and the effectiveness level [31 T h eref ore, a n eed f o r a comprehensive view of IS success was highly appreciated The DeLone and McLean model is based on two complementary theories: theory on communication  d in f o r m atio n i n flu e n c e th eor y 22]. C o m m u nication theory considers information to be serial it passes through a series of stages from its creation to the potential impact on the recipien Fu rth e r more, for each stage different success measures may  B y addin g t h e addition a l i n f o r m atio n  influence level to the levels of information, DeLone and McLean derived six categories of IS success namely System Quality, Information Quality, Use User Satisfaction, Individual Impact, and Organizational Impact. Subsequently, they used the categories to organize the research on IS success, identified potential variables \(measures\for each category and for interdependencies between them, and finally, developed a descriptive model of IS success As the model shows, IS success is a multidimensional construct. DeLone and McLean \(1992\us suggested that individual measures should be selected from the IS success categories to create a comprehensive measurement instrument. All the constructs should be measured, or at least controlled, and any possible causal relationships between them should be taken into account. The measures and constructs should be selected according to the objectives of the measurement and its context, emphasizing tested and established measures. The number of measures should then be reduced to enable the comparison and validation of the results The model was not validated through empirical studies in the original article. However, since then considerable amount of research have been conducted to validate, criticize and develop the model Later DeLone and McLean [8 odu ced an u pdated  version utilizing the findings and critique. For example, a Service Quality construct was added and the Use construct divided into Intention to Use and Use constructs. Also Individual Impact and Organizational Impact constructs were combined into a simpler Net Benefits construct. Figure 1 illustrates the updated version of the model   System Quality Information Quality Intention to Use User Satisfaction Net Benefits Service Quality Use  Figure 1 Updated version of the DeLone and McLean IS Success Model [8   4. The DeLone and McLean Model in the EA Context  Next the adaptation of the DeLone and McLean model to the EA context is discussed  4.1. Information Quality  The Information Quality construct measures the output of an y picall y th i s  is th e i n f o r m ation produced by the system. Attributes such as accuracy timeliness, completeness, relevance and consistency of information are found to be relevant measures   Product In the EA context, the closest equivalent for information produced by an IS is the information produced by EA processes, i.e EA artifacts. The construct measures the quality of EA artifacts, meaning EA principles and m h e qu alit y of E A art i f a ct s can be defined, for instance, by four characteProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


ristics: stakeholder and purpose orientation quality of content, quality of presentation, and the management of documentation T h is emphasizes the EA product viewpoint rather than the process viewpoint since EA artifacts are products   Process This viewpoint connotes the quality of information used in the EA processes, such as information extracted from documents and interviews   Outcome The construct refers to the quality of information produced by a specific implementation of EA. For example, if an IS is implemented according to EA, the construct can be defined and measured as presented by DeLone and McLean i m ilarl y  th e ou tp u t of a n  implemented process producing information is evaluated correspondingly   Impact A direct equivalent for this construct would be the quality of information related to the EA impacts, i.e. the information that describes the impacts themselves. However such a definition complicates the model by creating an extra construct referring to EA benefits, which, according to the original definition rather follows the ideology of the Net Benefits. Hence, from this viewpoint the measures of Information Quality construct rather refer to the Net Benefits construct  4.2. System Quality  The System Quality construct measures the system, i.e. IS itself alu a ted th rough  functionality, flexibility, reliability, response time integration or usability of the system   Process The closest equivalent is the quality of the EA processes themselves. The process quality characteristics include effectiveness efficiency and adaptability [2 l so a num ber of process measurement methodologies have been constructed and applied   Product From this viewpoint there is no direct equivalent apart from the EA implementation itself. EA products are typically documents, referring to the Information Quality construct. Systems are produced according to or in compliance with EA thus referring to the Use construct. Similarly, EA products are also more closely associated with the Net Benefits construct as high-quality systems can be produced according to EA, or other benefits may arise in systems development because of EA   Outcome The construct refers to the quality of a specific EA implementation. It can be measured e.g.  by the system quality criteria [e.g. 7  t h e proces s qu alit y  criteria [e.g 27 depending on the type of implementation   Impacts From this viewpoint the construct refers to the quality of impacts themselves, and can thus also be conceptualized as the Net Benefits construct  4.3. Service Quality  The Service Quality construct draws from the notion that IS organizations work in a dual role both as information providers and service providers [8 T h is suggests that the IS organization s service quality should also be measured with traditional measures such as Information and System Quality. In regard to the overall success of the IS organization \(and not the success of a single system\eLone and McLe suggested that the service quality construct may be the most important quality component Work on EA produces both products and services where the services might be crucial in facilitating the diffusion of the EA approach in the organization Therefore, measuring merely the quality of EA artifacts is insufficient. Kluge et u g g e s t ed, opposed to the original Service Quality construct definition, that the construct could represent EA presentation strategies. That is; who is allowed to read EA content, which contents can be read, and how the content is presented. However, in our view, these dimensions are about EA artifact quality g as a part of the Information Quality construct. Also the weaknesses related to the presentation strategies e.g. the lack of understandability and the lack of timeliness\oint towards information quality criteria We argue that the Service Quality construct should be defined according to its original definition   Product The construct represents the quality of various services \(as products\ provided by the EA function; that is, the stakeholders carrying out work on EA in the organization [e.g 3, 25 Serv ices are ty pical l y  com m unicationoriented requiring cooperation between the different stakeholders. Hence, measuring different characteristics of the quality of communication is emphasized [e.g. 21, 35 T h es e characteristics can be used to derive EAoriented communication metrics and further EA service quality metrics. Typical EA services include both EA reviews and EA guidance to ensure alignment of EA principles in the project and in between the projects Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  Process The process refers both to the quality of support services \(e.g. access and availability of experts and documents\ and the organizational IS services necessary for the functioning of the EA processes [c.f. 18, 35    Outcome The viewpoint represents the quality of services implemented according to or in compliance with EA. These services also include EA services if they are created according to or in compliance with EA   Impact From the EA impacts viewpoint there is no equivalent counterpart for this construct  4.4. Use  Originally the Use construct presented the consumption of the output of an IS by various recipients  A lth o u gh th e I S u s e a s a s u cce s s v a riable h a s  been criticized, it is still widely ut e v er especially informed and effective use remains an important indication of IS success although the frequency of use alone is insufficient measure. Instead, IS use should be approached and measured more extensively, including metrics related to the nature, extent, quality and appropriateness of us Kluge et al. [1 def i n e d th e EA g o v e rn a n ce s t rategy to be related to the Use construct. They stated that EA governance should act as an interface between various stakeholders, taking into account their specific needs. This definition does not correspond to the original definition. The more appropriate equivalents would be the use of EA products and services and the use of EA implementations. EA governance is a part of other constructs, namely Information Quality from the viewpoint of EA products \(e.g. how well the needs of various stakeholders are considered in the documentation and its representation\ and Service Quality from the point of view of EA products e.g. how well the needs of stakeholders are addressed when providing EA services   Product The construct represents the consumption of EA products and services that are the output of the EA processes. This ranges from the implementation of elements \(organizational structures, processes, systems, applications, and services o s u pportin g de cision-making processes, change management and business process design, system development, and project planning and steering [6, 17  u r in g t h e E A produ ct an d s e r v ice  use should be targeted to these processes and functions. Yet the complex nature of the construct should be taken into account [c.f   Process The definition of using EA processes is ambiguous as the processes are used indirectly through their output, i.e. through products. Rather, from this viewpoint, the Use construct refers to the extent in which the processes are carried out according to their descriptions, guidelines or best practices, i.e. according to specifications   Outcome The construct represents the consumption of the output of various implementations of EA, i.e. their use   Impact The construct refers to the consumption of the EA impacts, which, again, refers to the Net Benefits construct  4.5. Intention to Use  Because the Use construct can be interpreted in various ways, e.g. as either a behavior or an attitude DeLone and McLean gges t ed th at i n s o m e contexts, the Intention to Use construct could be used as an alternative. They acknowledged that because intention is an attitude, it is difficult to measure and even more difficult to link it with behavior \(use Hence, the Use construct might still be more feasible alternative e f o llo w t h i s sugg estio n an d a s s u m e  that the Use construct, with its multitude of dimensions, could be more feasible construct in most cases as intentions arise from business needs and strategies rather than from individuals and their perceptions  4.5. User Satisfaction  In the IS domain, the User Satisfaction construct represents the user s response to the use \(or consumption\ of the output of the system [7 o th sin gle-item and multi-item measures for the construct have been used to measure the users satisfaction Hence the selection of stakeholders is emphasized     Product The construct represents the stakeholders response to the consumption of the output of the EA processes, i.e. to EA products and services. Satisfaction metrics could therefore measure, for example, the satisfaction towards EA products and services, or towards individual products and services   Process The construct can be conceptualized as stakeholder s response to the activities in the EA processes, i.e. to what extent the actors operating in the processes are satisfied   Outcome The construct follows the original definition and represents stakeholders reProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


sponse to the use of the output of the specific implementation of EA, e.g. an IS   Impact With regard to EA impacts, the construct refers to the stakeholders response regarding the consumption of EA impacts, i.e. to what extent the stakeholders are satisfied with the realized impacts  4.6. Net Benefits  As IS impacts range from the individual user level to the whole economy and business environment DeLone and McLean hos e to k eep t h e m odel simple. The Net Benefits construct correspondingly presents all kinds of IS impacts, leaving the choice of granularity to the researcher In the EA domain, the construct should also take into account a wide range of EA benefits on different levels of granularity. As EA encompasses the whole organization, it may consequently produce a great number of impacts which are difficult to disentangle Because of this it has been difficult to define the benefits in concrete terms, developing metrics for them and defining causalities between various benefits [23  e n e f its ac h i ev able b y E A ide n ti f i ed i n literat u r e include, for instance, reduced costs, improved business-IT alignment, improved change and risk management, and shortened cycle times [24   A l s o   w h en  EA is implemented into an organization, it generates benefits that can be measured through its impact on business operations, e.g. bottlenecks identified from EA models. As EA consists of models for managing and developing the organization e ben e f its above may arise from both models and their usage This implies they may arise not only from using EA models for managing the architecture, but already from their development   Process, product and outcome EA benefits might be realized directly from EA processes resulting products and services, or from specific EA implementations. They can thus be conceptualized from the respective viewpoints   Impact Indirect benefits, on the other hand can be realized through direct ones and be conceptualized from the point of view of EA impacts, including all potential sources of impacts  5. Illustration of the Model in a Real-Life Case  To illustrate the use of the DeLone and McLean model in the EA context, we use the case description by Andersin and Hämäläinen d dis c u s s h o w some of the components are concretized in a real-life case. The case is chosen because it is one of the rare documented examples. It illustrates the initialization of the EA process in a Finnish telecommunication company, aiming to identify the factors that should be taken into account in the EA process initialization phase. Because of the early stage of the EA process we have excluded the Intention to Use construct, and the outcome and impact viewpoints from every construct   Information Quality EA work has produced several types of documentation in the company, e.g. EA models and principles. To measure the quality of information in these documents architectural documentation quality criteria  be s e lected accordin g to th e n e eds o f  the organization. Obtainability, understandability, availability, and ability to inform different stakeholders about the EA approach were considered important. Because of the early state of the EA process, not all of the quality criteria were applicable, e.g. documentation was not mature enough to enable measuring all dimensions of the content quality From the process viewpoint, the quality of information could be measured with a few selected generic quality attributes [e.g m e liness and reliability   System Quality Because of the early stage of the EA process, the quality of the process was needed to be measured to be able to observe and guide its improvement. The process was measurable as other processes in the organization. Generic quality criteria include cycle time \(e.g. the time to give architectural guidance to a project\ throughput \(e.g. the number of project that received architectural guidance\d costs \(e.g. average cost of a certain service produced   Service Quality The company s EA process is connected to strategy management, investment management, and project definition and support. The EA team offered EA services to these areas. A customized SERVQUAL instrument and adapted communication audit metrics can be exploited when developing service quality metrics to the viewpoint of EA products. Again, as the stakeholders might need EA guidance, it becomes the first candidate to measure. In this respect, project managers may act as data sources. General EArelated communication is also a measurement target as it indicates whether the stakeholders are aware of the EA products and services and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


whether they can utilize them. From the viewpoint of EA process, similar kind of instruments can be constructed. Feasible quality criteria includes stakeholder satisfaction toward EA guidance, EA models and principles, and the their knowledge how to obtain EA products and services in the organization   Use Measuring EA product use indicates whether the EA approach has been adopted in the organization. EA products can be used at least in the areas that are connected to the company s EA process. The attributes by DeLone and McLean ide a s t arti ng point  for developing appropriate metrics. The process viewpoint, on the other hand, is not yet important as the process is in an early stage. However, a customized EA process description compliance maturity instrument similar to EA compliance metrics [c.f could be developed. Feasible quality criteria include the distribution of projects that received EA guidance, that used EA models or principles; that received EA review, or that comply/do not comply with the results of EA review   User Satisfaction From the viewpoint of EA product, the User Satisfaction construct can be measured with a single-item metric, adapted from the IS domain. From the process point of view similar kind of measures can be developed. The metrics include, e.g. the stakeholders satisfaction toward EA or EA functions in general    Net Benefits The company s EA goals include complexity management, and increasing knowledge, flexibility and customer orientation. These goals are used as a starting point for development if e.g. the Goal Question Metric approach ad opted Ho w e v e r, th e  goals need to be concretized significantly before they can be measured. One feasible alternative is to chart the concrete EA-related needs of the most important stakeholders and derive a set of benefit measures from them Benefits could be measured from all of the viewpoints, but due to the stage of the EA process, they may remain exiguous and be thus difficult to quantify. It is also very challenging to link the benefits to a specific EA viewpoint or evidence that indirect benefits even result from EA. Also, the benefits need to be measured on a regular basis to enable later comparison, and to make it possible to draw conclusions about the EA benefits. In the initial phases of the EA process, selected metrics may not show any positive change and even if they do, conclusions should be drawn carefully since a number of other factors affect the metrics as well. Realized benefits may also need to be derived from indirect metrics. In this case, some criteria for measuring EA benefits include the number of systems \(management of complexity\he number of point-topoint interfaces \(management of complexity the time to implement a new business requirement to systems/processes \(increased flexibility\, the number of proactive/reactive change projects \(increased flexibility/knowledge\e level of stakeholder satisfaction toward EA s or EA function s support to decision making \(increased knowledge\e number of new improvements, features, services or products \(increased knowledge\stomer satisfaction \(increased customer orientation\, and the level of customer acquisition/retention \(increased cust omer orientation  6. Discussion  As seen, the DeLone and McLean IS Success Model seems to be usable in the EA context and in the EA benefit realization process. Our adapted model tailors the original model by expanding it with the four different viewpoints. Consequently, it can be used in describing the state of the EA benefit realization process. In this manner, causalities between different constructs can be examined and different factors facilitating the benefit realization can be recognized. This helps the identification of areas of improvement in EA processes, in product and implementation quality, and in the use of EA and its implementations. This way the maximum benefits are achievable with the minimum use of resources. Table 1 summarizes the constructs and EA viewpoints DeLone and McL p h a s ized t h e sign i ficance of the context in utilizing their model. This is especially important in the EA context, because of the organization-dependent nature of EA. The example above points out that at least following factors should be defined for guiding the development of metrics for the constructs   EA components available for use What EA process descriptions, EA products \(including services\ and EA implementations are available and measurable   Purposes of use For what purposes are the EA products and implementation used? Explicit definition of purposes is required in order to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


develop metrics for the quality of these components and their use    Users and their needs Who are the stakeholders using the EA components and what are their actual EA-related needs? The stakeholders are potential data sources, and their needs can provide clues on what could be the most important factors to be measured   Benefits of use What benefits could potentially be achieved by the usage of the different EA components? These can be used as a starting point for measuring the overall EA benefits Perhaps the most important aspect to be considered when planning an EA benefit evaluation is its scope. Since our adapted model covers four EA viewpoints and would thus require an extensive measurement system, there is a definite need to delimit the benefit evaluation process by carefully considering the most relevant viewpoints and constructs for evaluation. One way to do this is to consider the level of EA maturity or the phase of the EA initiative in the organization. For instance, if the EA process is at its initialization phase, as was the case in the example above, it is not feasible to measure the constructs from the EA implementation viewpoint, simply because no implementations exist. Moreover, as EA benefits may take a long time to unfold their measurement could sometimes be postponed until a certain level of EA maturity has been achieved. Also measuring the quality attributes of the EA processes might not always be sensible particularly when the EA maturity is low. In such a situation the product quality might be more relevant target. EA product use, on the other hand, is a construct not to be disregarded. This is because it indicates whether the products are actually utilized. It also gives an indication whether any benefits might ever be realized. However, as it is difficult to directly link realized benefits to EA, it is eventually important to measure all of the constructs to establish the causal relationships and use them as evidence of EA s impact It should be noted that beside EA benefits, the adapted DeLone and McLean model includes constructs related to the quality of EA processes, products and implementations. In this sense, the adapted model also encompasses areas included in EA maturity models. Yet our model adopts more holistic and comprehensive view of EA quality and its contribution to EA benefits. It can be used as a framework to plan EA measurement and eventually to establish the causal relationships between EA benefit metrics and factors contributing them. In contrast maturity models only give a general idea of the overall quality of EA products and processes without strong, objective empirical evidence as proven causalities The original DeLone and McLean model is limited in the sense that it does not consider the quality of development processes. Our adapted model takes this into account through the process viewpoint. Although this complicates the model and makes the measurement system more complex, it provides a basis to decide the most relevant factors for any particular context at any moment of time. Another weakness in our model is that it does not consider different types of EA processes separately but treats them as one construct. This raises the question Table 1. The DeLone and McLean model constructs and EA viewpoints  Process Product Outcome Impact Information Quality Quality of information used in EA processes Quality of EA artifacts Quality of information produced by implemented EA No direct equivalent System Quality Quality of EA processes No direct equivalent Quality of implemented EA No direct equivalent Service Quality Quality of support services to the EA function Quality of EA services Quality of organizational services constructed according to EA No direct equivalent Intention to Use No direct equivalent Potential alternative to the Use construct Potential alternative to the Use construct No direct equivalent Use Functioning of the processes according to specifications Consumption of EA products by stakeholders Consumption of the output of implemented EA by stakeholders No direct equivalent User Satisfaction Stakeholder s response to the functioning of EA processes Stakeholder s response to the use of EA products Stakeholder s response to the use of implemented EA Stakeholder s response to the consumption of EA impacts Net Benefits Direct benefits from EA processes Direct benefits from EA products Direct benefits from implemented EA Indirect benefits    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


whether the causal relationships can be identified and measured. However, the constructs we have defined provide a starting point for EA benefit evaluation and for developing a detailed benefit evaluation model to any particular context. Yet this remains to be confirmed by further research because of the limited validation of the ideas presented. In this respect, this paper provides a conceptual basis for adapting, tailoring and validating the DeLone and McLean model for the EA benefit realization process  7. Conclusions  This exploratory study aimed to adapt the DeLone and McLean IS Success o r des c ribing t h e  EA benefit realization process. Consequently, the study scrutinized the seven constructs contributing to EA benefit realization from four different viewpoints namely process, product, outcome and impact. Ideas on describing the constructs and their related metrics in the EA context were presented. Subsequently an example of how the adapted model can be used in real organizations was described This study contributes primarily to the research domain by clarifying the EA benefits realization process, and the concepts of EA processes, products outcomes and impacts, for initiating further research and discussion. This guides and structures the future research efforts, similarly to the original DeLone and McLean paper, potentially building towards cumulative tradition of EA research. Also, as the phenomenon is very complex, we have not even attempted to define a new EA success model but rely on the original DeLone and McLean version which could serve as a basis on such an endeavor. Practitioners can utilize the arguments from this paper when clarifying the use of EA concepts and when initiating discussion on EA measurement and improvement. More generally the adaptation of DeLone and McLean model to EA context reveals and concretizes some challenges and issues that need to be considered when planning the EA assessment activities. Particularly the scope and focus need to be decided before proper evaluation is sensible and possible. Also, our analysis helps one to identify appropriate stakeholders both as data sources and as being swayed by future EA activities As with the original DeLone and McLean model also our adapted model needs for further validation through empirical studies. Especially the interrelationships between the constructs should be studied to discover how each construct contributes to the realization of EA benefits in reality. Preceding this, the constructs should be examined further and feasible metrics developed. Further research efforts could also focus on prioritizing the viewpoints to be covered by a generic EA measurement system  8. Reference  1 A  A nde rs in a nd N  H  m  l i n e n  E nte r pris e A r c h ite c ture Process of a Telecommunication Company A Case Study on Initialization", Proceed ings of HAAMAHA 2007 9-12 July, Poznan, Poland, 2007 2 F.J  A r m our a nd S.H  K a is le r  E nte r pris e A r c h ite c t ure   Agile Transition and Implementation", IT Professional IEEE Computer Society, Vol.3, No.6, 2001, pp. 30-37 3 F.J  A r m our, S.H  K a is le r, a nd S  Y  L i u B uil d ing a n  Enterprise Architecture Step by Step", IT Professional IEEE Computer Society, Vol.1, No.4, 1999, pp. 31-39 4  V  R. Ba sili G  Ca ldie ra a nd H.D. Rom ba c h  T he  G o a l  Question Metric Paradigm Encyclopedia of Software Engineering John Wiley & Sons, New York, USA, 1994 pp. 528 532 5 P. B e rnus L  N e m e s  a nd G  Sc h m idt, H a ndbook o n  Enterprise Architecture, Springer-Verlag, 2003 6 T  Buc h e r R. Fis c he r, S  K u rpj u w e it, a nd R. W i nte r   Enterprise Architecture Analysis and Application - An Exploratory Study", Proceedings of TEAR 2006, 16 October, Hong Kong, China, 2006 7 W  D e L one a nd E. McL e a n Inf orm a tion Sy s t em s Suc cess: The Quest for the Dependent Variable", Information Systems Research, 3\(1\, 1992, pp. 60-95 8 W  D e L one a nd E. McL e a n, "T he De L one a nd McL e a n  Model of Information Systems Success: A Ten-Year Update", Journal of Management Information Systems, 19 4\03, pp. 9-30  W  H DeL o n e and E  R  M c L e an  M easu ri n g eCommerce Success: Applying the DeLone & McLean Information Systems Success Model", International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 9\(1\004, pp. 31-47 10 G  G  G a ble  D  Se de ra a n d T  Cha n  E nte r pr is e Sy s tems Success: A Measurement Model", Proceedings of the ICIS 2003, 14-17 December, Seattle, USA, 2003 11 E.J  G a rrity a nd G  L  Sa nde rs  I ntroduc t i o n to Inf o rmation Systems Success Measurement Information Systems Success Measurement Idea Group Publishing, Hershey, USA, 1998, pp. 1-12 12 F. G o e t ha ls M. S noe c k W  L e m a hie u a nd J  Va nde nbulcke, "Managements and enterprise architecture click The FAD\(E\E framework", Information Systems Frontiers 8\(2\ 2006, pp. 67-79 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


1 R. Hirsch h e im H.K. Klein  an d K. Lyy tin en In f o rmation systems development and data modeling: conceptual and philosophical foundations, Cambridge University Press, New York, USA, 1995 1 K Hj o r t M a d s en E n t erp r i s e A r ch i t ect u r e Im p l e m en tation and Management: A Case Study on Interoperability Proceedings of the 39th Annua l Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS '06\ 4-7 January Kauai, Hawaii, 2006 15 C  W  H o ls a pple a nd A  L e e Pos t  D e f i ning A s se s s ing, and Promoting E-Learning Success: An Information Systems Perspective", Decision Sciences Journal of Innovative Education, 4\(1\ 2006, pp. 67-85 16 N  H m  l ine n a nd J Ma rk k u la  Q ua lity Ev a l ua tion  Question Framework for Assessing the Quality of Architecture Documentation", Proceedings of the International BCS Conference on Software Quality Management \(SQM 2007\, August 1-2, Tampere, Finland, 2007 17 H  J o nk e r s  M. L a nk hors t  H  te r D o e s t, F. A r ba b, H   Bosma, and R. Wieringa, "Enterprise architecture: Management tool and blueprint for the organization", Information Systems Frontiers 8\(2\2006, pp. 63-66 18 S.H. Ka isle r, F. A r m our, a nd M V a liv ulla h   E nte r prise Architecting: Critical Problems", Proceedings of the 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences HICSS'05\3-6 January, Hawaii, USA, 2005 1 C Kl u g e A  Di et zsch  an d M  Ro sem a n n  Ho w t o  Realise Corporate Value from Enterprise Architecture Proceedings of the 14th European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2006\12-14 June, Göteborg, Sweden 2006 2 U R K u l k arn i  S  Ravi n d ran  an d R  F r eeze  A  Knowledge Management Success Model: Theoretical Development and Empirical Validation", Journal of Management Information Systems 23\(3\ 2007, pp. 309-347 2  M  L a n k h o r st  E n terp r i se A r ch itectu r e at W o rk M o d elling, Communication, and Analysis, Springer-Verlag Berlin, Germany, 2005 22 R.O   Ma s o n   M e a s uring Inf orm a tion Outpu t: A  Communication Systems Approach", Information & Management 1\(5\, 1978, pp. 219-234 23 J  M  Mor g a nw a l p a nd A  P  Sa g e  E nte r pr is e  A r c h itecture Measures of Effectiveness", International Journal of Technology, Policy and Management, 4\(1\2004, 81-94 2 E  Ni em i  E n t erp r i s e A r ch i t ect u r e Ben e f i t s  P e rcep tions from Literature and Practice", Proceedings of the 7th IBIMA Conference on Internet & Information Systems in the Digital Age, 14-16 December, Brescia, Italy, 2006 2 E  Ni em i  E n t erp r i s e A r ch i t e ct u r e S t akeh o l d e rs - A  Holistic View", Proceedings of the 13th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2007\, August 912, Keystone, Colorado, USA, 2007 26  M Pulk k i ne n a n d A  H i rv on e n  E A P l a n n i ng D e v e lopment and Management Process for Agile Enterprise Development", Proceedings of the 38th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS '05 January, Hawaii, USA, 2005 2 J F  Riley   P ro cess M a n a ge m e n t    Juran's Quality Handbook McGraw-Hill, New York, USA, 1998, pp 28 J. Ross a nd P  W e ill, Unde rsta nding the Be ne f its of Enterprise Architecture, CISR Research Briefings 2005 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, USA 2005 29 C.L  Sc ha u pp, W  Fa n, a n d F. Be la ng e r  D e t em ining  Success for Different Website Goals", Proceedings of the 39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences HICSS-39\, 4-7 January, Kauai, Hawaii, USA, 2006 30 W  Se de ra  G   G a ble   a nd M. R o s e m a nn M e a s u ring  Process Modelling Success", Proceedings of the 10th European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2002\, 6-8 June, Gdansk, Poland, 2002 3 C E  S h an no n a n d W  W e aver  T h e M a t h e m at i c al  Theory of Communication, University of Illinois Press Urbana, USA, 1949 32 J  F Sow a a nd J  A  Za c h m a n E x t e ndi ng a n d Form a lizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture", IBM Systems Journal 31\(3\, 1992, pp. 590-616 3 T h e O p en G r o u p  T h e Op en G r o u p A r ch i t ect u r e Framework version 8.1.1, Enterprise Edition \(TOGAF 8.1.1\ 2006. Available http://www.opengroup.org/architecture/togaf  34 B  v a n de r R a a d t, J  Soe t e n da l, M P e rde c k  a nd H  v   Vliet, "Polyphony in Architecture ", Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Software Engineering ICSE 2004\23-28 May, 2004 3 T  Ylim ki P o t en t i al Cri tical S u ccess F acto r s f o r Enterprise Architecture", Journal of Enterprise Architecture 2\(4\, 2006, pp. 29-40 36 T  Y lim  k i, "T ow a r ds a G e ne ric Ev a l ua tion M ode l f o r Enterprise Architecture", Journal of Enterprise Architecture 3\(3\, 2007, pp. 9-16   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


along the way suggesting that such data should take redundant disconnected paths to its destination Therefore we propose that the activity and network simulation infrastructure be expanded upon to simulate proposed Constellation activities Note that the original model was developed with Constellation in mind This framework would be used to evaluate complex Constellation communications scenarios and develop further required extensions to core information models Ideally the framework would be adapted to utilize space based messaging technologies such as the Delay Tolerant Network DTN With greater numbers of robots producing science and engineering data the problem of managing distribution of data becomes increasingly need-driven of ensuring that the right information gets to the right destination based upon the relative priority of such data Based upon our communications study to date we feel confidant that the proposed architecture of object-based communications built on shared models of information content and relationship is capable of providing systemwide information coherency in the complex space network environment ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The work described in this paper was conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration The authors wish to further acknowledge other individuals who made key contributions to research and development including Marti DeMore Lloyd DeForrest Michael Pajevski and Steven Scandore REFERENCES 1 Akyildiz Ian F et al State of the Art in Interplanetary Internet IEEE Communications Magazine July 2004 2 Matijevic J et al Mars Sample Return Spacecraft Systems Architecture IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 2000 3 A.-M Harri et al Network Science Landers For Mars Adv Space Res Vol 23/11 1999 4 Bradley J Clement Steven R Schaffer Distributed Network Scheduling Proceedings of the 4th International NASA Workshop on Planning and Scheduling for Space 2004 5 Gao Jay L Leang Dee A Demand Access Protocol for Space Applications IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007 BIOGRAPHY Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 16 years He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a messagebased ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontology-based distributed communications Joseph Hutcherson is a senior engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He has been a key figure in the development of the SharedNet since its inception He has also worked on a Java-based adaptation of the Mission Data System control system supported the development and testing of a multi-channel communication system using Iridium satellite phones and most recently developing flight software for a re-usable software and hardware architectural platform 11 


Implant Application 1 Low level analog signal Stimulation Sensor interface Signal digitized and formatted Transmitter Application  receiver controller with MAC RF encoded packets of data Data packets organised into function Change response or cause direct stimulation 


Product Design and Manufacture 225 Work with end product manufacturer Each design is unique 225 No off the peg solution 225 Thorough testing during product development 225 Work with component suppliers 225 World class manufacturing capability 225 Post manufacture test and burn in 225 Reliable parts shipped on time NO SURPRISES NO CHANGES NOTHING EXCITINGI 


Module Encapsulated ZL70101 Crystal Matching network Antenna connection 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


