Privacy Concerns, Trust in Government and Attitudes to Identity Cards in the United Kingdom    Adam N. Joinson School of Management, University of Bath  A.Joinson@bath.ac.uk    Abstract  In the present paper, the links between privacy concerns, trust in the Government and compulsion are examined in light of people s attitudes towards Identity Cards in the United Kingdom. A total of 404 respondents from both politically active and student 
groups were presented with scenarios for the implementation of ID Cards in which the degree of compulsion was varied. Their levels of privacy concern about ID Cards and trust in the Government were also measured. The perceived degree of compulsion privacy concerns and trust in the Government predicted attitudes to Identity Cards. Mediation and moderation analyses were conducted to examine the relationship between privacy, trust and ID Card attitudes. It was found that the impact of privacy concern on attitudes was moderated by trust, such that amongst respondents with lower privacy concerns, lack of trust moderated this to lead to negative attitudes 
towards Identity Cards. Implications are discussed   1. Introduction   E-government initiatives tend to impose a privacy cost on citizens, whether through data sharing between Government departments, requests for \(or the collection of\personal and identifying information, and the requirement for the storage of that same data [24  h is led [2 9] to note th at a çcritical obs tacle in realizing e-government is the citizens' concern on privacy of their life and confidentiality of the personal data they are providing as part of obtaining government servicesé \(p. 134\. Compared to the use of e-commerce, e-government also often demands  information from citizens rather than requests it [47 a  
compulsion that may make any privacy violation particularly difficult to manage [28     The relationship betw een peopleês privacy concerns and their willingness to accept \(or reject privacy threatening t echnologies is neither straightforward nor well understood [1, 28 There  are multiple studies to suggest that reported privacy concerns rarely lead people to take privacy protecting action [1, 35, 41 r, i ndi vi dual s may t a ke privacy into account when the nature of the activity is particularly sensitive \(e.g. purchasing condoms rather than a book; [2 or w h en they ha ve hi gh privacy  self-efficacyê [30 ithin the realm of e-governme nt cultural differences in privacy concern and trust in government have also been identified as key issues in 
determining acceptance [4, 15   A key variable identified in e-commerce research as critical to understanding the link between privacy concerns and behavior is trust 8, 14, 16, 32, 35  Trust can be defined as the willingness of a party to be vulnerable to the actions of another party based on the expectation that the other will perform a particular action important to the trustor, irrespective of the ability to monitor or control that other party p. 712 33  P u t m o re si m p l y it is th e willingness to be 
vulnerable, based on positive expectations about the actions of others  p.1 Trust incorporates a number of different dimensions including the trustee s ability to fulfill the trusting action, their integrity, and the benevolence of their intentions  In terms of e-government, trust has also been identified as critical in the acceptance of potentially privacy violating technologies [12, 13, 44, 47 cas es where trustworthiness is in question, acceptance levels 
may reduce. For instance, 11% of Icelandic citizens opted out the country s DNA database after government attempts to sell access to commercial researchers T h e Un ited King do m Nation a l Au dit  Offi rts th at, althou gh th e i m ple m e n tatio n of e-government in vehicle licensing was successful, it may need to revisit its conclusions in light of the impact of recent data protection failures on customer usage and costs This concern echoes earlier reports by the US GAO e-gov ernm en t 
that note the importance of providing secure transactions, protecting consumer privacy and enabling trust    While the role of trust in determining people s willingness to forgo privacy concerns has been reasonably well established [16, 32 th e ex act  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


nature of the relationship between privacy, trust and behavior hypothesized by researchers tends to vary Most commonly, trust is predicted to mediate the link between privacy concerns and behavior [e.g. 34, 32  its tradition a l se n s e  m e diatio n ref e rs to t h e  effect of an independent variable on a dependent variable being explained by common links to a third variable \(i.e. the mediator For in s t an ce, a  correlation between income and cancer might be explained by a correlation between income and smoking \(the mediator\d then between smoking and cancer. Thus, according to mediation models privacy has little or no direct effect on behavior path a  in Figure 1\tead any effect can be explained by the links between privacy and trust path b d then between trust and behavior path c      Figure 1: Privacy Trust Mediation   An alternative approach towards understanding the relationship between related variables is moderation 6  Moderation is when the impact of a variable on an outcome measure \(for instance, vitamin supplements on health\ altered by the status of a moderator \(e.g vitamin plus precondition leads to negative outcome absence of precondition leads to positive outcomes the case of privacy and trust, it may be that the effect of privacy on behavior is moderated by trust, such that in conditions of high trust, privacy concern exerts an influence on behavior, while in low trust environments privacy concern may have a negligible impact on behavior since behavior is limited by trust concerns. In the present study, mediator and moderator relationships between privacy concerns, trust in Government and attitudes towards Identity Cards are studied  1.1 Identity Cards   A critical component of e-government is the identification and authentication of citizens to Government agencies [13, 14 man y c ountries this  is achieved through the provision and use of a single identifier \(e.g. identity card or social security number which increasingly poses dangers for citizens in terms of identity theft and fraud [22, 31 Many Western countries without a form of identity card \(e.g. the United States, United Kingdom, Australia\have taken steps towards either the introduction of a specific identity card \(in the case of the UK\he standardization of identity documents across States e.g. REAL ID in the USA\. The focus of the present paper is the introduction of an Identity Card and related database in the United Kingdom  The possibility of identity cards was first proposed by the current UK Government in 2002 as an entitlement card i.e. to prove one s identity in order to claim healthcare and other benefits\his proposal became an Identity Card that was included in the manifesto of the Labour Party in the 2005 election Following their re-election, the Identity Card Bill was presented to Parliament in May 2005, and was finally passed in March 2006  The planned UK Identity Card has been controversial for a number of reasons. First, the implementation method chosen requires a centralized database \(called the National Identity Register or NIR\ against which identity claims and biometrics are compared. Alongside biometrics, the NIR will also contain up to 51 pieces of information about an individual, including current and past addresses. Each time the National Identity Register is queried, a log of the request is stored on the system, posing a possible privacy threat through the accumulation of data footprints  er, th e us e of a centralized database to manage the NIR has led to a number of security-based concerns as  w e ll as t h e  possibility that it will be a choke point for requests or a target for denial of service attacks 22 Second, it has been claimed that the plans of the UK Government lack clear well-defined goals 31, 49 For instance during the passage of the legislation, the introduction of ID Cards was claimed to tackle identity theft and terrorism, but in neither case were the reasons for these claims explicated 49 Finally, it has been argued that the costs of the scheme were grossly underestimated by the UK Government 31   The introduction of Identity Cards in the UK has also raised concerns amongst civil liberty, privacy and data-protection groups \(see http://www.no2id.net Indeed, public acceptance of Identity Cards has been reducing, from approximately 75% of the population in favor in 2004 to around 50% in 2007  1.2 Compulsion and Identity Cards   The manifesto pledge by the Labour Party in 2005 was that ID Cards would be voluntary. However, the Identity Card Bill as presented by the UK Government legislated that there would be no such opt-out, and that  Privacy Trust Behavior path a path c path b Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


people would be required to have an ID Card when applying for a passport \(the argument being that choice came through whether or not to apply for a passport  At the time of the present research, the ID Card Bill was subject to an amendment focused on whether or not the ID Card, and entry of personal details to the proposed National Identity Register \(NIR\would be voluntary or compulsory. The specific amendment proposed by the House of Lords sought to enable people to opt-out of an ID Card when applying for a new passport or renewing an existing passport  Within the literature on privacy and data protection, consumer and citizen control and choice is  s t an ce th e UK Da ta P r otection  A c t  1998\quires that data subjects are informed that data is collected, and given the choice as to whether or not to provide their information. [17  rep o rts to th e FTC that privacy policies should incorporate informed consent from data subjects. In terms of e-government and interactions between citizens and state, issues of choice are muddied. In many cases the state may require \(or demand\formation \(e.g. tax returns census data\nd may punish those who do not comply. Similarly, in terms of proving one s entitlement to state aid \(e.g. healthcare, unemployment benefits, tax credits or refunds\, non-compliance exerts a direct cost on individuals in terms of non-provision of goods or services  However, in most cases this degree of compulsion is accepted by citizens because there is a clear need for the information, or a clear public good [18 In th e  case of ID cards, given the lack of clarity of goals for their introduction e rh aps n o t su rprisi ng t h at  the issue of choice became central to arguments about their implementation  The aim of the present study was two fold. The first was to examine the impact of choice and compulsion on attitudes towards Identity Cards in the UK. The second was to examine the impact of privacy concerns and trust in the Government on attitudes towards Identity Cards. Two populations are studied  politically active Internet users and mature students  in order to examine if the same pattern of relationships between privacy concerns, trust, control and attitudes exist in diverse groups  2. Research Study 2.1 Participants   Participants were recruited from a number of sources. The politically active participants were recruited through postings on three UK politics discussion groups: uk.politics, uk.politics.id-cards and on the Westminster forum of http://www.politicsforum.co.uk Postings on general Open University UK student discussion boards were used to recruit the student participants. The Open University is a large distance education higher education institution with a diverse student body Given the nature of the recruitment, response rate information is not available. Level of political involvement was inferred from group membership although of course this does not rule out the possibility that some student group members were also politically active  In all cases, participants were directed to an online survey hosted by the Open University online survey system \(called ELSA\he front page of the survey randomly assigned participants using JavaScript to one of three conditions, \(1\ULSION \(2 LOW COMPULSION \(3\ COMPULSION with CONTROL. These conditions approximated the implementation of Identity Cards as proposed by the UK Government \(1\e Lords amendment \(2\d the London School of Economics \(3\he design of the study materials and experimental manipulations is shown in Figure 2    Figure 2: Experimental design   An alternative procedure \(season of birth\ was automatically used if people did not have JavaScript enabled on their browser. The ELSA system also sets a session-based cookie to help track multiple sessions and records the IP number associated with each submission to identify multiple submissions  Consent and javascript allocation Post-scenario attitudes Pre-scenario attitudes Pre-scenario attitudes Pre-scenario attitudes Privacy and Trust measures Scenario 1 High compulsion Scenario 2: Low compulsion Scenario 3: Low compulsion with control Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 The data collected was cleaned in a number of ways. First, any responses with less than 50% of items answered were discarded. Second, the server log files were examined for instances of multiple submission There were no cases of multiple submissions with the same session based cookie. There were 39 instances where a response shared an IP with another response Examination of these responses showed that in 37 cases, the IP belonged to the proxy or cache server of a large UK-based Internet Service Provider. In 8 cases the shared IP was identified as belonging to different people because one record originated from an internal Open University posting, and the second from a public posting. In these cases the data was retained. In the remaining 31 cases, the data was discarded from the analyses  2.1.1 Participants   There were 181 responses from the postings to the three politics groups. Of these, 137 \(75.7% were male and 41 female \(22.5%\ographic data was missing for three people. The mean age of the sample was 36 years \(SD = 12.92  There were 223 responses from the postings to Open University student tutorial groups. Of these, 66 were male \(29.6%\d 156 female \(70%\d data was missing for 1 respondent. The mean age was 39 years old \(SD = 11.49  3. Measures 3.1 Pre-manipulation Identity Card attitudes   Participants were first asked to respond to the question The United Kingdom Government is planning to introduce Identity Cards and a National Identity Register. What is your attitude to this proposal using a 7-point scale anchored at \(1 Strongly against ID cards and \(7 Strongly in favour of ID cards They were also asked How certain are you about your attitude towards ID cards in the UK  as a measure of attitude strength \(7-point scale anchored at \(7 Very certain and \(1 Very uncertain articipants who are not UK citizens, or who do not live in the UK, were excluded from any analyses of ID card attitudes n 6  3.2 Implementation of Identity Cards   Participants were instructed that  There are various ways in which an identification card system can be operationalized. Please read the outline below carefully, and imagine what your attitude towards a UK-wide identity card would be if the system were like this    An implementation scenario then followed the introduction. The scenario proposed varied across a single dimension based on differing options proposed by the UK Government, the Lords amendment and the LSE. Each scenario was pre-tested for ease of understanding, and matched for word-count. The scenarios were based on those used in previous research h e com pon e n t parts o f t h e s c e n arios were   UK Government \(UKG When you apply for a new or renewed passport you will be compelled to also have an Identity Card. You will be told to report with existing documents \(e.g. birth ce rtificate, old passport national insurance number\ to a named processing centre at a specified time. You would need to allow yourself to be fingerprinted, have your iris scanned and your photograph taken  Lords Amendment When you apply for a new or renewed passport you will be given the choice of whether or not to also have an Identity Card. If you choose to also apply for an Identity Card, you will be told to report with existing documents \(e.g. birth certificate, old passport, national insurance number\ to a named processing centre at a specified time. You would need to allow yourself to be fingerprinted, have your iris scanned and your photograph taken   London School of Economics \(LSE When you apply for a new or renewed passport you will be given the choice of whether or not to also have an Identity Card. To get an identity card, you would visit a post office and enter a kiosk at the time of your choosing. You would choose the biometric identifier you wished to use e.g. fingerprint, digital photograph or iris scan The kiosk would automatically generate a form which you would get validated by two people in a position of trust. You then send this form to receive your card   In all three cases, the National Identity Register NIR\ proposed by the Government was also included in the scenario. The wording was identical in the Lords and LSE scenarios, and the If you choose to have an ID card part was omitted in the UK Government version Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 National Identity Register part of scenarios If you choose to have an ID card, your biometric identification, along with information like your name, date and place of birth, current and all previous addresses and driving licence number and expiry date \(along with other relevant information\ would be stored in a centralized government database. This database would be held securely by the Government, and could be queried by all other government departments, the police, public service providers \(e.g. NHS\ and approved private sector organizations \(e.g. banks employers   When participants accessed the front page of the study \(which contained basic information and contact details about the researchers\ey were randomly directed to one of the three different scenarios. Thus each participant only responded to a single scenario  Following the scenario, participants were asked If this were the way in which ID cards were to be introduced, what would your attitude towards identity cards in the UK be and How certain are you about your attitude towards ID cards if this scenario were the one introduced using the same scales for the prescenario measures. A measure of attitude shift was calculated by subtracting the scenario attitude score from the pre-scenario attitude, such that a negative score meant a shift against ID cards, and a positive score, a shift in favor of ID cards. Participants were also asked In this scenario, to what extent would you consider yourself to have been forced to comply to receive an identity card This question was answered using a 7-point scale anchored at Not at all forced  and Very forced   On the final page of the study, participants completed a short measure to test their privacy attitudes eir tru s t in  the UK Gov e r n m e n t t h r ee  questions, see below\ and the perceived threat to their privacy of the ID Card proposals \(two questions, see below  3.3 Trust in the UK Government   Participants completed three questions The United Kingdom Government can be trusted  The United Kingdom Government is competent enough to create a secure Identity Card system and The United Kingdom Government is motivated by the desire to protect its citizen's best interests using a 4 point scale anchored at Strongly Agree  Somewhat Agree  Somewhat Disagree and Strongly Disagree No neutral option was provided to reduce satisficing These items cover three dimensions often associated with the measurement of trust: general trust competence and benevolence. The trust scale had an alpha of .82, showing acceptable internal reliability  3.4 Perceived Privacy Threat of ID Cards   Participants also completed two items designed to measure the perceived privacy threat of ID cards The introduction of Identity Cards in the UK is a threat to people's personal privacy and Data collected as part of the Identity Card system would be treated confidentially Reversed\sing the same 4-point Likert scale for Trust. The perceived privacy items had an alpha of .60, showing low but acceptable internal reliability for a two item scale  As would be expected, the privacy and trust scales were correlated \(r = .71, p<.001\onfirmatory factor analysis using principal axis factoring with a forced two factor solution and Oblimin rotation supported the creation of two scales  4. Results and Discussion   A manipulation check was conducted to see if the level of perceived compulsion differed across scenarios. There was a main effect of scenario on perceived compulsion F 2, 390\31.2 p 000 Post hoc Scheffe tests confirmed that the UKG implementation led to higher perceived compulsion scores \(Mean = 5.99\pared to the Lords  amendment version \(Mean = 4.56 p 001\d the LSE version \(Mean = 4.01 p 001\he Lords and LSE scenarios did not differ significantly in their level of perceived compulsion p 25  4.1 Politics and OU groups general attitudes   The initial attitudes of the politics and student groups differed significantly in both their attitudes towards ID Cards, the certainty with which they held those attitudes, their trust in the UK Government, the perceived privacy violation posed by ID Card proposals, and their general privacy concerns \(see Table 1  Participants in the politics groups were more antiID Cards, held these attitudes with greater certainty distrusted the government more, perceived ID cards as a greater threat to privacy, and had greater general privacy concerns. However, even amongst OU students, who on average were in favor of ID cards levels of distrust in the UK Government and the perceived privacy threat of ID cards were still relatively high Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 Table 1: Politics versus OU Students: general attitudes \(Mean, SD\ and one-way ANOVA results  Group Measure Politics Mean SD Open University Mean SD F df=1 385 p  Pre-scenario attitudes to ID Cards 1.62 1.34 3.99 2.16 162.08 .000  Pre-scenario certainty of attitudes 6.27 1.50 5.22 1.87 37.07 .000 Distrust in UK Government 3.64 0.53 3.05 0.70 85.98 .000 Privacy threat of ID Card proposals 3.66 0.59 2.99 0.80 84.60 .000 Westin-Harris Privacy score 2.94 0.59 2.78 0.55 7.86 .005  4.2 Attitude change   A measure of attitude change was calculated by subtracting post-scenario attitudes from pre-scenario attitudes. The average ID Card attitude change was negative \(Mean = -.41 SD 1.23\, indicating a move against ID cards across all three scenarios  4.2.1. Scenarios and attitude change   In the following analyses, the responses of the politics participants and the OU students are analyzed separately  The presentation of different implementation scenarios did not have a significant effect on attitude change F 2, 214\ 1.20 p 31\ or the certainty of the later attitude F 2, 213 p 82\ongst the student participants   The presentation of different implementation scenarios also did not have a significant effect on attitude change for the politics groups F 2,172\ = .97 p 38\ Interestingly, attitude change towards ID cards was positive when the LSE scenario was presented \(the only positive shift in any condition  However, the scenario presented did have an impact on the certainty of the later attitude F 2, 172 3.20 p 04\bers of the politics groups were less certain of their attitude when faced with the LSE approach \(Mean = 5.95, SD=1.83\, compared to the Lords amendment \(Mean = 6.46, SD=1.36\d the UK Government approach \(Mean = 6.62, SD=1.29  4.3. Trust in Government, privacy attitudes and ID Cards   As noted earlier, the two groups of participants had differing attitudes towards the Government, ID cards and general levels of privacy concern. A linear multiple regression was calculated in order to examine the impact of the perceived privacy threat of ID cards general privacy concerns and  levels of trust in the government on respondents post-scenario attitudes. A regression was first calculated to examine the impact of age, gender and source \(politics groups vs. students on post-scenario attitudes. Age and gender were not significant, but source did significantly predict postscenario attitudes  40, p<.001\. As such, the source of the participants \(political groups vs students\nd their pre-scenario attitudes were entered into the regression equatio n as control variables. The results of the analyses are shown in Table 2  Table 2: Multiple regression: Dependent variable: Post-scenario attitude toward ID Cards \(R 2 75, p<.000  Variable  t p Politics vs. Students 01 18 86 Pre-scenario attitudes 51 10.69 00 Pre-scenario attitude certainty 06 2.20 .03 Presented scenario 02 69 49 Perceived compulsion in scenario 14 -4.10 .00 Distrust in Government 11 2.67 01 Perceived privacy threat of ID cards 26 -5.65 .00 Mean Westin Score 01 32 75   As might be expected, participants attitudes towards Identity Cards, and the certainty with which they held those attitudes, predicted their attitudes postscenario. Interestingly, the actual scenario presented did not predict their attitudes post-scenario, whereas the perceived level of compulsion presented by the scenario did Finally, respondents level of distrust in the government, and the perceived privacy threat posed by Identity Cards also predicted post-scenario attitudes  The results of the regression also suggest that the level of political involvement of the respondent is not in itself important rather, it is the attitudes towards the UK Government \(UKG\d the privacy implications of ID Cards that explain the differences between the groups reported earlier  Once pre-scenario attitudes were taken into account, the next strongest predictor of attitudes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


towards ID Cards was the perceived privacy threat of the ID Card proposals, followed by the perceived degree of compulsion involved in ID Cards. As reported earlier, the UKG approach was seen as involving the highest amount of compulsion, although given that scenario type was not significant, we should also assume an affective component to this evaluation alongside the content of the scenarios. Third, the level of distrust in the UKG also predicted post-scenario attitudes to ID Cards, such that higher levels of distrust led to more negative attitudes. Finally, the certainty with which pre-scenario attitudes were held also predicted post-scenario attitudes if pre-scenario attitudes were less certain, this led to more negative attitudes after the scenario was presented  The results of the regression strongly suggest that privacy concerns associated with ID Cards, distrust of Government and perceived compulsion of the implementation, significantly predict people s attitudes towards ID Cards. These results are in keeping with considerable research within the Human-Computer Interaction and e-commerce fields that have highlighted the importance of trust in people s response to privacy threats. That perceived compulsion was also a significant predictor, while scenario type was not, strongly suggests an affective element to control as best expressed by the LSE scenario  4.4: Privacy, Trust and Attitudes to ID Cards   The mediation of perceived privacy threat by trust on attitudes towards Identity Cards was tested using a series of regression equations     Figure 3: Privacy Trust mediation \(*** = p<.001   The direct effect \(standardized estimate perceived privacy threat on attitudes was -.78 \(p<.001 when tested alone, and -.61 \(p<.001\hen tested alongside distrust. This pattern of results suggests that the impact of perceived privacy is partially mediated by trus t th at a s t ron g direct ef f ect re m a i n s t h at  is not mediated \(see Figure 3  To investigate a possible moderator relationship between these variables, a multiplicative composite was created by multiplying perceived privacy threat with distrust e n bot h t h e i n depen d e n t a n d  dependent variables are continuous \(and a moderator relationship is suspected to be linear\mmon to create a moderator variable \(called a multiplicative composite\d then to enter it into a multiple regression alongside the predictor variable \(X\d the moderator \(Z e  m oderator v a riable i s  significant, this suggests that there the impact of X on Y is moderated by Z \(although there may still be direct effects between the predictor variable and the criterion variable\his regression equation predicted 65% of people s attitudes towards ID Cards, with the composite variable also adding significantly to the prediction \(see Figure 4 for Standardized estimates of effect sizes and the R 2     Figure 4: Privacy X Trust moderation p<.01, *** = p<.001   The moderation analyses show that while citizen s privacy concerns and trust have a direct impact on attitudes towards the implementation of Identity Cards in the UK, there is also an interaction between privacy and trust  To examine the nature of this interaction in more detail, the privacy and trust variables were median split into high and low trust and privacy concern, and a twoway, between-subjects ANOVA conducted. The interaction between privacy and trust was significant  F 1, 386\6.60 p 0.00\. The pattern of this interaction is illustrated in Figure 5  The interaction suggests that for those who considered Identity Cards to be a threat to their privacy, level of trust in the Government had little impact on their attitudes. However, for those who were more ambivalent about the privacy threat of ID Cards  Perceived privacy threat Distrust in Government R 2 51 Post-scenario ID Card attitudes R 2 64 61 24 71 Perceived privacy threat Distrust in Government Post-scenario Identity Card attitudes 59 53 65 Privacy X Distrust composite 96 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


the level of trust was critical in determining their attitudes. Specifically, in this group low levels of trust led to negative attitudes towards ID Cards, and high levels of trust led to more benign, positive attitudes   0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 High trust Low trust Level of trust in Government ID Card attitudes High Privacy threat Low Privacy threat  Figure 5: Privacy X Trust Interaction  5. General Discussion   According to the UK Information Commissioner the United Kingdom faces the prospect of sleepwalking into a surveillance society  ter m s  of e-government, citizen privacy concerns pose a substantial obstacle towards the implementation of data sharing, identity management schemes and verifiable authentication [7, 15, 38, 39  T h e resu lts of the  present study provide a number of important and novel insights into people s privacy concerns and their attitudes towards the implementation of Identity Cards in the UK. First, although the different methods of implementation did not differ significantly in terms of attitude change, they did have an impact on citizens  perceived compulsion. This suggests that issues of control and compulsion have an affective component as well as one as outlined in systems design. This is important since the affective component is likely to be influenced by people s sense of control and compulsion, rather than their actual level of control Successful e-government initiatives should seek to not only provide control to citizens, but should also make them feel in control  The relationship between the perceived privacy threat of ID cards and opposition to them was strong suggesting that e-government initiatives that collect data on citizens may encounter considerable opposition if the data collection is perceived as impinging on personal privacy. This was supported by both the regression analyses and the ANOVA. When there was a high perceived privacy threat, levels of trust did not moderate attitudes towards ID Cards. Only when the perceived privacy threat was felt less keenly by participants did trust impact on their attitudes towards ID Cards  This finding is important since we usually assume that privacy fundamentalists will generally oppose any e-government system that poses a privacy threat and the privacy unconcerned perhaps won t worry regardless e v e r privacy pragmatists are likely to judge a particular system in light of not only its costs and benefits, but also in relation to the potential data collector. The evidence in favour of moderation suggests that combining privacy threat with low levels of trust creates a particular impetus towards opposition something that may swing pragmatists towards opposition   5.1 Implications for e-government   As noted, once e-government systems are developed beyond information portals, there is an increased need for the collection of personal information, data sharing between departments and databases, and authentication of individuals and their entitlements. There are a number of methods available to develop e-government in a privacy friendly way e.g. through trusted third parties or identity management systems\. The results of the present research strongly suggest that the developers of egovernment ignore issues of privacy at their peril. In particular, trust would seem to be the keystone in terms of building e-government systems that request or reuse personal information. This trust can take the form of competence \(e.g. in the development of systems or the protection of personal information\, or in the integrity of the Government itself. However, the absence of trust is likely to render even privacyfriendly e-government initiatives unsuccessful  5.2 Implications for privacy and trust research   Privacy has been described as a concept in disarray  40 In part this is due to one of the strengths of the research area its multi-disciplinary nature but also because privacy can refer to so many different contexts and meanings 28 The research presented here strongly suggests that the interaction between privacy concern and trust is critical to understanding people s responses to a potential privacy threat Specifically, the creation and testing of the multiplicative composite provided strong evidence that the combination of low trust with privacy threat leads to a stronger reaction than would be expected by examining just privacy and trust independently  Theoretically, there are good reasons to assume that the combination of low trust with privacy threat poses a unique threat to peopleês acceptance of a Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


technology. For inst des cribes a self boundary the boundary  around the person modified by the disclosure of personal information and a dyadic boundary that ensures the discloserês safety from leakage of information to uninvited third parties. The self boundary may be open or closed depending on such interpersonal factors as the level of trust in a disclosure target  In the present research, the combination of privacy concerns and low trust may have replicated a situation in which the self boundary is open \(i.e. information is recognized as at risk\he impermeability of the dyadic boundary is open to question \(i.e. information may be leaked to a third party or misused analysis suggests the possible benefits of applying insights from interpersonal interaction to the interactions between citizens and governments Ö if, as suggested by some, we are moving towards an era of personalized e-government then t h ere a r e clear  privacy implications [14, 45 ide t h e need to  consider issues of trust in terms of citizen-state interactions [11    5.3 Limitations and future research   In the present research, a single aspect  identification and authentication - of citizens relations with the state were studied. The case of ID Cards poses a number of issues in terms of generalizability that will need to be tested. First, the potential costs and benefits of ID cards in the UK are hotly contested, suggesting that not all respondents conceptions of the scenarios were similar. The importance of each individual s own interpretation was seen in the non-significance of the compulsion scenarios, and the importance of perceived compulsion, on attitudes towards ID Cards. Given that at the time of the research the legislation was being discussed in depth in the UK media, perhaps it is not surprising that people came to the study with preexisting attitudes that were stronger than the manipulated scenarios  6. References  1  A. Acquisti and J. Grossklags Losses, Gains, and Hyperbolic Discounting: An Experimental Approach to Information Security Attitudes and Behavior 2nd Annual Workshop on Economics and Information Security 2003 2  Altman, I, The environment and social behavior, 1975 Monterey, CA: Brooks/Cole 3  R. Anderson The DeCODE proposal for an Icelandic health database  http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rja14/iceland/iceland.html, 1998 4  S.G.M. Bailey and N. Caidi How much is too little Privacy and smart cards in Hong Kong and Ontario Journal of Information Science, 31, 2005, pp. 354 64 5  BBC News. Watchdog's Big Brother UK warning \(16 August 2004\vailable from http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/3568468.stm 6  R. M. Baron and D.A. Kenny The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 51, 1986, pp. 11731182 7  C. Bellamy, P. 6 and C. Raab Joined-up government and privacy in the United Kingdom: managing tensions between data protection and social policy  Public  Administration 83, 2005, pp. 393Ö415  8  A. Bhattacherjee Individual trust in online firms: Scale development and initial test Journal of Management Information Systems, 19, \(2002\p.211-241 9  B. Berendt, O. Gunther & S. Spiekermann Privacy in ecommerce: Stated preferences vs. actual behavior  Communications of the ACM, 48, 2005, pp. 101-106   N. Bos, J.S. Olson, D. Gergle, G.M. Olson and Z Wright Rich Media Helps Trust Development In Proceedings of CHI 2002, 2002, pp. 135-140. New York ACM Press   P. Briggs, B. Simpson, and A. De Angeli Personalisation and trust: a reciprocal relationship In Designing Personalized User Experiences in Ecommerce, J Karat, J. Vanderdonekt, C. Karat, and J. O. Blom, Eds Human-Computer Interaction Series, vol. 5. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA, 2004, pp.39-55   L. Carter, and F. BÈlanger Citizen adoption of electronic government initiatives Proceedings of the 37th Hawaii International Conference on Systems Sciences Honolulu, HI, 2004, pp. 1-10   L. Carter, and F. BÈlanger The utilization of egovernment services: citizen trust, innovation and acceptance factors Information Systems Journal 15, 2005, pp. 5 25   R.K. Chellappa and R.G. Sin Personalization versus privacy: An empirical examination of the online consumer s dilemma Information Technology and Management, 6 2005, p.181-202   R. Cullen, "Citizens Concerns about the Privacy of Personal Information Held by Government: A Comparative Study, Japan and New Zealand," hicss , \(2008\p. 224, 2008   M.J. Culnan and P.K. Armstrong Information privacy concerns, procedural fairness, and impersonal trust: an empirical investigation Organization Science 10, 1999, pp 104 15   M.J. Culnan Georgetown Internet Privacy Policy Study: Privacy Online in 1999: A report to the Federal Trade Commission 1999, Washington DC: Georgetown   C. A. Edwardes, I. R. Hosein and E. A .Whitley Balance, scrutiny and identity cards in the UK Criminal Justice Matters 68, 2007,  pp. 29-30   J. Fishenden, ID Cards Will Lead to Massive Fraud  2005\ Available at http://news.scotsman.com/index  cfm?id=21039820 05 \(accesse d 18 October 2005   GAO  http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d021083t.pdf   J. Gideon, L. Cranor, S. Egelman & A. Acquisti Power strips, prophylactics, and privacy, oh my Proceedings of the second symposium on Usable privacy and security, 2006 pp. 133-144 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  E. Guizzo Loser: Britain s identity crisis IEEE Spectrum, 2006, n.p   R. Halstead-Nussloch Self-service, personalization and electronic government: a little history, a few issues, and a small number of solutions In Designing Personalized User Experiences in Ecommerce, J. Karat, J. Vanderdonekt, C Karat, and J. O. Blom, Eds. Human-Computer Interaction Series, vol. 5. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA 2004, pp. 161-183   J.S. Hillier & F. BÈlanger Privacy Strategies for Electronic Government In M.A.Abramson and .Emeans, EGovernment 2001. Oxford: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers Inc, 2001   The Office of the Information Commissioner The Identity Cards Bill: the Information Commissioner s Concerns 2005\vailable at www.ico.gov.uk/cms  DocumentUploads/the_identity_cards_bill_ico_concerns_oct ober_2005.pdf \(accesse d 2 Novemb er 2005   S.L. Jarvenpaa, K. Knoll, and D.E. Leidner Is anybody out there? Antecedents of trust in global virtual teams  Journal of Management Information Systems, 14, \(1998 p.29-64   A.N. Joinson, C.B. Paine, T. Buchanan and U-D Reips Watching me, watching you Privacy attitudes and reactions to Identity Card implementation scenarios in the United Kingdom Journal of Information Science, 32, \(2006\34343   A.N. Joinson and C.B. Paine Self-disclosure, privacy and the Internet In Joinson, A.N., McKenna, K., Postmes T. and Reips, U.-D. \(Eds.\. Oxford Handbook of Internet Psychology \(pp. 237-252\xford University Press, 2007   K. Layne and J. Lee Developing fully function egovernment: A four stage model Government Information Quarterly, 18, 2001, pp. 122-137   R. LaRose, N. J. Rifon, and A. Lee Promoting ISafety: Effects of Privacy Warning Boxes and Privacy Seals on Risk Assessment and Online Privacy Behaviors Paper presented at AMA, Marketing and Public Policy conference Salt Lake City, 2004   LSE, Alternative Blueprint for a National Identification System \(2005\. Available at www.lse.ac.uk/collections/pressAndInformationOffice/PDF LSE_ID_blueprint.pdf accessed 5 July 2005   N. K. Malhotra, S. S. Kim and J. Agarwal Internet users' Information privacy concerns \(IUIPC\he construct the scale and a causal model Information Systems Research, 15, 2004, pp. 336-355   R.C. Mayer, J.H. Davis, F.D. Schoorman An integrative model of organizational trust Academy of Management Review 20, 1995, pp. 709 734   M.J. Metzger Privacy, trust and disclosure: Exploring barriers to electronic commerce Journal of ComputerMediated Communication, 2004. Available online at http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol9/issue4/metzger.html    M.J. Metzger Effects of Site, Vendor, and Consumer Characteristics on Web Site Trust and Disclosure  Communication Research, 33, 2006, pp. 155-179   National Audit Office Electronic service delivery in the driver, vehicle and operator agencies in Great Britain  2008. Available from http://www.nao.org.uk/publications/nao_reports/0708/0708204.pdf   J. Nickel and H. Schaumburg Electronic privacy, trust and self-disclosure in e-recruitment Late breaking results paper presented at CHI 2004, 24-29 April, Vienna, Austria   R. Park, "Measuring Factors that Influence the Success of E-Government Initiatives," hicss, pp. 218, 2008   M. Rotenberg Communications privacy: implications for network design Commun. ACM 36, 8, 1993, pp. 61-68   D. J. Solove, "A Taxonomy of Privacy", University of Pennsylvania Law Review, 154, 2006, p. 477   S.  Spiekermann, J. Grossklags, and B. Berendt, Eprivacy in 2nd generation E-Commerce: privacy preferences versus actual behavior, in: Proceedings of the Third ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce, Association for Computing Machinery \(ACM EC'01\, Tampa, Florida, US 2001, pp. 38-47   P. 6, Should we be compelled to have identity cards Justifications for the legal enforcement of obligations Political Studies 53 \(2005\243 61   L.S. Strickland and L.E. Hunt Technology, security and individual privacy: new tools, new threats, and new public perceptions Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 56, 2004, pp. 221 34   C.W. Tan, I. Benbasat, R.T. Cenfetelli, "Building Citizen Trust towards E-Government Services: Do High Quality Websites Matter?" hicss, 2008, p. 217, 2008   M. Teltzrow, and A.Kobsa Impacts of user privacy preferences on personalized systems: a comparative study  In Designing Personalized User Experiences in Ecommerce J. Karat, J. Vanderdonekt, C. Karat, and J. O. Blom, Eds Human-Computer Interaction Series, vol. 5. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA, 2004, pp. 315-332   UK Information Commissioner, Report on the Surveillance Society \(2006\trieved 27 November 2006 http://tinyurl.com/ya76db    M. Warkentin, D. Gefen, P.A. Pavlou, and M. Rose Encouraging Citizen Adoption of e-Government by Building Trust Electronic Markets, 12, 2002, pp. 157-162   E. A. Whitley, I.R. Hosein, I.O. Angell and S. Davies Reflections on the academic policy analysis process and the UK Identity Cards Scheme The Information Society, 23 2007, pp. 51-58   E. A. Whitley and I.R. Hosein Departmental influences on policy design: How the UK is confusing identity fraud with other policy agendas Communications of the ACM 51, 2008, pp. 98-10  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


in the area of advanced illumination modeling color and range image processing applied to robotics and medical imaging and received the award for Outstanding Dissertation from the University of South Florida At JPL his area offocus is science data visualization and science planning for telerobotics He supported the 2004 Mars Exploration Rover MER mission operations as a Science Downlink Coordinator facilitating the timely downlink and analysis of science data from the rovers He received the NASA Software of the Year Award for his work on the Science Activity Planner science visualization and activity planning software used for MER operations He also received the Imager of the Year award from Advanced Imaging Magazine for his work on Maestro the publicly available version of the Science Activity Planner for MER Mark has been programming in Java and loving every minute of it since it was first used in web browsers in 1995 He his wife Nina and daughters Gwendolyn and Jacquelyn live in Tujunga CA Thomas Crockett started working at JPL in 2005 after completing his Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science at the University of Arizona where he discovered an interest in graphics He joined the Maestro team in 2006 and began developing advanced image browsing capabilities that would be used by the MER Phoenix and MSL missions to view and smoothly navigate around very large images Recently he has been extending this work to tackle the problem of mapping and spatial browsing of the science data collected by a mission Jason Fox received his Masters of Science degree in Computer Science from Purdue University in the spring of 2003 At that time he began working for the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena California in the Planning Software Systems group Jason first worked on the Mars Exploration Rover MER mission performing verification and validation of the Activity Planning and Sequencing Subsystem's modeling infrastructure After the rovers  successful landing his role shifted to that of Tactical Activity Planner on the Integrated Sequencing Team and was responsible for the daily construction of the integrated rover activity plan After leaving MER Jason joined the Maestro team and began development on the science operations tool Maestro the successor to the Science Activity Planner co-winner of the NASA Software of the Year in 2004 In addition to Maestro he is also the JPL leadfor the Phoenix Science Interface tool that will support scientific operations of the Phoenix lander 2007 At JPL his areas of focus include collaborative distributed operations for Mars rovers and landers and science planning for telerobotics In his spare time Jason is in training for the Coeur d'Alene Ironman competition to be held in June 2008 Joseph Joswig received his Masters of Science degree in Computer Science from the University t o California Los Angeles in the Spring of 2005 He is a Software Engineer in the Planning Software Systems various~Gou flth NAssiAn Jeta ER heix n S and tchnolgy prjec Propul s inc Laboratiory in or wa ouedo eeorked fo mutherpast twoun softwaresysteyears asL aTLT moembe NS-ofnthe Cener K10 ove lso h Ma estrog thea Masupproting wrhafoue ondeveloping o a multi-robot gomnadcn roundste to support White Sands Missile Range Jeffporruisy isath Exportin ovrsorwhc supy ervisorwne of the 2004NASASofwareof te Plannn Awr.H softwarenl leadng te deelopentf operatlions system s for ah20 Mar SieneabratryRoerndaMars et Sofut r Cassni Satunian Orbter Mar Reco naisanc Orbter and.the.pirit an pportunityM....M ars Explratin.Roers-.fo.whih.thy.wre.c-winer.o.th 2004 NASA Software of the...Year...Award.....He..is..currently leading the develoment.of.the.uplinksystem.for.the.200 MarScencLaoraoryRovroandalvaiety Laofrlunry and Martian operations technology projects Jeff is a strong 11 


advocate for the application of agile development to Cora and has a lovely daughter Sara In his spare time methodologies and open source software in mission critical he likes to run marathons and continually bugs his friends applications He received Bachelor's and Masters degrees to join him in Computer Science from MIT and lives with his wife and two children near Pasadena CA Khawaja Shams joined the Planning Software Systems group at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2005 and he has since been focused on development of OSGI-based web services to enable Maestro's rich client applications His prior work experience includes employment at Malin Space Science Systems and the Internet Protocol Team at Nokia Mobile Phones Khawaja earned a Master's degree in Computer Sciencetfom Cornell University and a Bachelors degree in Computer Science from University of California San Diego Khawajaes current research interests include browser-based telemetry monitoring systems for robotics peer-to-peer systems and PESTful web based services memobern of Tathe a Uplaning edrsosbefrpann Sotwae systems itgropatigwtthsceetam an theadn Jth Pnieropliongemtruhtedyt a Laboratiory.o HER recer ived rton uis,h oe fomt bigaprofthe Ca Monaetoeabinthlasnfr woredME ponetiherueo the Sciencelanin sQfta sotae develsopingeoe frte asScec Lactivit PMLane and Seqene InHLTEgRatono Engineer constructing validating..and.veri.ying..and.bundling sequences used to command the MER rovers....He.moved onto being a Tactical Uplink Lead responsible for planning the sequences integratingwith the science team an softare.o Hey iorsalso a developer fortheMar.Scenc Lander MSL and the ATHLETE Robot project    investigating robots to be sent to the Moon Jay is married 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


