The State of the Art and Tendency of Privacy Preserving Data Mining   Bo Wang College of Computer Science and Technology Harbin Engineering University Harbin, China wangbob09@hrbeu.edu.cn Jing Yang College of Computer Science and Technology Harbin Engineering University Harbin, China yangjing@hrbeu.edu.cn   Abstract As a new branch of data mining, privacy preserving data mining has become more and more important in the information security field  This paper first presents an insight into the principles of privacy preserving data mining, and then marks out the difference with normal data mining through three 
stages, including single data record methods, centralized dataset mining technology and secure multiparty computation problem By studying and analyzing privacy preserving data mining methods, the present problems and directions for future research are discussed Keywords-privacy preserving; data mining; single data record centralized dataset mining; secure multiparty computation I   I NTRODUCTION H EADING 1  While brings the enormous benefit to us, data mining \(DM technology also produces the inevitable question of the privacy revelation, which aroused more and more attentions by  the 
field of information security and social aspects. It has been the significant research subject that how to extract accurate and valuable knowledge in database under the private or sensitive information protection's condition in data mining process Motivated by the multiple requirements of data sharing privacy preserving and knowledge discovery, privacy preserving data mining \(PPDM\ comes into being and has rapid development in the technology research in recent years The goal of privacy preserving data mining is to build mining model and extract valuable knowledge in raw data involving privacy or sensitive information while not being leaking. Its starting point can be described for unearthing 
precise patterns and rules in the non-precise primary data which also indicated that privacy preserving data mining hopes to find some kind of balance between the inaccurate primary data and the accurate mining knowledge. However, this kind of balance is just the goal that privacy preserving data mining expected Two mainly problems are considered in Privacy preserving data mining. The first one is the protection of sensitive raw data, such as name, id number, address income level and other micro-data. The other is the protection of sensitive knowledge showed by data mining, which is also called knowledge hiding database \(KHD\. Sensitive knowledge is defined as sensitive 
rules that obtained from data set through data mining. No matter the first problem or the second, the final purpose of privacy preserving data mining is to ensure personal privacy and get useful knowledge in data mining II  THE DIFFERENCE FROM DATA  MINING As a new technology of data mining, privacy preserving data mining and traditional data mining are differences in data processing, data concerning, technology application and so on especially in the basic flow and data processing. The detail differences of privacy preserving data mining from data mining lie in: First, in the data collection stage, privacy preserving data 
mining removes the private information involved in the primary data, or adds interference to the primary data, which called single data record of privacy preserving. Secondly, in the pre-processing stage, privacy preserving data mining processes the data once more to obtain the mining-related information such as reconstruction of the distribution of raw data or statistical characteristics and so on. Thirdly, in the mining stage, it is necessary to improve the traditional mining algorithms. For example, when processing multiple distributed data mining under the premise of mutual non-disclosure of information, the mining algorithm needs to improve itself in 
order to complete the mining of distributed data privacy. In the next three phases, we will describe the privacy preserving technology separately according to the above three aspects of difference III  S INGLE DATA RECORD OF  PRIVACY PRESERVING TECHNOLOGY  Such technology is mainly used for privacy preserving data mining in the pre-processing stage, including randomized response, data blocking, single data exchange and data perturbation, etc., whose main characteristic is to achieve a single data privacy protection by processed the data separately and then causes the miners not to know the accurate 
information in the single data record A  Randomized response Randomized response technique is developed in the statistics community for the purpose of protecting respondent’s privacy, the basic idea of which is that the data owner distributes the original perturbed data to prevent the attacker Supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 61073043 and No. 61073041 978-1-4244-8694-6/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE 


obtaining the original data whether to include some real or false information Du and Zha o s e d  t o use t h e r a n d o m i z e d re s p o n s e  techniques to conduct the data mining computation, and presented a method to build decision tree classifiers from the disguised data. The method that presented in that paper protected respondent’s privacy by using the randomicity of questions. In the meanwhile, the process can obtain the accurate distributed probability while counts the distributed probability of some characteristic. Luo etc. [2 in t r o d u c e d a  data disguised method for privacy preserving association rule mining based on the randomized response techniques, and presented the mining algorithm on the disguised item set Zhang etc [3 opo sed a new  d a t a p r ep ro ce ssi ng  app r o a c h  Randomized Response with Partial Hiding \(RRPH\, and presented a privacy preserving association rule mining algorithm based on RRPH While randomized response techniques used to provide information with response model, so they are usually used for processing categorical data  B  Data blocking In the process of privacy preserving association rule mining, it is improper to replace the real data with false data in some applications. The data blocking techniques can solve the problem by using an uncertain symbol to replace the certain value of data table. Y. Saygin etc. [2 des c ri be d th e a p pli cati on  of data blocking in the association rule mining, and presented an algorithm for hiding sensitive rules by data blocking techniques. The usual method of data blocking is that replace some values with the uncertain symbol “?”, then the count of some item sets turns into {0, 1, ?}. Another technique is to modify the support \(sup\and confidence \(conf\ of item sets instead of support district [min sup, max sup a n d co nfi de n c e district [min conf, max co   C  Data perturbation Data perturbation techniques are to make real sensitive data unknown by transformation data, and then to process data analysis. Since the method does not reconstruct the original data values but only the data distributions, new algorithms need to be proposed that use these new distributions to execute mining process of the potential knowledge. Stanley R. M Oliveira e s e n t e d pr i v acy p r e s e r vi ng c l ust e r i ng m i ni ng algorithm with data centralized distribution, and proposed rotational based transformation method to hiding the original data, which could get accurate clustering results by the safeguard of the global distances between data points However, the data perturbation technique applies in the event that the data server is not allowed to learn or recover precise records, which naturally leads to some restrictions. For example, some data mining algorithms such as multivariate decision tree technique cannot be modified to work with the perturbation approach IV  C ENTRALIZED DATASET MINING OF PRIVACY PRESERVING TECHNOLOGY  Such technology is suitable for the condition that the miner interested or the knowledge mined is the data sets characteristic, rather than individual data information. The specific method is to add random variables to a single record in order to disturb the original data while collecting data, and then use reconstruction algorithm to construct the distribution of original data to perform data mining and analysis  A  Reconstruction technique based on association rule mining Agrawal [6 p r es en te d a p r iv acy pr es e r v i n g ID 3 de cis i on  tree classification algorithm from training data in which the values of individual records have been perturbed. By using the reconstructed distributions, they built classifiers whose accuracy is comparable to the accuracy of classifiers built with the original data  For reconstructing the original distribution they have considered a Bayesian approach and they proposed three algorithms for building accurate ID3 decision trees that rely on reconstructed distributions. The work presented in [7 proposed an improved method based on Bayesian reconstruction with Expectation Maximization \(EM\ algorithm for distribution reconstruction. In the case of a large amount of data set, it is proved that the EM algorithm converges to the maximum likelihood estimate of the original data distribution based on the perturbed data. However, numerical data reconstruction can achieve the original data protection, but sensitive knowledge is not protected  B  Reconstruction technique based on classification mining The work presented in [8 r o p o s e d an  as s o ciat ion  ru l e  mining algorithm from transactions consisting of categorical items where the data has been randomized to preserve privacy of individual transactions. By using a class of randomization operator called “select-a-size”, every record is randomly transformed separately, and then derives formulae for an unbiased support estimator and its variance, which recover itemset supports from randomized datasets. In the literature [9 authors used a randomization technology to modify the binary data and classification data of the association rules as dimensions, which investigated the problem of supporting the conflicting goals of privacy and accuracy while mining association rules on large databases V  D ISTRIBUTED DATA MINING OF PRIVACY PRESERVING TECHNOLOGY  When performing the data mining with two or more parties together, neither party is willing to disclose its own private data information, but to achieve the data mining process to obtain useful knowledge. This problem is referred to as the Secure Multiparty Computation \(SMC\ problem, whose concept was introduced in [1   T h e  te ch n i qu e  of s e cu re m u ltipa r ty  computation is widely applied in distributed privacy preserving data mining and also often used in combining mining among many dependent databases to protect their own data from getting by other parties 


The basic idea of Security Multiparty Computation is that no party knows anything except its own input and the results while the computation is completed. Lindell et al [11 f i rst  proposed the use of data encryption methods to establish decision trees for Horizontal distribution data, which translated the process of finding the best classification property into a secure multiparty computation problem. It is proved that their protocol is considerably more efficient than generic solutions and demands both very few rounds of communication and reasonable bandwidth. The work presented in  a ddr e s s e d secure mining of association rules over horizontally partitioned data, and the methods proposed in the paper incorporated cryptographic techniques to minimize the information shared while adding little overhead to the mining task. In the field of multiparty classification mining, Du et al [13  p r esen t e d a  method of how to build a decision tree classifier under the scenario that a database is vertically partitioned into two pieces, with one piece owned by A and the other piece owned by B. The protocol they proposed allowed A and B to conduct such a classifier building without having to compromise their privacy by using an untrusted third-party server and building a useful building block. The work presented in [14 opo s e d four efficient Security Multiparty Computation techniques for privacy preserving computations, including secure sum, secure set union, secure size of set intersection and scalar product which can be used to support data mining  VI  CONLUSION Privacy preserving data mining have a rapid development in a short year. But it still faces many challenges in the future Firstly, the level of privacy has different definitions in different filed. Therefore, the measure of privacy preserving data mining technology protecting private information is not the same. So it's an urgent issue to present a unified privacy definition and measure. Secondly, the most of research in privacy preserving data mining is presently confined to the theory study. It is necessary to pay enough attention to how to apply these techniques to actual application. Finally, the standardization of privacy preserving technology is the most important issue for the future development of privacy preserving data mining. At present, some foreign experts have concerned the issue, and also made some relevant preparation work for the issue concept  A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work is supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 61073043 and No 61073041. Furthermore, we are grateful for the Database and Knowledge Research Laboratory of Harbin Engineering University   R EFERENCES  1  Wenliang Du, Zhijun Zhan. Using randomized response techniques for privacy-preserving data mining[C he 9 t h A C M S I G K DD  I n t l Co nf   Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, Washington, D.C 2003 2  LUO Yong-long, HUANG Liu-sheng, JING Wei-wei, YAOYi-fei CHEN Guo-liang. An algorithm for privacy-preserving boolean association rule mining. Chinese Journal of Electronics, 2005 33\(5\:900-903  3  Zhang P, Tong YH, Tang SW, Yang DQ, Ma XL. An effective method for privacy preserving association rule mining. Journal of Software 2006, 17\(8\64-1774  4  Saygin Y Verykios S V Elmagarmid K A. Privacy preserving association rule mining[C n P r o c ee ding s o f t h e 1 2 t h I n te r n at io nal  Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering \(2002\: pp.151-158 5  Stanley R. M. Oliveira and Osmar R. Zaiane. Achieving Privacy Preservation When Sharing Data For Clustering[C  I n Proc  of th e International Workshop on Secure Data Management in a Connected World \(SDM’04\ in conjunction with VLDB, Canada, 2004:67-82 6  Agrawal R, Srikant R. Privacy-Preserving data mining[C I n  Proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data. Dallas: ACM Press, 2000:439-450 7  Agrawal D, Agrawal C C. On the design and quantification of privacy preserving data mining algorithms[A  I n Proc eed i n gs of th e 20 th A C M SIGMID-SIGACT-SIGART symposium on Principles of database systems[C Sa n t a B a rb ara C a l i fo rn i a Un i t e d St at e s  A C M Pre s s 2001:247-255 8  Mievski E A, Srikant R, Agrawal R. Privacy preserving mining of association rules  I n Proc eed i ngs of t h e 8 t h A C M SI GKDDD  International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 2002 9  Rizvi S J, Haritsa J R. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining [A n  P r o c ee ding s o f t h e  28 th I n te r n atio nal  Co nf e r e n ce o n  Very Large Database \(VLD o ng K o ng Chi na s  n  2 0 0 2  6 82693   Yao A C. How to generate and exchange secrets. In: Proceedings of the 27th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, pages:162167, IEEE, 1986   Lindell Y, Pinkas B. Privacy preserving data mining [C  I n A d v a nce s  in  Cryptology, CRYPTO 2000, 2000:36-54   Kantarcioglu M, Clifton C. Privacy-Preserving Distributed Mining of Association Rules on Horizontally Partitioned Data. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2004, 16\(9\26-1037   Wenliang Du, Zhijun Zhan. Building decision tree classifier on private data. In: Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Data Mining Workshop on Privacy, Security and Data Mining. Maebashi City, Japan 2002:1-8   Clifton C, Kantarcioglou M, Vaidya J, Xiaodong Lin, Zhu M Y. Tools for privacy preserving distributed data mining[J I G K D D E x pl o r atio ns   2002, 4 \(2\:28-34  


proposed based on the speech-act theory w from the linguistic analysis of human comm this theory, "performative" means pur performed during conversations between th communication. Sending a performative in partner results is an intention of an action request" performative means that the sen receiver to execute some actions. Two declarative agent languages are KQML \(K and Manipulation Language conceived both as a message format and a m protocol to support run-time knowledge agents but the support for KQML has been favor of FIPA ACL [13 B. Collaborative Multi-agent based system In our previous work we have develope multi-agent based system for mining assoc distributed databases. The previously prop based on cooperative agents and was c Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents The model combined different type of tech the association rules as a data mining te multi-agent systems to build a model that distributed databases rather than working database only. The autonomous and the soci model agents provided the ability to opera with each other and with other different exte offering a generic platform and a basic infra deal with other data mining techniques algorithm is described as follows 1. The Interface Agent accepts the requir the user and sends it to the Main Age FIPA message with a "Propose perf Local Agents in all hospitals to start m 2. Local Agents reply with an "Agree the Main Agent and counts the local su ation of urinary al pelvis origin experiment are bes the medical e significance of model from the 


YSTEM MODEL del ciety standards hnology and the er technologies the IEEE as its 5 [11 model is the nd operate. The Agent Platform ent Management ervice \(MTS CL hich is derived unication[12]. In poseful actions e participants of a message to the For example, the der requests the most popular nowledge Query L.  KQML was essage handling sharing among discontinued in d a collaborative iation rules from osed model was ompliant to the standard \(FIPA nologies, namely chnique and the can operate on on a centralized al abilities of the te cooperatively rnal agents, thus structure that can The proposed ed support from nt which sends a 


ormative" to all ining performative" to pports for all 1 candidate itemsets in their loca 3. When Local Agents finish co Inform performative" to the all counts received and compa 4. The Main Agent finds the 1them in the database in the l then sends a FIPA mess performative" to each of the Lo 5. The Main Agent generates the sends them to all Local Agent performative" FIPA message count the support of the candid 6. Local Agents calculate the su itemsets in their local databas Inform performative" messag 7. The Main Agent considers a frequent if the summation of a all Local Agents is greater than these itemsets are saved in th small itemsets are not consider 8. Steps \(10 15 are no more k+1 candidate item 9. The Main Agent sends an message to all Local Agents generation process is finish frequent itemsets to the Interfa The platform has been compa association rules algorithms withou proved to be more efficient and m shows how the proposed mul outperformed the traditional associa Figure 1. Time comparison between From the above Figure we ca needed for mining frequent items multi-agent based algorithm is less traditional association rules algorith difference between the two implem the number of database records incre 


Our goal at that time was to ad to extract interesting rules from rea medical domain in order to dem capabilities of the proposed mode been proposed in this paper l database unting, they reply with Main Agent which sum res it with min support large itemsets and save ist of frequent itemsets age with an "Inform cal Agents k-candidate itemsets and s, then sends a "Request to each Local Agent to ate k-itemsets pport of the k-candidate es then send them in an e to the Main Agent k-candidate itemset as ll its local supports from the min global support e central database while ed in the next iteration e and finish when there sets Inform performative informing them that the ed, and sends all the ce Agent red with the traditional t multi-agents and was ore scalable.  Figure 1 ti-agent based system tion rules algorithms the two implementations n deduce that the time ets using the proposed than that needed using ms. Moreover, the time entations increases when 


ases d a rule generation agent l data specifically in the onstrate the merits and l further. This goal has 540 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications C. Rule agent The proposed model is based on a cooperative multiagent based association rules algorithm which is used to discover frequent itemsets from distributed databases and a rule agent. All agents \(main agent, local agents and the rule agent  rule agent is  basically based on Apriori Algorithm for discovering association rules from large databases [15 although we had to modify some parts of this algorithm to be able to work in a distributed and multi-agent environment Moreover, the rule agent algorithm is modified also to deal with the itemsets discovered by the main agent. A detailed description for the rule agent algorithm and the message negotiations between the main and the rule agents will be described in this section. Figure 2 illustrates the solution architecture of the proposed multi-agent based model Procedure RuleAgent This is the main algorithm for the Rule Agent 1 lk and the local agents, where k>= 2 do begin 2 lk, lk Procedure GenRules \(lk: large k-itemset , am: large mitemset form:  a => \(lk  - a 1 A am -1 subsets of the itemset \(lk 2 am -1 3 to calculate the support of \(lk 4 to calculate the support of \(\(am -1 5 it calculates the rule confidence as follows Itemset_conf = support\(lk am -1 6 Itemset_conf 7 am -1 lk  - am -1 


With confidence = Itemset_conf And support = support\(lk 8 m - 1 > 1 lk  , am -1 9 End GenRule Figure 2. Solution architecture for the proposed model The proposed sequence of the data mining process for the distributed medical data base is described as follows 1. The Interface Agent accepts the required support and the confidence from the user and sends them to the main agent which in turn sends them to the local agent in each of the local hospitals 2. The local Agent together with the Main Agent start the distributed mining process through some negotiation FIPA messages, and finally generates the global large frequent itemsets 3. When the global large itemsets are generated, the Main Agent sends a "propose performative" FIPA message to the newly implemented Rule Agent as follows Propose sender \(agent-identifier :name main_agent receiver \(set \(agent-identifier :name rule_agent content "Start mining with confidence = 80 reply-with rule_generation_proposal 4. The Rule Agent replies with an "agree performative" to the Main Agent as follows Agree sender \(agent-identifier :name rule_agent receiver \(set \(agent-identifier :name main_agent content "proposal approved for rule generation in-reply-to rule_generation_proposal 5. The Rule Agent starts generation of the rules according to the required support and confidence 6. Rule Agent loops on the list of frequent itemsets generated by the Main and the Local Agents 7. For each frequent itemset, the Rule Agent starts finding all non-empty subsets of this frequent itemset \(we need to consider all subsets of the itemset since the Rule Agent generates all rules with multiple consequents 8. Loop for every subset \(a L 9. The Rule Agent sends a "Request performative" FIPA message to the Main Agent to get the support of the 


itemset \(a Request sender \(agent-identifier :name rule_agent receiver \(set \(agent-identifier :name main_agent content "get itemset support for itemset \(a reply-with itemset_a 10. The  Main Agent sends the support value for the itemset \(a with an "Inform performative" as follows Inform sender \(agent-identifier :name main_agent receiver \(set \(agent-identifier :name rule_agent content "The support value for itemset \(a in-reply-to itemset_a 11. The Rule Agent sends a "Request performative" FIPA message to the Main Agent to get the support of the itemset \(L 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 541 Request sender \(agent-identifier :name rule_agent receiver \(set \(agent-identifier :name main_agent content "get itemset support for itemset \(L reply-with itemset_L 12. The  Main Agent sends the support value for the itemset \(L with an "Inform performative" as follows Inform sender \(agent-identifier :name main_agent receiver \(set \(agent-identifier :name rule_agent content "The support value for itemset \(L in-reply-to itemset_L 13. The Rule Agent calculates the ratio of the support \(L to the support \(a to the minimum confidence supplied by the Interface Agent, the Rule Agent generates a rule in the form of a L  a 14. If there are more non-empty subsets of the itemset \(L then go to step 8 15. If there are more frequent itemsets, then go to step 7 16. After the medical rules are generated, the Rule Agent sends a FIPA message with an "Inform performative to the Main Agent  and the Interface Agent as follows 


Inform sender \(agent-identifier :name rule_agent receiver \(set \(agent-identifier :name main_agent content "rules are successfully generated in-reply-to rule_generation_proposal D. Agent cooperation and message negotiation Table 1 describes the interaction and the messages sequence between the proposed multi-agent based agents TABLE I. AGENTS INTERACTION AND NEGOTIATION Main Agent Rule Agent Sends a proposal for the rule agent with the required confidence Sends an Agree FIPA message accepting the proposal The Rule Agent loops on the list of frequent itemsets, and for every non-empty subset \(a the frequent itemset \(L 1. Sends a Request message asking for the support of the itemset \(a 2. Sends an Inform message containing the support of the itemset \(a 3. Sends a Request message asking for the support of the itemset \(L 4. Sends an Inform FIPA message containing the support value of itemset \(L 5. The Rule Agent calculates the ratio of the support \(L support \(a 6. If this value is greater 


than or equal to the minimum confidence a rule in the form of a? \(L  a is generated The previous steps are iterative until there are no more frequent itemsets When rules are generated an inform FIPA message is sent III. APPLYING THE PROPOSED MODEL ON MEDICAL DATABASE Inflammatory lesions of urinary bladder and kidneys exist in 3 - 5% of the population. Women suffer more often due to anatomic peculiarities of their urogenital system There are conditions to transfer adjacently the bacterial contamination from vagina. Pregnancy is also a factor due to compression of urethra by the fetus and retention of urine By advancing of age and appearance of prostate adenoma in some males, infections of urinary bladder and kidney become more frequent in them. Nephrolithiasis is also the reason for development of inflammatory of urinary bladder and kidneys.  When the inflammatory process has covered the kidneys, the status of patients is significantly damaged and it is possible to develop more severe complications like inflammation of adjacent tissues or acute renal failure [16]. It is necessary to carry out many examinations for the patients under investigation. These examinations may be costly and time consuming. Our goal is to construct a model that can discover the effective minimum number of tests to identify the previously mentioned diseases. Moreover, the model should use the constructed knowledge base to help doctors in future prediction thus saving time and effort which is very critical for the patients A. Data structure and data variables The medical data used by the proposed multi-agent based model contains instances for patients symptoms related to the diseases Inflammation of urinary bladder and Nephritis of renal pelvis origin. These symptoms are Burn or itch of urethra and swell for its outlet, Lumbar pain, Micturition pains, Occurrence of nausea and Urine pushing \(continuous need for urination 


symptoms and diseases in the same order. We should note that although the model was implemented on specific 542 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications parameters of the medical data for the previously mentioned disease, but it can be applied on different other items representing other symptoms or tests for the patient medical records. Data was distributed in two hospitals as follows One hospital has 99960 medical records while the other has 71400 medical records, with total of medical records to be mined 171,360 medical records. Data of each hospital was loaded into a data warehouse. After ensuring that data is not volatile, missing values which was about 8% of the total amount of data were removed from the data warehouse Figure 2 describes the distributed structure of the medical records in the hospitals. There was some data preprocessing for the initial data before the implementation of the proposed model. Table 2 describes data samples for the medical data after being preprocessed to the Apriori like format TABLE II. DATA SAMPLES FOR THE MEDICAL DATA AFTER BEING PREPROCESSED TO THE APRIORI LIKE FORMAT TID BURN LUMB MICT NAUSEA PUSH INF NEPH 1 No Yes No No No No No 2 Yes No Yes No Yes Yes No 3 No Yes No No No No No 4 Yes No Yes No Yes Yes No 5 No Yes No No No No No B. Rules generated The model was implemented many times on the same data using different values for the support and the confidence. Increasing the value of the confidence led to a small number of generated rules. On the other side decreasing the value of the confidence lead to a huge number of rules, some of them were not relevant and were not interesting. Many researches were done to eliminate the huge number of redundant [17] and non interesting [18 association rules. Although we did not tackle this problem as it is out of our scope in this paper, yet we have found that the best confidence for our medical data was 80%. Table 3 describes some of the medical rules generated by rule agent in the proposed multi-agent based system at confidence 80 TABLE III. SAMPLE OF THE GENERATED MEDICAL RULES \(AT 


CONFIDENCE=80 Ant. ? Cons. Confidence A-D-E ? X 100 D-E-L ? W 100 L-U ? Z 100 M-U ? Y 100 C-X ? Y 80 C-E-X ? Y 80 IV. SIGNIFICANCE IMPORTANCE OF THE MODEL AND JUSTIFICATION OF THE GENERATED RULES Association rules generated by the Rule agent are stored in the knowledge base in the form Antecedent Itemset ? Consequent Itemset With Confidence = c We have selected some of the generated rules in the knowledge base for illustration as follows 1. L-U ? Z IF Lumbar pain AND Urine pushing \(continuous need for urination THEN Nephritis of renal pelvis origin WITH CONFIDENCE 100 2. M-U ? Y IF Micturition pains AND Urine pushing \(continuous need for urination THEN Inflammation of urinary bladder WITH CONFIDENCE 100 3. D-E-L ? W IF No Micturition pains AND No Occurrence of nausea AND Lumbar pain THEN No Inflammation of urinary bladder WITH CONFIDENCE 100 4. A-D-E? X IF No Burn /itch of urethra AND No swell for its outlet AND No Micturition pains AND No Occurrence of nausea THEN No Nephritis of renal pelvis origin WITH CONFIDENCE 100 V. SYSTEM EVALUATION The system is evaluated from the technical and the medical point of views 


A. From the technical point of view 1 The model complies with the Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents \(FIPA next section. It also combines different techniques, like multi-agent systems, association rules as a data mining and the distributed medical databases 2 During the implementation of the multi-agent based model on the distributed medical databases, the model agents achieved the agent properties in which each agent in the model individually exhibited the autonomous behavior. On the other side all agents have presented a coherent behavior when communicating with each other B. From the medical point of view From the medical point of view, the model presented a generic platform for multi-agent systems and provides many contributions for the medical data distributed over different departments in a hospital or different hospital branches located in separate areas. These contributions can be listed as follows 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 543 1 association rule The model has constructed a knowledge base containing many interesting rules that can be very useful for medical experts. This knowledge base architecture can improve the system real time response by identifying some basic features that indicated the presence or the absence of the disease, for instance, rule \(1 2 the Inflammation of urinary bladder AND Nephritis of renal pelvis origin respectively based on the minimal number of symptoms/tests for the patient, thus reducing time to identify the disease and reducing cost for doing other tests On the other side, rules \(3 4 features that indicate the absence of the disease, which means that if these symptoms do not exist, there is no need for further patient examinations for other symptoms or tests 2 The model has presented a diagnostic platform that can help in investigating patients diagnosis based on symptoms or tests done in different hospitals or within the hospital 


departments 3 Based on the rules generated, the model can help doctors in the early prediction for the existence or the absence of the disease based on the previously discovered association rules 4 Due to the early prediction feature of the model described above. This led to minimize the number of tests needed by the doctors, thus minimizing the effort, the cost and the time needed for the patients to do other tests or to be checked for other symptoms VI. CONCLUSION The paper has presented two main contributions. First, a multi-agent based platform with a rule agent for mining association rules in distributed medical databases. This agent modifies the Apriori like algorithm to work in a multi-agent environment and uses the Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents \(FIPA other agents in the platform. This agent is responsible for mining medical rules from the frequent itemsets generated by the main and the local agents. The second contribution is the application of the whole proposed model on two distributed medical databases for the Inflammation of urinary bladder and the Nephritis of renal pelvis origin diseases. The implementation can provide many benefits from the medical point of views; these benefits are the extraction of medical rules that helps in identifying the minimum effective number of tests and the prediction of the existence or the absence of the diseases for patients. The proposed system also improves the diagnostic knowledge for the doctors. Due to the qualitative nature of the medical data used in this experiment, the proposed model is not tested against quantitative attributes. If the data to be mined was quantitative, additional stages may be required to preprocess the data and convert it into crisp values. The other limitation is the overwhelming number of generated rules which is conflicting. This is a well known problem. Much research is done in this area. Our future work is to find solutions to these limitations and to find the best possible solutions for these problems REFERENCES 1] S. M. Chung and W. Qing, "Content-based retrieval and data mining 


of a skin cancer image database," in Information Technology Coding and Computing, 2001. Proceedings. International Conference on, 2001, pp. 611-615 2] H. A. A. Bahamish, et al., "Mining protein data using parallel/distributed association rules," in Information and Communication Technologies: From Theory to Applications, 2004 Proceedings. 2004 International Conference on, 2004, pp. 461-462 3] S. Dua, et al., "Patient classification using association mining of clinical images," in Biomedical Imaging: From Nano to Macro 2008. ISBI 2008. 5th IEEE International Symposium on, 2008, pp 253-256 4] Y. Xing, et al., "A Multi Agent System for Context Based Distributed Data Mining," 2003 5] H. Byung-Mo, et al., "Multi-agent system based efficient healthcare service," in Advanced Communication Technology, 2006. ICACT 2006. The 8th International Conference, 2006, pp. 5 pp.-51 6] A. Talaei-Khoei, et al., "An Awareness Framework for Agent-Based Mobile Health Monitoring," in Next Generation Mobile Applications, Services and Technologies, 2009. NGMAST '09. Third International Conference on, 2009, pp. 108-113 7] Z. Yupeng, et al., "Agent-Based Web Healthcare Systems for RealTime Chronic Disease," in Services - I, 2009 World Conference on 2009, pp. 14-21 8] A. Siddiqa, et al., "A new hybrid agent-based modeling & simulation decision support system for breast cancer data analysis," in Information and Communication Technologies, 2009. ICICT '09 International Conference on, 2009, pp. 134-139 9] L. Cao, Data Mining and Multi-agent Integration vol. 10: Springer 2009 10] A. Ouali, et al., "Agent paradigm in clinical large-scale data mining environment," in Cognitive Informatics, 2003. Proceedings. The Second IEEE International Conference on, 2003, pp. 143-150 11] FIPA. \(May, 2002, Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents Available: http://www.fipa.org/, accessed on 10/06/2010 12] J. Searle, From speech acts to social reality: Cambridge University Press, 1969 13] H. F. Ahmad, "Multi-agent systems: overview of a new paradigm for distributed systems," in High Assurance Systems Engineering, 2002 Proceedings. 7th IEEE International Symposium on, 2002, pp. 101107 14] S. Russell and P. Norvig, Artificial Intelligence : A Modern Approach, third ed.: Prentice Hall, 2003 


15] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large Databases," presented at the Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, 1994 16] NKUDIC. \(June, 2006, National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse:Prostate Enlargement. Available http://kidney.niddk.nih.gov/kudiseases/pubs/prostateenlargement accessed on 10/06/2010 17] M. J. ZAKI, "Mining Non-Redundant Association Rules," Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2004 18] Y. Xu and Y. Li, "Mining for Useful Association Rules Using the ATMS," presented at the International Conference on Computational Intelligence for Modelling, Control and Automation, and International Conference on Intelligent Agents, Web Technologies and Internet Commerce \(CIMCA-IAWTIC05 544 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


8]  Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page. The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual Web search engine. Proceedings of the seventh international conference on World Wide Web 7: pp. 107-117, 1998 9]  J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl and H.Zhu, Mining Access Patterns Efficiently from Web Logs, Proceedings of the Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 396-407 2000 10]  C. H. Cai, A. W. C. Fu, C.H. Cheng and W. W. Kwong, Mining Association Rules with Weighted Items, In Database Engineering and Applications Symposium, Proceedings IDEAS'98, pp. 68  77, 1998 11]  F. Tao, F. Murtagh and M. Farid, Weighted Association Rule Mining using Weighted Support and Significance Framework, In Proceedings of the 9th SIGKDD conference, 2003 12]  Show-Jane Yen, An Efficient Approach for Analyzing User Behaviors in a Web-Based Training Environment, International Journal of Distance Education Technologies, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp.55-71, 2003 13]  Show-Jane Yen, Yue-Shi Lee and Chung-Wen Cho, Efficient Approach for the Maintenance of Path Traversal Patterns, In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on e-Technology, eCommerce and e-Service \(EEE 14]  M. Spiliopoulou and L. C. Faulstich, Wum: A web utilization miner EDBT Workshop WebDB98, Springer Verlag, 1996 15]  M. S. Chen, J. S. Park and P. S. Yu, Efficient data mining for path traversal patterns,  IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, pp. 209-221, 1998 16]  H. Yao,H. J. Hamilton, and C. J. Butz, A Foundational Approach to Mining Itemset Utilities from Databases, Proceedings of the 4th SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, Florida, USA, 2004 17]  Z. Chen, R. H. Fowler and A. Wai-Chee Fu, Linear Time Algorithm for Finding Maximal Forward References, Proceedings of International Conference on Information Technology. Computers and Communications  \(ITCC'2003 18]  T. Jing, Wan-Li Zou and Bang-Zuo Zhang, An Efficient Web Traversal Pattern Mining algorithm Based On Suffix Array, Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics , pp 1535-1539, 2004 19]  Show-Jane Yen, Yue-Shi Lee and Min-Chi Hsieh, An efficient incremental algorithm for mining Web traversal patterns, Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering ICEBE05 20]  L. Zhou, Y. Liu, J. Wang and Y. Shi, Utility-based Web Path  Traversal Pattern Mining, Seventh  IEEE International Conference on Data 


Mining Workshops, pp. 373-378, 2007 21]  C. F. Ahmed, S. K. Tanbeer, Byeong-Soo Jeong and Young-Koo Lee Efficient mining of utility-based web path traversal patterns, 11th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology ICACT09 22]   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank 23] en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Association_rule_mining  Attributes? FPW Algorithm FTPW Algorithm Recognition of User behavior Visiting Frequency Page Rank Time Spent on Web page Page Size Accessibility of required information in less time Improving Web navigation and system design of Web applications  Enhancing server performance 2010 5th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems, ICIIS 2010, Jul 29 - Aug 01, 2010, India 200 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


