Identity Inference as a Privacy Risk in Computer-Mediated Communication  Sara Motahari, Sotirios Ziavras, Ri chard P. Schuler, Quentin Jones New Jersey Institute of Technology sg262, sotirios.g.ziavras, rps22, quentin.jones}@njit.edu   Abstract   New Web 2.0 applications, with their emphasis on collaboration and communication, hold the promise of major advances in social connectivity and coordination; however, they also increase the threats to user privacy. An important, yet under-researched privacy risk results from social inferences about user identity, location, and activities. In this paper, we frame the social inference problem 
We then present the results from a 292 subject experiment that highlights: 1\ the prevalence of social inference risks 2\ people s difficulties in accurately predicting social inference risks; and 3\ the relation between information entropy and social inference. We also show how to predict possible social inferences by modeling users background knowledge and calculating information entropy and discuss how social inference support systems can be deployed that protect user privacy  1. Introduction  Considerable advances in addressing privacy threats have been made in recent years in terms of 
computer and network security s er con t rol  mechanisms a c y policies an d ethical considerations Ho w e ver, ch an g e s in t h e  technological environment are creating numerous new and unaddressed risks to user privacy. A key reason for this is the collaborative and often invasive nature of new mobile and web applications. Such applications can give users the ability to leverage background knowledge about the social environment/context to make unwanted inferences The term inference as used in the privacy literature is the process of deducing unrevealed information as a consequence of being presented with authorized 
information. A well known example of the inference problem relates to an organization s database of employees w h ere t h e rela tion Na m e, Salar y  is a  secret, but user u requests the following two queries List the RANK and SALARY of all employees and List the NAME and RANK of all employees None of the queries violates the security requirement because they do not contain the secured < NAME; SALARY pair; however, since employees ranks appear in both 
pairs, the querier can use it to map employees names to their salaries and infer their salaries  Inference is mostly known as a security threat to databases d  sometimes as a privacy risk in data mining  Although the inference problem as a threat to database confidentiality is discussed in many studies, mobile social computing raises new classes of more complicated inferences which we call social inference s. Social inferences are inferences that result from using social applications and are about user 
information associated with these applications such as identity, location, activities, social relations, and profile information. Previous inference prevention methods are not enough to address social inferences since in this domain   Users are able to learn information outside the application \(background knowledge\d use this information as a premise to make inferences Therefore, in contrast to the name-rank-salary example, their premises are not limited to the information revealed by the application   Most social inferences are partial inferences not 
absolute inferences, i.e., they don t logically result from the premises as in the name-rank-salary example, but they can be guessed as a result of low information entropy; and   The sensitivity of user information may have a dynamic nature based on the context, such as time and location While numerous social computing applications aim to address privacy concerns through access control  e.g F a cebook en ables  u s ers to s e t priv a c y  preferences\direct access control models fail to prevent unwanted inferences In this paper, we analyze the social inference 
problem in social computing systems theoretically and empirically. We present results of our study on subjects chatting with unknown partners and use our study results to show how identity inferences happen and what comprises users background knowledge that leads to identity inferences. We will also show that while many subjects have anonymity concerns, they Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


are not able to realize what level of anonymity they are really maintaining. We then propose prediction methods and solutions taking consideration that most inferences in social computing are partial inferences based on background knowledge  2. Social Computing and Privacy Risks  Social computing is the act of using social software. Social software describes any type of software that connects users and supports social interaction and sharing A  w i de v a riet y of social applications and mobile social computing applications exist; email and instant messaging are simple ways of on-line communications. Many social applications such as Facebook and Myspace enable users to exchange messages, reveal their profile items and find profile-based matches. Some of them such as LoveGety leverage location and mobility to provide innovative services [13    The use and sharing of geo-temporal \(user location histories\nd personal information raises many serious privacy concerns. Seven categories of potential privacy invasions in mobile social computing systems were introduced in a previous study  T h e y are 1  Inappropriate use by Administrators For example, a system administrator may sell personal data without permission 2  Legal Obligations For example, a system administrator may be forced by an organization such as the police to reveal personal data 3  Inadequate Security For example, the server is not protected against intrusions or wireless transmission through the air is not secured 4  Lack of Control over Direct Revelations Poor Features For example, a cell phone application that reveals my location to my friends, but does this without properly informing me or giving me control of this feature 5  Instantaneous Social Inferences For example when my cell phone shows that Bob is nearby and I can only see two people with a similar cell phone around me. One of them must be Bob, thus increasing my chance of identifying him 6  Historical Social Inferences through persistent user observation. For example, two nicknames are repeatedly shown on the first floor of the gym where the gym assistant normally sits. One of them must be the gym assistant 7  Social Leveraging of Privileged Data For example, David can't access my location, but Jane can David asks Jane my location Social inferences include the fifth and sixth category. They are inferences about user information associated with mobile social applications such as identity, location, activities, social relations, and profile information Based on information theory, as we collect more information about a user, such as his/her contextual situation, our uncertainty about other aspects such as his/her identity may be reduced, thus increasing our probability of correctly guessing these aspects. This uncertainty is measured by information entropy in information theory. As we will see, this entropy also depends on the number of entities \(e.g., users\at match our collected information. Collected information includes not only the information that our system provides to users, but the information available outside of database or background knowledge. Therefore social inferences happen when collected information reduces the inferrer s uncertainty about an attribute to a level that she/he could deduce that attribute s value The social inference problem can include a wide range of issues. However, any inference that results from using social applications can be made in one of the following two ways: 1\e inferrer uses only the current state of the system. This type of inference is based only on the current observation of the system and is called instantaneous inference our fifth category\e inferrer uses the history of her/his observations \(or the history of the answers to previous queries\which is called historical inference  Based on the nature of mobile social applications social inferences are either the result of accessing location-based information or the result of social communications, or both. We call the first type location-related inferences and the second type inferences in computer-mediated communications The following three scenarios illustrate this point: 1 Instantaneous social inferences in online communications Cathy chooses a nickname for her profile and hides her real name, but her profile shows that she is a female football player. Since there are only a few female football players at my school, there is a high chance that I can identify her; 2 Instantaneous location-related social inferences My cell phone shows few nicknames in a room and I know \(or I find out from the school s website\ that the room is Professor Smith s office. Therefore, there is a high probability that Prof. Smith is in his office and one of those few nicknames belongs to him; 3 Historical location-related inferences  Two users identified as Superman2 and Prof. Johnson are repeatedly shown in a room, which I know is Prof. Johnson s office. I also know \(or I find out from the school s website\that David is his PhD student. Therefore, Superman2 is probably David and he is currently at Prof. Johnson s office Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


3.0 Instantiated Privacy Management Solutions  Extensive research focuses on helping computer users protect their privacy. Researchers have looked at various aspects of privacy enhancement such as ethics of information management, system features, access control systems, and security and database confidentiality protection. We classify their effort into four sections as discussed below  1  Ethics, principles, and rules To properly respond to concerns of ethics and principles, and to protect the user privacy, researchers have made various suggestions. In particular, Langheinrich [17 d e fi ne s  the principles of fair information practices as openness and transparency, individual participation, collection limitation, data quality, use limitation, reasonable security, accountability, and explicit consent. He then sets principles for privacy in mobile computing, that consist of notice, choice, proximity, anonymity security, and access 2  Access control systems Access control systems provide the user with an interface to set their privacy preferences. They directly control people s access to the user s information based on his privacy settings. Access control systems with an interface to protect user privacy started with internetworking Later, they were extended to context-aware and then ubiquitous computing. The earliest work within this area is  P3P [5 P 3 P en ables u s ers to reg u late th eir  settings based on different factors including consequence, data-type, retention, purpose, and recipient. Ackerman m p l e m e n ted crit icb as ed  agents, called  Privacy Critics, for online interactions These agents watch the user's actions and make appropriate privacy suggestions. Access control mechanisms for mobile and location-aware computing were introduced later [12, 15, 18, 27  3. Security protection Security protection handles the following aspects   Availability \(services are available to authorized users   Integrity \(free from unauthorized manipulation   Confidentiality \(only the intended user receives the information   Accountability \(actions of an entity must be traced uniquely   Assurance \(assure that the security measures have been properly implemented The inference problem is mostly known as a security problem that targets system-based confidentiality. Confidentiality protection is the area that includes most of the previous research on the inference problem. Therefore, suggested solutions often deal with secure database design. There are also methods that evaluate the queries to predict any inference risks. Both methods are explained in the next section  4. Inference management Two different techniques have been proposed to identify and remove inference channels. One makes use of semantic data modeling methods to locate inference channels in the database design and then to redesign the database to remove these channels. The other technique evaluates database queries to understand whether they lead to unauthorized inferences. Each technique has its drawbacks, the former is vulnerable to false positives and negatives and denial of service attacks. The latter usually has a high computational complexity Additionally, a dynamic social environment limits the usability of such systems because they can restrictively limit a user s access to information. Both techniques have been studied for statistical databases  multilevel secure databases  [14, 28 d g e n e ral purpose databases A fe w res earc h ers h a v e al s o  addressed this problem via data mining i n c e i n  the domain of mobile social computing user information and preferences are dynamic, the first technique cannot be used in such systems Denning and Morgenstern, pioneers in calculating the partial inference risk, employed classical information theory to measure the inference chance [8  e n t w o data i t e m s  x and y let H\(y denote the entropy of y and  x H y denote the entropy of y given x where entropy is as defined in information theory Then, the reduction in uncertainty of y given x is defined as follows      x H yHy Infer x y Hy    The value of Infer  x y s between 0  and 1 representing how likely it is to derive y given x If the value is 1, then y can be definitely inferred given x  Denning and Morgenstern did not know how to use this formulation in real situations and they mention the serious drawbacks of using this technique i rs t l y   it is difficult, if not impossible, to determine the value of   x H y secondly, the computational complexity that is required to draw the inference is igno  Nevertheless, this formulation has the advantage of presenting the probabilistic nature of inference \(i.e inference is a relative not an absolute concept Although the inference problem includes a wide range of issues, studies and polls suggest that identity is the most sensitive piece of users information and anonymity preservation is an important aspect of application designs and research A n o n y m i t y  is defined as not having identifying characteristics Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


such as a name or description of physical appearance disclosed so that the participants remain unidentifiable to anyone outside the permitted people promised at the time of informed consent  R ecen tl y  n e w  m e a s u r e s  of privacy called k anonymity and L-diversity have gained popularity k anonymity is suggested to manage identity inference, while L-diversity is suggested to protect both identity inference and attribute inference in databases. In a k anonymized dataset, each record is indistinguishable from at least k 1 other records with respect to certain identifying  attributes. These techniques can be broadly classified into generalization techniques, generalization with tuple suppression techniques, and data swapping and randomization techniques. Nevertheless k anonymized datasets are vulnerable to many inference attacks including attacks based on background knowledge Identity inferences in next generation mobile social computing systems cannot be addressed by the above techniques because   The sensitivity of user information is dynamic in nature based on the context, such as time and location   Information such as life patterns, physical characteristics, and the quality of social relations that are not kept in the database can be inferred from information available to the user. Therefore inferences in such systems are not limited to attribute disclosures   Users background knowledge \(the information users learn outside the database\ a premise in many inferences We will demonstrate how by assuming an ideal perfect model of the background knowledge in mobile social computing systems and focusing on anonymity protection, our modeling and use of inference chance based on information entropy can sometimes simplify into a dynamic k anonymity problem  4. Aims and Research Questions  An important role of social applications is to help users enhance their social network and make new social ties. Social networking sites such as Facebook and Orkut allow you to view users profile information based on their privacy settings and to exchange messages. A popular way of making new social ties is social matching [31  Fo r exa m p l e   fr i e nd o f fr i e nd  systems provide users access to various parts of their friends profile e x ist i ng social  m a tch i n g  systems such as OKCupid and Orkut users usually utilize a combination of synchronous and asynchronous private messages, profile comments, and friend requests to move the introduction forward  While messaging and exchanging profile items help the introduction process, revealing profile items during this introduction increases the chance of social inferences and in particular identity inference, which lead to anonymity violation. We were interested in answering the following questions regarding the social inference risks associated with social computing applications   How and how often do users make social inferences   What are the best predictors of the chances of a social inference   What is the impact of conversation parameters and user interface on the chance of a social inference   What level of anonymity is desired by the users and are they able to reach that   What background knowledge do individuals routinely use to make social inferences As a first step in addressing these questions we conducted a user experiment exploring identity inferences in computer-mediated communication between unknown chat partners  5. Method  5.1  Subjects  All subjects were recruited through desks situated in the campus center of a medium sized urban university with the offer of $20 for: 1\tering a personal profile online; 2\ticipating in a short chat experiment; followed by 3\completing a short post chat survey. Five hundred and thirty students completed the profile entry portion, 304 participated in the chat session of which 292 subjects completed all three study components. Subjects were exclusively university students representative of the various majors offered on campus and ranging from 18 to 57 years old. Twenty three percent of the subjects were female and 66% of the subjects were commuters \(living off campus  5.2  Procedure  Phase I Online Profile Entry The online profile consisted of 67 individual profile fields \(items clustered into 5 broad categories \(basic information personal information, education information, contact information, and interests\ompleting the profile entry web page took subjects approximately 10 minutes Phase II Chat Experiment Subjects that completed the profile entry were able to select various time slots to participate in the chat experiment. These Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


subjects were then randomly assigned to one of four experimental conditions \(described below differentiated by the introduction mechanism used Phase III Post Chat Survey After completing the chat session subjects answered a survey which asked about their chat partner, the level of anonymity they had desired and achieved at the end of the chat session and their willingness/desire to meet their chat partner  5.3  Introduction Mechanism   Participants used a custom-developed software application designed to aid in communication and exchange of personal profile information. The application was exclusively intended for use in a larger study on strangers communication, of which the study described in this paper, was a part After both participants authenticate, each participant sees his/her own profile on the left side of the screen, a chat box for typing in the center, and his/her chat partner s profile \(all information hidden by default\ the right side, and action buttons \(e.g., end chat, etc.\e center bottom By default, a participant s profile information is completely hidden from her/his partner and vice versa To reveal a field in her/his profile to her/his partner the participant simply clicks on the desired field. When a participant reveals a field, it appears on the right side of her/his partner s screen next to the appropriate field in a yellow highlight on both screens. Similarly, a participant can request parts of his/her partner s profile by clicking on the item which makes it appear in a green highlight. Participants also have the option of requesting and revealing whole sections of a profile by clicking on each of 5 broad category labels Depending on the condition, participants could perform 16 actions such as reveal, request, chat, or use the action buttons  5.4  Experimental Conditions  Condition 1 Chat Only \(75 subjects   In this condition, profiles are disabled and although subjects can see their own profile on the left side of the screen they cannot reveal and request profile items. They can only chat by typing in the chat box  Condition 2 Introduction Mechanism only \(72 subjects In this condition, participants could only click on profile fields to reveal or request them, but could not type in the chat box and use it for a regular chat Conditions 3 \(63 subjects\ and 4 \(82 subjects Chat and Introduction Mechanism Conditions 3 and 4 enabled participants to use both profiles and the simple typing mechanism of the chat box. They could reveal their previously entered profile information by clicking on it or typing it, they also had the option of general text based chat where it was possible for them to reveal any kind of information  In condition 3 revealed profile fields of a subject s partner would disappear from the subject screen after 5 seconds and to see it again, the subject had to click on it, or scroll the middle box up to find it. However, in condition 4 revealed information stayed visible until the end of the session  5.5  Post Experimental Chat Survey  Following questions related to social inferences were asked in the post chat survey 1  Without your chat partner revealing her/his complete name, do you think you could work out your partner \(such as guess his name or remember his physical appearance o  I am able to guess exactly who my partner is now, although s/he didn't introduce o  I was able to guess exactly who my partner was during the chat and I was right o  I guessed exactly who my partner was during the chat, but I was wrong o  I was/am able to guess that I had seen my partner before, but I only knew her/his physical appearance o  I was/am able to narrow my partner down to a few possible individuals before a complete introduction, but I didn't know exactly who s/he was If you're able to narrow her/him down to a few people how many people would that be 2  Please elaborate on the details you deduced or guessed about her/his identity without your partner revealing it. If you guessed some possible names please mention the names or if you think you have seen her/ him, elaborate on her/his physical characteristics such as height, weight, facial features, etc 3  How did you make the above guesses on the person s identity? What knowledge did you use to do this 4  After this conversation, given enough time and other information sources available to you, how well do you think you can identify your chat partner 5  Please mention all the information sources you may use to do so 6  How anonymous did you want to be to your chat partner before you decided to introduce yourself 7  What does your partner know about you In questions 4, 6, and 7, subjects were given options similar to question 1  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


5.6  Dependent and Independent Variables  In addition to answers directly collected from the survey, the following parameters were calculated for each subject   Duration of the introduction phase \(chat   Software condition used   Number of profile items revealed   Profile items revealed in the conversations. All information revealed was coded into the field number Fields revealed by using the mechanism were automatically coded and typed information was hand coded   Name-revelation defined as 1 if the complete name was revealed   Immediate-introduction defined as 1 if complete name was the first thing to be revealed   Maintained degree of anonymity the number of people to who the subject s partner could correctly narrow him down. For example, if subject A can correctly narrow subject B down to 2 individuals subject B s maintained degree of anonymity will be 2   Desired degree of anonymity indicates what degree of anonymity a subject wished to maintain. For example, if subject B does not want to be exactly identified, her desired degree of anonymity will be 2    Perceived degree of anonymity   shows what degree of anonymity the subject thought he maintained    Estimated degree of anonymity A measure of information entropy, which shows our estimation of what degree of anonymity a subject really maintained based on what they revealed. We estimated this variable based on profiles of 530 students that registered for the study.  Details of calculation will be explained in section 7.2; and    Identity  inference incidents to model the inference risk, we defined this variable, which was set to 1 if subjects could narrow their partner down to less than 50 people  6. Results  6.1. Identity Inferences  Eighty percent of the subjects said they had no idea who their partners were before a complete introduction. Among the 20% who said they could guess something, 55% were correct \(11% of total subjects\d the rest were wrong or not clear enough about what they inferred. In addition, 8.5% of the subjects guessed exactly their partner s identity. Fiftysix percent of the subjects said that having access to information sources, they could at least narrow their partner down to a few individuals As expected, all inferences happened when a subject s revealed information combined with their partner s background knowledge resulted in low information entropy which led to uniqueness of revealed information. For example, a subject revealed her gender, ethnicity, and group memberships to be female, Hispanic, and soccer team member respectively. Her partner, who had seen the women s soccer team playing, knew there was only one Hispanic player on the team and was able to infer who she was Other examples included revelation of gender ethnicity, and courses taken \(white girl attended a chemistry class\, ethnicity and occupation \(Indian resident assistant in the dormitories  6.2. Predictor of the Identity Inference  A binary stepwise Logistic Regression test was performed on the identity-inference-incident  dependent variable\d the independent variables duration, condition, number of revealed items, namerevelation, immediate-introduction, desired-degree-ofanonymity, perceived degree of anonymity and estimated degree of anonymity Only estimated degree of anonymity showed was a reliable predictor of the identity inference incident Wald 2 55.1, degree of freedom: df=8, p=0.016\This suggests that our estimated degree of anonymity is the only strong predictor of social inference incidents As we will see in section 7.2, in a simplistic case identity entropy of person B in this study is determined by estimated degree of anonymity Therefore, our estimation of information entropy was the best predictor of the chances of a correct social inference  6.3. The Impact of Conversation Features  Although more inferences were made in condition 1 \(chat-only\an in condition 2 \(introduction mechanism-only\o significant statistical difference was found between experimental conditions. Users reveal many more profile fields in condition 2 and less in condition 1 \(the mean number of items revealed was 4.39 for condition 1 and 31.58 for condition 2\his is probably because profile exchange and profile revelation requests are the only actions possible in condition 2. However, as we saw in section 6.2 revealing more profile items is not necessarily equivalent to maintaining less entropy and revealing more identifiers. A Spearman correlation test shows a small correlation between the number of revealed items and our estimated degree of anonymity n=288 Spearman rho=0.21, p=0.005\ There was no Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


significant correlation between the maintained degree of anonymity and number of revealed items \(n=288 Spearman s rho =0.018, p=0.76  6.4. Subjects Ability to Maintain Their Desired Degree of Anonymity  The level of anonymity desired varied greatly, 72% of the subjects who had anonymity concerns did not want to be exactly identified by their name or face, 6.3% of them did not want to be narrowed down to two people or less and the rest desired a higher degree of anonymity Although perceived degree of anonymity for a subject and maintained degree of anonymity for their partner had a small correlation \(n=254, Spearman s rho=0.155, p=0.031\ they were equal only 48% of the time. This means 52% of participants could not guess what their partner knew about their identity.  Spearman correlation test showed a small correlation between estimated degree of anonymity and maintained degree of anonymity However estimated degree of anonymity  was smaller than maintained degree of anonymity for 20% of the subjects, which means 20% of the subjects revealed identifiers that put them at the risk of unwanted identity inference. Fifteen percent of the subjects wished to be anonymous even though they revealed their full name during the conversation  6.5. Sources of Background Knowledge  During their chats subjects did not have access to search tools, personal profiles, or other information sources. Hence, they only inferred their partners  identities if revealed information helped them realize that they had seen their partner before or if they already had enough knowledge to be able to narrow their partner down to a few people When subjects were asked to mention the information sources they would use, they mentioned sites that include personal profiles such as Facebook Myspace, and Orkut. Other sources included the university directory and website, Yahoo and AIM to search email addresses, and phone directories to search for phone numbers We also noticed that subjects tend to guess their partners gender and home country from their chat style Subjects responses show that the chat style includes the way someone answers a question, slang and abbreviations they use, and their English language fluency. When participants where asked to elaborate on details they guessed about their partner s identity, 11 percent of them guessed their partners gender and 6 guessed their partners country/region. They were correct around 94% of the time about gender and 87 of the time about home country. This result suggests that gender and region are two types of probable background information with probabilities of 10.4 and 5.2% respectively 7. Social Inference Prediction and Theoretic Frame  The results of our study suggest the need for an inference control system in social computing. We saw that social inferences happen as a result of low information entropy. An inferrer usually reaches this low entropy by combining the information he receives from the application combined with his background knowledge Cuppons and Trouessin f o r m u l a t e inf e ren c e  control as follows   If A is permitted to know Q and A can do the derivation Q  en A should be permitted to know Consequently, if we want  to be forbidden for A  and  can be inferred from Q  Q should be forbidden for A as well To understand what determines Q  we need to remember that considering partial inferences in a mobile social computing system  may not be logically deduced from Q as indicated by Q  but as Morgenstern mentions may belong to the Sphere Of Influence of Q   SOI Q  W e def i n e th a t in a  mobile social computing system belongs to the Sphere Of Influence of Q   SOI Q  if knowing Q  reduces the uncertainty about enough to make an inference. Accordingly, we modify Cuppons  formulation as follows: We define Q to be the information included in the query, its answer, and background knowledge that is modeled as described below Q is safe to be completely known by A if     AA SOI Q PK Q PK      which means  A is permitted to know Q only if he is permitted to know everything in its Sphere Of Influence  7.1. Modeling Background Knowledge Most previous inference control frameworks are vulnerable to attacks based on background knowledge Background knowledge is the information available to users outside the database. This information should be assumed to be known by all the users just like answers to their queries are assumed to be known by them Thuraisingham t s ou t th at to pres e rv e  database integrity, sometimes we need to model user knowledge in the outside world. As Jajodia and Midows a y   We have no way of controlling what data is learned outside of the database, and our abilities to predict it will be limited. Thus, even the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


best model can give us only an approximate idea of how safe a database is from illegal inferences  The results of our user study suggest that subjects not only use searching profiles and the campus directory \(which is an organization s website\to identify their chat partner, but also tend to guess their partner s gender and home country from what they usually term as their chat style We categorize background information associated with computermediated communication as follows: the organization s website and public information, personal profiles phone and address directories, gender, and home country  In the examples illustrated in section 2, we showed how in a location-aware system there exist meanings and implications associated with location, such as visual information of nearby people, ownership common usage, and purpose of places, etc. That indicates background knowledge associated with location which includes the official manager of the place and people related to her/him, official use and schedule of the place, and visual information of the inferrer s vicinity  Having all the information modeled in Q we can estimate SOI  Q   7.2. Calculating the Entropy for Instantaneous Inferences \(Category 5 As mentioned in Section 3, Morgenstern formulated for the first time partial inferences based on the entropy of information, but he didn t know how to calculate it in the general sense. We modified his formulation for social computing applications to calculate the instantaneous inference risk We want to calculate the risk that an attribute is inferred from revealed information Q We define the inference function as follows  max max 1   c H H INF Q H    1  where H max represents the maximum information entropy for the environment and is fixed for any given application H c is the information entropy under the current conditions and is dynamic based on the situation H max is calculated as follows max 2 1 log X H PP   2 where P 1 X and X is the maximum number of entities users\e application   c H is calculated as follows 2 1 1  log 1  V c i H Pi Pi    3  where V is the number of possible values for attribute   P 1\(i\ the probability that the i th possible value is thought to be the correct one by the inferrer. If the inferrer didn t know the collected information Q  could be any of the possible values with the prior probability of 1 X This results in maximum entropy H max However, after having access to Q  P 1\(i\e posterior probability of each value and equals P given Q When INF1 is too high, say larger than C an appropriate action needs to be taken. The appropriate action can be rejecting the query, blurring the answer or sending a warning to the owner of the information We will provide further examples to explain this model For example to calculate the identity inference risk of user A in an on-line communication similar to our above study Q profile items matching A s profile items that are already revealed 1  Partner s identity at name or face granularity X   total number of potential users of the application V: number of users that satisfy Q   We define Group F: users that are the same sex as A and satisfy Q  Group G: users that come from the same country/region as A and satisfy Q X 1: number of users in group F X 2: number of users in group G X 3: number of users in the intersection of F and G F G probability of guessing the right gender from the partner s chat style \(which was shown to be 10.4% in our user study probability of guessing the right home country from the partner s chat style \(which was shown to be 5.2 in our user study   If users use their guesses on gender and home country as their background knowledge   3 1 1\+\(1   2\   for F G 1 1\+\(1 1  for F-F G 1 1   2\+\(1 1  for G-F G 1 1\/V                         for the rest of users XX X XV P XV                  4 This means that users of the same gender and ethnicity \(F G\ave the highest probability and the users, who don t fall in F or G have the lowest probability   If there are no guesses involved and background knowledge only includes deterministic information \(which is publicly available P 1=1/V  5  In the second case, according to equations 6 and 3 H c equals 1 V 1 V herefore, if we assume Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


that all the information available to the users is deterministic \(which means if they are able to access the information source, they are either able to know the exact answer or not\d assume that all information available outside the database is included in Q for any given application and known condition INF 1 is only determined by the number of users satisfying that condition V hat is how we calculated estimated degree of anonymity in section 6 \(number of users who share the same revealed profile items\used it to perform the regression test in our user study and we saw that estimated degree of anonymity was the only strong predictor of the inference chance Furthermore, to have an INF 1 value smaller than the associated threshold in the second case, at least U  indistinguishable users are needed in the situation. This satisfies k anonymity with k  U However, our entropy control method is more general than the k anonymity solution. In particular, it can model a probabilistic model of background knowledge, such as guesses on gender and home country. It can also be used to calculate the risk of inferring other attributes such as location 7.3. Calculation of Entropy for Historical Inferences \(Category 6 Our model in the previous category applies here as well, but in this category Q also includes answers to past queries. The inference chance will be calculated from an inference formula similar to \(1\ described below  max max max max max max  2   ii i i HH HH if C HH INF Q HH if C H       012 6 where max 2 1 log Y H PP   max H is again fixed for each application number of queries that involve the attribute and were sent after max max  i HHH  reached the threshold value C  V 1 1  log 1  i H Pi Pi   where P 1 is the probability that a value is thought to be the correct attribute value by the inferrer V is the number of possible values repeated in previous queries starting at the current time and going back an amount of time equal to T\(given In  this formulation INF i 2 also considers the history of the queries  Unlike INF1  INF i 2 is calculated for any time slot i  INF i 2 is between 0 and 1 until  H max H i  H max  reaches the threshold value C. When INF i 2 equals C, entropy of is too low and sending multiple queries involving  can lead to an inference Therefore, at this time INF i 2 starts counting the new queries. After INF i 2 passes a number of queries, say K the system takes an appropriate action such as dynamic blurring. We consider discrete finite duration T for past queries since humans don t have a perfect memory Thus, we assume they forget the answers to queries sent more than T time units ago. However, to protect the system against inference attacks, the calculation and results can be extended for T  Obviously, if time slots i and j overlap, rejecting a query based on INF i 2 affects the value of INF i 2   8. Conclusion  This article highlights the significant privacy threats associated with the use of social software resulting from social inference. The nature of this social inference problem was illustrated through a 292 subject experiment, which showed that   Identity inferences are frequently made in on-line communication   Different users desire different levels of anonymity   Even when users are in complete control of the information they reveal, they are not able to maintain their desired degree of anonymity. This is because individuals are unable to correctly judge inference risks; and   Information entropy, calculated by construction of an idealized model of background knowledge, was the only measure found to strongly predict identity inference These results validate our methods for calculating information entropy. They also highlight the need for social inference protection systems. Such protection systems could improve user inference-risk judgments through techniques, such as risk visualizations or warning messages. Alternatively inference protection systems could modify information exchange, for example, by lowering the granularity of revealed information  9. Acknowledgments  This research is partially supported by the National Science Foundation Grant NSF IIS DST 0534520 and NSF CNS 0454081. The opinions expressed are those of the authors and may not reflect those of the NSF  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


10. References   1 Ackerman, M. and Cranor, L., Privacy Critics: UI Components to Safeguard Users Privacy. in ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems CHI99 1999 2 Boyd, D., Friendster and publicly articulated social networking. in Conference on Human Factors and Computing Systems Vienna, April 24-29, 2004\ ACM 3 Brodsky, A., Farkas, C. and Jajodia, S. Secure databases: constraints, inference channels, and monitoring disclosures IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering  2 6\. 900-919 4 Cornwell, J., Fette, I., Hsieh, G., Prabaker, M Rao, J., Tang, K., Vaniea, K., Bauer, L., Cranor, L., Hong, J McLaren, B., Reiter, M. and Sadeh, N., User-controllable security and privacy for pervasive computing. in WMCSA 07: Proceedings of the 8th IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems & Applications 2007 5 Cranor, L., Langheinrich, M., Marchiori, M. and Reagle, J. The Platform for Privacy Preferences 1.0 \(P3P1.0 Specification W3C recommendation 2002 6 Cuppens, F. and Trouessin, G. Information Flow Controls vs Inference Controls: An Integrated Approach Third European Symposium on Research in Computer Security \(ESORICS 94 1994 7 Dawson, S., Capitani, S.D. and Samarati, d.V.P Specification and Enforcement of Classification and Inference Constraints IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy  8 Denning, D.E. and Morgenstern, M. Military database technology study: AI techniques for security and reliability SRI Technical report 1986 9 Doyle, D. Trans-disciplinary Inquiry Researching with Rather than Researching on. in Campbell, A. and Groundwater-Smith, S. eds An Ethical Approach to Practitioner Research: Dealing with Issues and Dilemmas in Action Research Routledge 2007 10 Farkas, C. and Jajodia, S. The inference problem: a survey SIGKDD Explorer Newsletter  4 2\. 6-11 11 Heinrich, E. Electronic Repositories of Marked Student Work and their Contributions to Formative Evaluation Educational Technology & Society  7 3\. 82-96 12 Hong, D., Yuan, M. and Shen, V.Y., Dynamic Privacy Management: a Plugin Service for the Middleware in Pervasive Computing. in ACM 7th international conference on Human computer interaction with mobile devices services 2005\, 1-8 13 Iwatani, Y. Love: Japanese Style http://www.wired.com/culture/lifestyle/news/1998/06/12899  14 Jajodia, S. and Meadows, C Inference Problems in Multilevel Secure Database Management Systems IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, California, USA 1995 15 Jendricke, U., Kreutzer, M. and Zugenmaier, A Pervasive Privacy with Identity Management Workshop on Security in Ubiquitous Computing - Ubicomp 2002 16 Kobsa, A. and Schreck, J. Privacy through pseudonymity in user-adaptive systems ACM Transactions on Internet Technology \(TOIT  3 2\. 149 - 183 17 Langheinrich, M., Privacy by Design Principles of Privacy-Aware Ubiquitous Systems. in Third International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing \(UbiComp 2001  2001\, 273-291 18 Lederer, S. Designing Disclosure: Interactive Personal Privacy at the Dawn of Ubiquitous Computing Computer Science Division University of California at Berkeley, 2003 19 Lunt, T.F. Current Issues in Statistical Database Security IFIP Transactions, Results of the IFIP WG 11.3 Workshop on Database Security V: Status and Prospects A-6  381-385 20 Machanavajjhala, A., Gehrke, J. and Kifer, D Diversity: Privacy Beyond k-Anonymity. in Proceedings of the 22nd IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2006 2006 21 Madan, A. and Pentland, A.S. VibeFones: Socially Aware Mobile Phones 10th IEEE International Symposium on Wearable Computers 2006 22 Morgenstern, M., Controlling Logical Inference in Multilevel Database Systems. in Proc of IEEE symp on security and privacy 1988\, 245-255 23 Morgenstern, M., Security and Inference in Multilevel Database and Knowledge-Base Systems. in Proceedings of the 1987 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data 1987 24 Motahari, S., Manikopoulos, C., Hiltz, R. and Jones, Q., Seven privacy worries in ubiquitous social computing. in ACM International Conference Proceeding Series; Proceedings of the 3rd symposium on Usable privacy and security 2007\, 171-172 25 Narayanan, A. and Shmatikov, V., Obfuscated Databases and Group Privacy. in 12th ACM conference on Computer and communications security 2005\, 102-111 26 O'Leary, D.E. Some Privacy Issues in Knowledge Discovery: The OECD Personal Privacy Guidelines IEEE Expert: Intelligent Systems and Their Applications 10 2 48-52 27 Osbakk, P. and Ryan, N., Context, CC/PP, and P3P. in UbiComp 2002 Adjunct Proceedings Göteborg Sweden, 2002 28 Stachour, P.D. and Thuraisingham, B. Design of LDV: A Multilevel Secure Relational Database Management  IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering  2  2\. 190-209 29. Stallings, W Cryptography and Network Security Principles and Practices Pearson Prentice Hall 30 Sweeney, L. Achieving k-Anonymity Privacy Protection Using Generalization And Suppression International Journal on Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-based Systems  10 5\. 571-588 31 Terveen, L. and McDonald, D. Social Matching ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction TOCHI  12 3\. 401 - 434 32 Thuraisingham, B. privacy constraint processing in a privacy-enhanced database management system data and knowledge engineering  55 2\. 159-188  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11  


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


