A Life Cycle Model of Virtual Communities   Elham Mousavidin University of Houston C.T. Bauer College of Business Department of Decision & Information Sciences emousavi@mail.uh.edu  Lakshmi Goel University of Houston C.T. Bauer College of Business Department of Decision & Information Sciences lgoel@uh.edu   Abstract The importance of virtual communities is well 
established in Information Systems \(IS\ research. A significant number of studies on this topic have focused on investigating motivators and inhibitors of members participation. However, virtual communities are not static, but dynamically evolve and often die to be replaced by other virtual communities. To date, there is very little research that investigates the life cycle of virtual communities The goal of this research is to identify influences that could explain this phenomenon. We summarize our insights in the form of a conceptual model 
  1. Introduction  Literature on virtual communities \(VCs\as its roots in Electronic Information Exchange Systems EIESs\which were computer conferencing systems connecting people electronically n ce th e n  electronic communication has evolved from virtual Bulletin Boards, in late 1970s, to commercialized Multi-User Dungeons/Domains \(MUDs\n the early 1980s, to current forms of virtual communities, such as social systems like Orkut, Facebook, or Slashdot  T h e tech n o logies a s s o ci ated w i th  th e ev ol v i n g  
form of virtual communities have also changed from text-based interfaces to graphically rich environments in applications such as MMORPGs \(Massively Multi-Player Online Role Playing Games While the community aspect has been questioned in a virtual setting by some [11, 24, 26 46 m a ny res earch er s v i e w t h e v i rtu a l m e dium as a means to build communities when not possible in real life [7, 40, 52, 53, 54 T h is  m i x e d opinion about virtual communities has not 
discouraged growth of virtual communities. Many prominent multinational companies have used virtual communities of practice as a tool to add a human side to their knowledge management \(KM\ystems. Some of these companies include HP British Petroleum Chevron, Ford, Xerox, Raytheon, IBM, and Shell  e v i rt u a l co mm un itie s g r o w rapidl y i n  popularity and membership and pass the test of time while others fail. A systematic conceptual framework that explains the life of virtual communities has not 
yet been developed. Some successful virtual communities do not start off as being successful These communities go through a phase of major silen o re g a i n ing li f e S o m e oth e r  abandoned, or dead, communities sometimes become active again. While most research on virtual communities focuses on the motivators and barriers of participation, little research addresses the holistic notion of the life and death of a virtual community. In this paper, we focus on the life cycle of virtual communities, and the factors that affect it. The paper 
concludes with a conceptual model of the life of virtual communities. This conceptual model aims at providing a starting point for a framework for virtual community life cycle research  2. Literature Review  In this section we review literature on virtual communities to get an understanding of, and draw on the current body of knowledge. In the literature review, we look at emergent themes that could explain the phenomenon more clearly. In doing so 
we first review different approaches in existing literature through which virtual communities have been studied. We next draw on prior research to elucidate each element that comprises our conceptual model for the life of a virtual community. We subsequently present the resultant conceptual model  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


2.1. Different approaches to studying VCs  There are three predominant approaches to studying virtual communities. First, at the level of analysis of the community as a whole, research is focused on the sense of community felt by all members and the issues around it. Second, at the discourse level of analysis, the focus is on individual members and the content that results from the discourse in the community. Third, at the level of the analysis of the relationships between members, the focus is on ties and links among members. We present literature on each of the three approaches next Researchers have used the term virtual communities loosely to refer to a number of people with shared interests communicating through a virtual medium w e ver, th ere h a s  n o t been consensus on the criteria based on which an online group would qualify as a community For the most part, virtual communities have been compared to real life \(RL\ communities. Therefore, a sense of community, or sense of connectedness to the group has been considered a significant factor for sustainability by some researchers [e.g Blanchard and Markus def i n e s e n s e o f  v i rtu a l community as a feeling of membership, influence need fulfillment and emotional connection p. 69 They add that if sense of virtual community SOVC  exists, members maintain norms and show support and reveal other community-like behaviors. They found members recognition by others, identifying them by their names, providing them with socioemotional support, developing personal relationships with them, building emotional attachments, and feeling obligated to give back to the community were some of the community behaviors that members revealed. They classified these behaviors under three general categories: exchanging support, creating identities and making identifications, and production of trust. Trust has also been studied in other VC studies d ext e ns i v e l y i n ot h e r v i rt u a l s e t t i ng s   e.g. virtual teams [28, 29, 49  Other streams of research do not view a sense of community as critical to virtual communities. They view VCs \(which they call virtual publics\more of a discourse medium Eri c k s on 21] con s i d ers the notion of community as a background mechanism that supports discourse among the members; i.e. it is a means to an end. This, they believe, brings the focus to the medium and the discourse. To them, it is the discourse rather than the sense of community that facilitates the activities of the VC. For example discourse enables the newcomers to go through the conversations in the form of posts/threads and get a better understanding of the community, which is an advantage over the real life conversations. In identifying factors that influence membership, Jones and Raf t u d y t h e poten tial popu lation of people interested in a specific discourse, awareness of that population of the existence of a virtual public that fosters the discourse, availability of the technology to support the group, technical proficiency of the interested population, and maximum capacity or the limit beyond which information overload occurs Some researchers use social network analysis to study VCs. This approach investigates how information flows among people and organizations through direct and indirect ties T h e f o cu s  here is on the relationships rather than on the individuals or the community as a whole. According to this approach, weak ties can be more useful than strong ties in tightly knitted networks because it provides more diversity and thus access to more types of expertis  As can be seen, the major part of literature has been dedicated to identifying factors that influence member participation. Hence, irrespective of the approach adopted, the level of participation the community supports defines the life of that community h en th er e is n o participation  a  community can be surmised to be dead  We adopt a holistic perspective that draws on each of the three approaches i.e., the community, the discourse, and the network, thereby, adopting a broad definition of virtual commun icall y   we delve into socially shaped aspects, technologically facilitated features, individually demonstrated characteristics, and the external influences as elements that emerged from our literature review. We next present literature on each of these elements in detail  2.2. Socially Shaped Aspects  While some believe that a narrow scope would be detrimental to the community oth e rs  have found that narrow scope is required to keep the community focuse e f o r m er ca s e t h e researchers argue that narrowness of scope would limit the sense of community and it might even lead to weakening of RL communities. Others argue that when the community is overloaded with messages segmentation and narrowing the scope of the topics could actually help. Otherwise, members either drop out or change their communication behavior [13, 30  o r ex am ple, th e y  m i gh t lo w e r t h eir res pon s e  rates. The reason for this is that they find the information to be redundant Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


Another reason for not using the community as a source might be the nature of problems. Some problems are perceived to be difficult to convey in a virtual setting \(e.g. process-oriented problems\. In addition, receiving a large number of irrelevant answers when one needs a quick and accurate answer might prohibit a member to turn to the virtual community for answer. Sometimes in the case of overload, the signal to noise \(useful to undesirable information\ ratio decreases [42  In so m e st u d ies  moderation and control \(mere illusion of them, in some cases\howed to be influential in reducing the nois  In some cases, it has been seen that members defend the boundaries of the community together For example members, as a group, respond to outsiders inflammatory messages [58  Jo n e s an d  Rafael u e th a t an e xpan d ed virtual public  in the form of a mega virtual public cannot be sustained. Therefore, interrelated, smaller, and more focused virtual publics are created through segmentation strategy This helps with the problem of information overload as well Some other factors such as culture of community or organization\, and nature of the community \(e.g engineering\ also encourage participation [2, 27, 62  When people sharing the same practice  d interests belong to a certain social group, others in the same practice are drawn towards that group, thus increasing the size of the community. For example, if a large group of Indian software engineers have profiles on Linkedin, others who hear about it are motivated to join in While some researchers believe that an increase in size of a community leads to increase in participation  oth e rs do n o t s ee it as a critical f a ctor. T h e latter group goes even further to argue that increase in size could be detrimental because it might lead to information overload [30, 31 T h e y ackn o w l edg e  though that even in sustained groups, there are usually periods of silence res earc h ers have found that a small percentage of the members make most of the contribution and many others free ride  Mos t res earchers ag ree t h at a v i rtu a l community needs to reach a critical mass \(with a common understanding from beginning\ before it can generate heterogeneity of resources needed, which could lead to reasonable amount of participation [30 31, 42, 43, 51   In summary, socially shaped aspects encompass the scope of the content, the norms and culture embodied in the practices of the community techniques of moderation, and the size and critical mass of the membership of the community  2.3. Technologically Facilitated Features  When it comes to designing VCs, in order to aim for success, some recommend minimal design in the beginning, followed by experimentation, evaluation and refinement of new features. This way, they argue the community technical features that support a virtual community will be built to suit the needs and the interest of its members as they emerge This is called co-evolutionary design or design from inside  w h ic h is n o t m e c h an i s tic [34]. B a rab et   des i gn i n g t h e V C  un der th eir i n v e s t i g atio n   mainly focus on complex dualities or tensions \(e.g local needs of members vs. goals of organization\ [6 19, 20, 66 T h ey reco m m en d th at a com m unit y  should decide on a design by balancing such dualities However, in arriving at a minimal design, we need to consider what technologies best support the objectives of that community doin g s o  n e w technologies that emerge and that support social systems, need to be incorporated in the shell of virtual community. The Web 2.0 technologies support constructivist approach es of participation and knowledge generation, and hence are suitable platforms for virtual communities. Technologies such as weblogs, wikis, peer-to-peer systems, virtual worlds, tagging, and syndication, allow for better support of community participation  In summary, the nature of the technologies that support the communities could influence the life of the virtual communities  2.4. Individually Demonstrated Characteristics  A number of researchers have considered the contributions of a virtual public as public good that is in accord with gift transactions In a g i f t  transaction, the receiver is implicitly obliged to return the favor at some point. Therefore, the contributions continue on a virtual public  e oth e r  researchers, on the other hand, take a utilitarian position and argue that motivation for contribution is self-interest, e.g. gaining reputation [4, 18, 62   However, some of these researchers do not see this in conflict with caring for welfare of others o r example, Wasko and Faraj n o w l edg e d t h at  both tangible and intangible benefits to individuals as well as contribution to the knowledge of the community as a whole can be motivating factors for participation of individuals. Tangible returns included getting access to useful information expertise and best practices, receiving answers to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


their questions, availability and accessibility usefulness for problem-solving, a good source for managing knowledge from different sources, helping new employees integrate to the system faster bringing geographically dispersed people together timeliness of information, integrated features \(email websites, etc.\d using other members as filters or guides. Self-actualization through feeling confident having a chance to show off, and strengthening skills was mentioned as a main intangible return In their study of electronic networks of practice Wasko and Faraj [6  fo und t h a t  m e mb e r s w i t h hi gh  level of centrality in the network, perceived enhanced reputation, and strong sense of commitment contribute more helpful responses to the network. In addition, individuals with perceived enhanced reputation, high level of network centrality, having longer tenure in the shared practice, and being guided by the norms of the group contribute greater number  of messages to the group Besides motivating factors researchers have identified some barriers to participation in virtual communities. Wasko and Faraj [6 o u n d th at ev e n  when they give highest priority to the well being of organization and their community, employees still hesitate to share if they have fear of being criticized and ridiculed, or misleading other members with their answers. This was shown to be more common among new members \(employees\Another set of barriers identified is lack of time, and requirement for security and confidentiality th e cas e of  f ear  of breaching the confidentiality, the employees used other means \(e.g. telephone or individual emails share their knowledge, or they simply self-censored In summary, individually demonstrated characteristics include the concepts of public good utilitarian perspective \(which incorporates selfinterest, reputation, self-actualization, and intangible and tangible returns\etwork centrality, fear of criticism and ridicule, fear of misleading others, lack of time, security and confidentiality  2.5. External Influences  The age at which individuals are exposed to technologies such as the Internet and social networking keeps decreasing. Disney s Toontown Whyville, Barbie Girls and Club Penguin are only some examples of the many virtual communities that are available for pre-teens. By the time they are in high school, most individuals in the US are very comfortable with navigating the web using rich interfaces to communicate and conduct business As this generation gets assimilated into the future workforce, technologies for communication will reflect their needs. We see an increasing use of wikis and forum-oriented platforms in the workplace today The use of these technologies is fuelled by the effect of external media that the milleneals or the generation that has grown up in the 80s, is exposed to  s  s t ories on tele v i s i on radio, an d n e w s  articles available online, discuss virtual communities as a commonplace phenomenon Pres s cov e rag e  of weblogs, wikis, and social networking sites like Facebook or MySpace popularize these technologies  creas ing i n div i d u als curiosity and motivating them to participate. Some news companies choose to have a presence inside virtual communities, thus further drawing members to the community  For example, the recent media coverage of the virtual world, Second Life, popularizes the use of the technology for business n d edu c ation 1 Other external influences such as political environment in the case of non-organizational virtual communities \(for example internet censorship\d support by top management in organizational settings  o af f ect th e li f e of a v i rtu al co m m unit y   In summary, various external influences such as demographics, external media, political environments, and top management support can influence the popularity of and thus the life of virtual communities  3. The Life of Virtual Communities  The review of literature presented gives us an overall picture of the aspects that influence the life of virtual communities. We define life as active participation d fu rth e r g e n e ration o f  community-specific content by its members. This is in line with the adaptive structuration view of technology where the change process within a technology emerges in human action as people interact with the technology In th e f i gu re belo w  we present a conceptual model that depicts the elements related to the life of a virtual community. It is important to note that a research agenda based on our conceptual model would need to take into account the complexities of each element. For example, when studying socially shaped aspects psychological, social-psychological as well as sociological factors need to be investigated However, a life cycle model is useful when framing a research agenda since it provides a metaph or  a naive m o r com p lex s o cial ph e n o m e n a   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


   Figure 1: Conceptual model of virtual community life cycle  As shown in the life cycle model, the life of a virtual community is influenced by four elements  namely socially shaped aspects, individually demonstrated characteristics, technologically facilitated features, and the external media. However this is a dynamic cycle. While prior literature emphasizes the impact of various factors on participation in a predominantly positivist approach we argue that the existence of the virtual community in turn influences the various elements that affect it  thus begging a process oriented, emergent approach Hence, as the life of a virtual community changes there are changes in socially shaped aspects such as the size of the community, its critical mass, scope and culture. As the life of a virtual community changes individually demonstrated characteristics such as tangible and intangible returns and utility may change. For example, a community with high participation could be more valuable and helpful to a member than a community with low participation. As the life of a virtual community changes, technologies may evolve to support the changing needs of the members. For example Facebook allows third-party lightweight applications to be plugged in to members profiles if desired. Finally, as the life of a virtual community changes, external factors such as the interest of media in the virtual community may change This model has implications for research in virtual communities. While there is little attention paid to dead communities, i.e. communities that have low active participation, the conceptual model proposes that such communities have the potential to be revived based on the four elements. We next discuss specific implications and avenues for future research  4. Discussion and Future Research  In this paper, we focus on an important but underresearched topic the life cycle of virtual communities. We draw on the plethora of existing literature on virtual communities that adopt different approaches to studying factors affecting membership and participation. In arriving at a holistic conceptual model, we suggest that the phenomenon be looked at from an emergent, constructivist perspective, rather than a positivist one. We identify the elements Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


associated with the life cycle of a virtual community The conceptual model has implications for research and practice in virtual communities The conceptual model can be used as a sensitizing lens for specific virtual communities and make sense of their nature. Future research can delve into each element and shed light to specific characteristics, or trace their evolution over time. A longitudinal study of a virtual community would help in further understanding the dynamics of the life cycle model  C o m p arin g  v i rt u al co m m u n i t i es t h at are alive  with those that are dead and conducting a crosscase analysis would help contrast the elements in both contexts. The conceptual model can be enhanced by future research that adds more elements or further refines each. One of the limitations of this study is that we have not identified specific stages within the life cycle of a virtual community Empirically investigating various types of virtual communities or different contexts in which virtual communities may exist would help identify specific stages within the life of those virtual communities  o r ex a m ple, [33] d e lv es i n to dis e ng a g e m e n t \(i.e the stage when members leave\rom a virtual community. Our study is intended to be a starting point for a discussion of the phenomenon of the life cycle of virtual communities  5. References  1 A ppe l, J  Second Life' develops education following  eSchool News 2006 http://www.eschoolnews.com/news/topnews/index.cfm?i=42030&CFID=6117537&CFTOKEN=1 8925008  2 A r dic h v ili, A  Motivation and barriers to participation in virtual knowledge-sharing communities of practice  Journal of Knowledge Management 2003, 7\(1\ 64-77  3 A rro w  H., McG r ath J. E J. L  Berd ah l Small groups as complex systems: Formation, coordination development, and adaptation Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, Inc., 2000  4 Ba la s ubra m a n ia n, S    Ma h a ja n V  The Economic Leverage of the Virtual Community  International Journal of Electronic Commerce 2001, 5\(3\pp. 103-138  5 Ba ra b, S. A Squire K a n d D u e b e r B Supporting authenticity through participatory learning  Educational Technology Research and Developmen 2000, 48, pp. 2:37 62  6 Ba ra b, S. A Ma K i ns te r J  G  Sc he c k le r, R Designing System Dualities: Characterizing a WebSupported Professional Development Community  The Information Society 2000, 19, pp. 237-256  7 Be ne dik t M Cyberspace: First Steps Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 1991  8 Be rk ow itz S. D  An introduction to structural analysis The network approach to social research Toronto Butterworth, 1982   Bi rd   E    The audience in everyday life: living in a media world London: Routeledge, 2003  1 Bl an ch ard A   L   M a rku s M  L    The Experienced Sense of a Virtual Community: Characteristics and Processes  Database for Advances in Information Systems  2004, 35\(1\, pp. 65-79  11 B r ow n, L   1994  The seven deadly sins of the information age  Intermedia 22\(3  1 Br u c kman  A   C Jen s en   The mystery of the death of MediaMOO: Seven years of evolution of an online community In K. A. Renninger & W. Shumar \(Eds Building virtual communities: Learning and change in cyberspace pp. 21-33\ew York: Cambridge University Press, 2002  13 B u tle r, B  The dynamics of electronic communities  Unpublished PhD dissertation, Graduate School of Industrial Administration, Carnegie Mellon University 1999. Working papers available at http://bbutler.business.pitt.edu  1 Bu t l er B S    Membership Size, Communication Activity, and Sustainability: A Resource-Based Model of Online Social Structures  Information Systems Research  Dec. 2001, 12\(4\. 346 362  15 C h a m be rla i n, J    Provision of collective goods as a function of group size  Political Science Review 1974, 68 pp. 707 713  16 De de C.J Multi-User Virtual Environments New Horizons, May/June 2004  17 De Sa nc tis G   M.S Poo l e   Capturing the Complexities in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory  Organization Science 1994 5\(2\:121-147  1 Don a t h  J S    Identity and deception in the virtual community In M. A. Smith and P. Kollock \(eds Communities in cyberspace London: Routledge, 1999,  pp 29-59  19 E n g e str¨o m  Y Learning by expanding Helsinki Orientakonsultit, 1987  2  E n gest r¨o m  Y  A c t i v i t y t h eo ry an d i n d i vi du al and social transformation. In Perspectives on activity theory  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


eds. Y. Engestr¨om, R. Miettinen, & R. Punamaki, pp. 19 38. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 1999  21 Eric k s on, T  Social interaction on the Net: virtual community as participatory genre In Proceedings of the Hawaii International Conference on Systems Science  January 1997, Vol VI, pp. 13-21  22 G a rton, L H a y t hornthw a ite C., a n d W e ll m a n, B  Studying online social networks, In Doing Internet research ed. S. Jones, 75 105. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage 1999  23 G o e l L a nd Mous a v idin E A Proposed Framework for Sustainable Communities of Practice for Knowledge Management Systems  International Journal of Knowledge Management 2008, 4\(3  2 G r a y  J  T h e S a d S i d e o f C y b e rsp ace  Cuardian April 10,1995  25 H a y t hornthw a ite C., K a z m e r M. M., Robi ns J  S Shoemaker Community Development Among Distance Learners: Temporal and Technological Dimensions  Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 2000 6\(1  2 Healy  D C y b e rsp a c e an d p l ace: T h e In tern et as  middle landscape on the electronic frontier. In D, Porter ed Internet Culture New York: Routledge, 1997, pp. 5568  27 W Ste a d  L R o se nste in M Fur n a s G    Recommending and evaluating choices in a virtual community of use  Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems Denver, Colorado United States, 1995, May 07-11, pp 194 201  28 J a rv e npa a  S  L K n oll   K  L e idne r D   E Is anybody out there? Antecedents of trust in global virtual teams  Journal of Management Information Systems  1998, 14\(4\, pp. 29-64  29 J a rv e npa a  S. L  L e idne r D  E Communication and Trust in Global Virtual Teams  Organization Science  Nov-Dec 1999, 10\(6\. pp. 791-815  30 Jo ne s, Q Ra f a e li, S Time to Split, Virtually Discourse Architecture' and Community Building' Create Vibrant Virtual Publics  Electronic Markets 2000, 10\(4 pp. 214-223  31 J o ne s  Q Ra v i d, G  Ra fa e li, S Information Overload and the Message Dynamics of Online Interaction Spaces: A Theoretical Model and Empirical Exploration  Information Systems Research 2004, 15\(2\, pp. 194-210  32 J u ng la s  I.A J ohns on N  A Ste e l D  J  A b ra ham   D.C., and Louglin, P.M Identity Formation, Learning Styles and Trust in Virtual Worlds  The DATABASE for Advances in Information Systems 2007, 38\(4\, pp.90-96  33 K a z m e r M. M Beyond C U L8R: Disengaging from online social worlds  New Media and Society 2007, 9\(1 pp. 111-138  34 K i m  A  J    Community building: Secret strategies for successful online communities on the web Berkeley, CA Peachpit Press, 2000   35 K o lloc k  P   The economies of online cooperation  In M. Smith and P. Kollock \(eds\ondon: Routledge 1999, pp. 220 239  3 Lakat o s  I    The methodology of scientific research programmes Philosophical papers, Vol. 1, \(ed.\. Worrall G. Currie, Cambridge: Ca mbridge University Press 1978  37 L a m p e  C., Ellison N C. Ste i nf ie ld \(2 00 6 A face\(book\ the crowd: social Searching vs. social browsing  Proceedings of the 20th conference on CSCW  pp. 167-170  38 L a tan e, B et al 1979 Many hands make light work The causes and consequences of social loafing  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 37\(6\, pp. 822 832  39 L e im e i s t e r J  M., Ebne r W  K r cm a r H  2005  Design, Implementation, and Evaluation of TrustSupporting Components in Virtual Communities for Patients. Journal of Management Information Systems 21\(4\ Spring. pp. 101-135  40 L u k e T  Co mm u n ity an d eco lo g y In S. W a lk er \(ed    Changing Community: The Gray wolf Annual, Ten St Paul, MN: Graywolf Press, 1993, pp. 207-221  41 Ly nc h, C  G   2007  Why CIOs Should Be On Facebook  CIO http://www.cio.com/article/160350  42 Ma lh otra A G o s a in, S., a nd A  H a r s  Evolution of a Virtual Community: Understanding Design Issues Through a Longitudinal Study In Proc. Of the 18th Int Conference on Information Systems \(ICIS AIS, 1997  43 Ma rk us M. L  1987 Towards a critical mass  theory of interactive media: Universal access interdependence and diffusion  Comm. Res 14, pp. 491 511  44  Mc Cle lla n, J Ne tsurf e r s   New York Observer February 13, 1994  45 Mc G r a t h, J  E Time, interaction, and performance TIP\ theory of groups  Small Group Research 1991 22\(2\, pp. 147-174  46  Mc L a ug hlin M.L  Osbom e  K.K.; a n d Sm ith, C B  Standards of conduct on Usenet. In S.G. Jones \(ed Cybersociety: Computer Mediated Communication and Community London: Sage, 1995, pp. 90-11 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 4 nn ecke B and  P r e ece J 2 00 0   Lurker demographics: Counting the silent  Proceedings of the CHI 2000 The Hague, The Netherlands: ACM Press  48 O Rand M. & M.L. Krecker Concepts of the life cycle: Their history, meanings, and uses in the social sciences  Annual Reviews 1990, 16, pp. 241-262  4  P i cco l i  G   Ives B   Trust and the unintended effects of behavior control in virtual teams  MIS Quarterly Sept 2003, 27\(3\, pp. 365-395  5  P o w e l l  A   P i cco l i  G  Ives B   Virtual teams: a review of current literature and directions for future research  Database for Advances in Information Systems  Winter 2004, 35\(1\ pp. 6-36  5 Raf ael i  S  an d L a Ro se  R J   Electronic bulletin boards and public goods explanations of collaborative mass media  Communication Research 1993, 20\(2\p 277 297  52 Re i d E  V i rt ua l w o rlds: c u lture a nd im a g ina tion In  S.G. Jones \(ed Cybersociety: Computer Mediated Communication and Community London: Sage, 1995, pp 164-183  53 R h e i ng ol d, H   The Virtual Community: Homesteading on the Eleetrofiic Frontier Reading, MA: AddisonWesley, 1993   5 bin s  K Cy b e rsp ace an d  th e w o rld w e live in  In J  Dovey \(ed Fracta Dreams: New Media in Social Context London: Lawrence & Wishart, 1996, pp. 1-30   5 S a r d ar Z  A l t  ci vi l i zat i o n s  f aq  C y b e rsp ace a s t h e darker side of the West Futures 1995, 27, pp. 777-794  56 Sc hw a r tz E Talent management meets Facebook  Infoworld 2008 http://www.infoworld.com/article/08/01/14/Successfactors_1.html  57 Silv a  L Mo us a v idin, E a n d G o e l L  Weblogging Implementing Communities of Practice In Social Inclusion: Societal and Organizational Implications for Information Systems E. Trauth, D. Howcroft, T. Butler, B Fitzgerald and J. DeGross \(eds.\er, Boston, 2006 pp. 295-316  58  Silv a  L G o e l L a nd Mo u s a v idin, E  Exploring the Dynamics of Blog Communities: The Case of MetaFilter  Information Systems Journal \(ISJ 2008, 4\(3  59  Sto n e  A  R. W ill the re a l bo dy ple a s e sta nd up  Boundary stories about cyberspace. In M. Benedikt \(ed Cyberspace: First Steps Cambridge, MA: MIT Press 1991, pp. 81-118  60 T e rdim a n D  Reuters  Second Life reporter talks shop  CNET News 2006 http://news.cnet.com/Reuters-Second-Life-reporter-talksshop/2008-1043_3-6129335.html  6 Ti ff a n y  L   Starting a Second Life Business  Entrepreneur 2007 http://www.entrepreneur.com/startingabusiness/businesside as/article172768.html  62 W a s k o, M. a nd Fa ra j, S It is what one does: why people participate and help others in electronic communities of practice  The Journal of Strategic Information Systems 2000, 9\(2-3\, pp. 55-173  63 W a s k o, M. a nd Fa ra j, S Why Should I Share Examining Social Capital and Knowledge Contribution in Electronic Networks of Practice  MIS Quarterly March 2005, 29\(1\, pp. 35-57  64 W e is e  E.R., A thous a nd a unts w ith m odem s In L   Cherney and E.R. Weise \(eds Wired Women: Gender and New Realities in Cyberspace Seattle: Seal Press, 1996, pp vii-xv  65 W e llm a n B., Struc t ura l a n a l y s is Fro m  m e thod a n d  metaphor to theory and substance, In B. Wellman & S. D Eds Social structures: A network approach pp. 19-61 Cambridge; UK: Cambridge University Press, 1988  66 W e ng e r E Communities of practice: Learning meaning, and identity Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


clarification concerning the best practices within this topic seems necessary, as mishandling of secondary storage media is likely to result in lost or inadmissible data In addition to the two topics discussed above, it is also interesting to note that of the ten tasks identified as having the highest level of conflict between the panels, scores indicating high conflict within one panel occurred in six of them. Additionally, three tasks were identified as having high conflict within the panel of technical experts and within the panel of legal experts. Of those three tasks, tasks 22 and 56 were discussed above; however, task 64, regarding filtering data based on attorney-client privilege prior to imaging, does not fit into the two topics discussed above. For task 64, one member of the technical panel indicated that it is absolutely essential, one member of the legal panel indicated that the task is desired, three members of the technical panel and two members of the legal panel indicated that it is undesired, and one member of the technical panel and two members of the legal panel indicated that is absolutely prohibited. This high value of conflict within both panels illustrates confusion in an area concerning e-discovery matters, and this is an area that is thought will experience high growth rates within the next several years. Computer forensics examiners will be well-served by additional clarification concerning best practices in e-discovery matters too  4. Conclusions  Our analysis of the data resulted in several interesting findings involving agreement and conflict among experts of computer forensics. Although the observations are interesting, our findings are bound by several limitations, and we see the need for more work to be done on this topic. We will summarize our observations, discuss limitations of our study, and present a call for additional research below  4.1. Summary of observations  It is interesting to note the differences in the levels of agreement observed from the various experts that participated in this study. While it is relatively easy to understand that some of the differences are due to the different perspectives from which the legal experts and the technical experts were asked to evaluate the tasks, there were many differences among each group, as well as differences between the groups. Also, from the complete set of 103 tasks evaluated, only 26 tasks achieved a level of high agreement among all of the experts, representing only 25% of the tasks Tasks where general agreement occurred within each group of experts, yet conflicting ratings occurred between the groups were observed however, this condition accounted for just under 10 of the total tasks evaluated. For example, only 10 tasks from the set of 103 tasks represent conditions where agreement occurred among the members of each panel, and the two panels reached conflicting results.  Although the differences in ratings between panels can be explained through the specific conditions from which each panel evaluates tasks differences between members within a panel of experts is more difficult to rationalize, and it occurred more frequently than did the instances where agreement occurred within panels yet conflict occurred between panels. In 16.5% of the tasks evaluated, members of the panel of legal experts reached conflicting ratings whereby at least one member felt very strongly that the task should be performed while at least one other member of the panel strongly felt that the task should not be performed. Even more conflicting was the level of disagreement among the members of the panel of technical experts, as they reached conflicting ratings in 17.5% of the tasks The level of conflict identified in this study cannot be attributed to one panel member providing outlying responses, as only one task among the subset of tasks that highly aligned \(i.e., those shown in Table 3. Top rated tasks\ was included in the subset of tasks with largest conflicts \(i.e., Table 4. Largest technical and legal conflicts\This task, task 10 concerned testing forensic software tools Overall, the large extent of conflict among forensic computer experts raises concern regarding reaching predictable outcomes when used in legal matters.  Forensic science is based upon using a measureable, scientific process to reach an unbiased conclusion, yet as this study illustrates, different forensic computer experts frequently do not reach the same conclusion concerning the importance to forensic task performance  4.2. Limitations  Although we attempted to be thorough in our analysis, it is important to note that numerous limitations exist, especially concerning the data collected. This study limited its survey population to the HTCIA; therefore, bias from the study population may impact th  How e v e r, it is  thought that opinions of experts within an organization, such as the HTCIA, are more likely to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


align than would opinions from a more diverse group of experts, thus measures of conflict are thought to be conservative in this report Also, concerning respondent bias, this study generated its output from a limited number of responses.  Non-respondents expressed reasons for not participating that included distrust, being too busy, vacation, and difficulty authenticating themselves on the survey s Website.  Invalid e-mail addresses and spam blocking filters also contributed to the reduction of responses [8  The set of 103 tasks presented within this report are not implied to represent a comprehensive set of tasks forensic examiners perform pertaining to the forensic data acquisition of personal computer workstations.  This set of tasks is limited to those that were identified by respondents of this study.  No conditional logic regarding the performance of tasks is suggested nor is the sequence of the performance of tasks  4.3. Call for additional research  Given the importance of expert testimony in legal proceedings and the level of conflict among forensic computer experts revealed within this study, more study is needed to develop a better understanding of the causes of conflict and solutions to reduce conflict For example, future studies may identify beneficial solutions from licensing organizations, industry standards, mandatory training, or legislation regarding the credentials of forensic computer examiners. Clearly, the inconsistency among forensic computer examiners opinions identified within this study illustrates a weakness within our legal system that has the potential to alter trail outcomes, thus allowing the guilty to be acquitted and the not-guilty to be wrongly convicted  5. References  1 V o lo ni no, L A n z a l dua R., a nd G odw in, J Co m pute r  Forensics Principles and Practices, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, 2007  2 N e ls on B Phil lips  A Enf i ng e r F., a n d S t e w a r t, C Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, 3 rd Ed Thomson, Boston, 2008  3 Ke rr, O.S Digital Evidence and the New Criminal Procedure Columbia Law Review, 105\(1\005, p.279318  4 K n a pp, K  L Me e ting the D a ube rt Cha lle ng e  A Mode l  to Test the Relevance and Reliability of Expert Testimony ProQuest, Ann Arbor, Michigan, UMI 3098259, 2003  5 Na tiona l Instit ute of Justic e  Fore nsic Ex a m ina tion of  Digital Evidence: A Guide for Law Enforcement, \(NCJ 199408\.S. Government Printing Office, Washington DC, 2004  6 Ca rlton  G  H., A P r otoc ol f o r the Fore nsic Da ta  Acquisition of Personal Computer Workstations, ProQuest Ann Arbor, Michigan, UMI 3251043, 2007  7 G l a s e r B G a nd S t ra us s  A  L T h e D i s c ov e r y o f  Grounded Theory: Strategies for Qualitative Research Aldine Publishing Co., New York, 1967  8 Ca rlton  G  H., Fore nsic Da ta  A c quisition T a sk Performance Guide The Identification and Measurement of a Protocol for the Forensic Data Acquisition of Personal Computer Workstations, http://www.htcia.org, 2006  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Scenario 7 Figure 3 Plots for the frame size distributions for the various scenarios along with the as the SCaN simulator based was available 11 I Frames P Frames B Frames T  I-1 a-2--a 0 0 0 0 0 m on Qualnet 4 TELEMETRY TRAFFIC MODEL Telemetry transmissions from the spacecraft to the command center generally take as follows First some are aperiodic These traffic may represent various instrumentation measurements sensory outputs file downloads etc On the right side of the picture was not partitioned into sub-channels but rather data was transmitted only when it we come to the following conclusions about the packet size distribution for this type of encoding scheme  In the we present we determine the statistical distribution of the type of video which we are interested in transmitting As we note from the above picture the telemetry transmission wastes one can use the traffic synthesizing tool to generate random traffic whose frame statistical distribution approximates the distribution of the traffic which a lot of bandwidth when a lot or blue sky the size of the I frames is relatively small see scenarios 1 4  In the are much smaller than those of I frames see scenarios 1,2,5,6,7  If the main object in the picture is moving quite are multiplexed together Some of these traffics are constant bit rate are described by on the above data a large evenly painted surface a file in a large amount of bandwidth The type of traffic that generally is being transmitted via a telemetry channel is formed by multiple types of traffic which so that each telemetry data has its a particular sub-channel For this reason cases the telemetry transmission will look something like in Figure 5 Contrary to Figure 4 right side in Figure 5 the channel own designated sub-channel see Figure 4 For example in the left side of Figure 4 can be used by network simulation tools such we are interested in analyzing This synthesized traffic generated by we designate each telemetry type to we have seen one can model the frame sizes of the different type of frames by gamma approximations Based or there is very little detail in the pictures i.e the pictures are of even if the picture has many objects with rich detail the sizes of P and B frames even if the background is rather stationary the distribution of the frame sizes is much thicker i.e having higher variance see scenarios 3,4,7 Video synthesis In this section a video synthesizer for MPEG v4 encoded video which has been developed in order to generate sample traffic for live video transmissions The synthesizing of the video traffic is done a gamma distribution Using the tools developed above on preexisting traffic of the type we are interested to transmit one can find the parameters of the gamma distribution which best fit this type of traffic Given the parameters determined by those tools our tool is outputted to a format which some are periodic in nature while others may be event based non-periodic The classical approach to telemetry is to schedule the transmission we see multiple types of traffic some of which a constant bit rate some are periodic and we see the traffic being fit through a channel which has been partitioned into sub-channels Figure 4 Traffic allocated to dedicated channels As a more desirable approach would be to multiplex together all of the transmissions In such case in which the background for the video is dark case in which there is little movement in the background 


Figure 5 Statistically multiplexed traffic We note that in this case we would be able to utilize some of the free channel space for other types of transmissions which may be more delay tolerant see Figure 6 For example in this figure the bottom blue transmission can be thought to be a file which is packetized and needs to be transmitted down from the spacecraft We consider this file to be delay tolerant i.e the data is not needed right away down on the ground and it has a lower priority then the other traffics needed to be transmitted The delay tolerant packets will be transmitted only when the channel is not being fully utilized as to fill in the gaps available in the channel bandwidth This technique will delay the arrival of the delay tolerant traffic but will enable us to more fully utilize our channel bandwidth m T]T m Figure 6 Telemetry traffic along with delay tolerant traffic being sent via a channel We note in above scenario that although the delay tolerant traffic was transmitted at time 0 none of it was able to be transmitted until time 1 Also we note that the final delay tolerant traffic packet was transmitted 9 time instances later then it was received For this reason a buffering scheme must be devised such that all the delay tolerant traffic may be buffered until enough bandwidth for transmission exists Since no specific data was available on the dynamics of the various telemetry type traffics we developed a generic telemetry model which is formed by two types of traffic one constant bit rate which represents the sensory information which is constantly being transmitted down to the ground and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents file download and periodic data updates We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to telemetry constant bit rate  peak of intermittent transmission We will also assume that the intermittent transmission file transfer will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new files are ready to be transferred Using the above model we created a Matlab based tool for synthesizing traffic for simulation purposes The traffic generated by this tool is output to a file in a format which can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 5 COMMAND TRAFFIC MODEL The model for the command will be similar in spirit to the model which we have proposed for telemetry We see the data transmitted for command to be formed by two different types of transmission One constant bit rate which represents calls to various preloaded spacecraft subroutines and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents subroutine uploads to the spacecraft We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to command and we also assume that the intermittent transmission subroutine upload will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new subroutines are ready to be transferred Using this model we have developed a Matlab based traffic synthesizing tool The traffic provided by this tool can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 6 CONCLUSIONS This work has resulted in the development of a suite of traffic models that captures the fundamental types that will be in the space communications environment and in particular These models provide the capability to investigate the new IP-based communications functions and resulting performance that are required by the human exploration missions of NASA's Constellation Program and the Space Communications and Navigation SCaN network's ability to support them Four prototypical traffic models have been developed from which any number of streams may be generated 1 audio/voice 2 real-time motion imager live video 3 telemetry including both regular periodic data as well as intermittent file downloads and 4 command including periodic data as well as intermittent subroutine uploads The voice traffic model stochastically parameterizes calls talk times and talk spurts Multiple audio analysis tools were developed to assist in the derivation of parameters from data samples taken from relevant space missions Using these tools parameters of probability distributions were fit to data taken from Shuttle/ISS archives 12     n 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


