A Streaming Resource based Connection Algorithm in CloudDMSS for Streaming Task Distribution  Seungho han  Department of Internet and Multimedia Engineering  Konkuk University  Seoul, Korea  s hhan87@konkuk.ac.kr   Myoungjin Kim, Yun Cui and Hanku Lee  Department of Internet and Multimedia Engineering  Konkuk University  Seoul, Korea  tough105  i l ycy, hlee@konkuk.ac.kr  Corresponding author: Hank u Lee   Abstract 227  In previous studies, we proposed and developed a CloudDMSS \(Cloud based distributed multimedia streaming 
service\system. To provide reliable streaming  service  in the CloudDMSS, a distribution streaming system was established using streaming task distribution algorithms, RR \(Round Robin and LC \(Least Connection\ However, as the RR and LC methods did not consider the utilization or streaming transmission rate of the streaming servers, it negatively affected the load on the servers. Therefore, to improve the capability of our CloudDMSS this study proposes  a streaming task distribution method using an SRC\(Streaming Resource based Connection\lgorithm that consi ders the utilization of the streaming server   Keyword s 227  Cloud Computing, Load Distribution, Social Media 
Streaming  I   I NTRODUCTION  Because of the recent advent of high performance heterogeneous smart devices, such as smart phones, smart pads and smart TVs, and the spread of SNS \(Social Network Service\, such as Facebook and Twitter, social media in various forms is being produced and  shared in wired, wireless, and various other environments 1,2 Because of the different resolutions, supported video extensions, codecs, and streaming protocols of smart devices, it is necessary to transcode in the appropriate media format to provide me dia streaming to the smart devices. However, multi media transcoding requires 
extensive resources \(CPU, RAM, and storage\. To address this problem, a transcoding method for distributed environments is being researched 3  However, because most resolution methods for distributed environments require additional  cluster machines,  emphasis is placed on securing the necessary computing resources. In addition, existing transcoding methods present a problem of reducing the corresponding speed owing to the absenc e of an automated recovery policy, which may result in loss of information, or system halts. For this reason previous studies recommended the MapReduce Framework using the HDVTS \(Hadoop based Distributed Transcoding System\ as a way to transcode the large  
number of bulk media files produced in heterogeneous smart devices using SNS 3,4,5 In the HDVTS, as suggested in this study, a large number of bulk media files are transcoded by rapidly executing a parallel distributed process 3,4,5 To provide an ef fective and reliable streaming service, the HDVTS establishes the media streaming environment using a distributed environment Presently, many researchers are determining how to distribute the streaming server task at the time the streaming demand task occ urs in a distributed system environment 6,7,8,9,1 The most representative method of task distribution, RR \(Round Robin\, is a basic algorithm that distributes the tasks in fixed order in a composed system. In an internet environment, the 
LC \(Least Conn ection\ algorithm distributes tasks to the server with the lowest number of users  To increase the efficiency of task distribution through existing algorithms different algorithms \(Round Robin, Least Connection Weighted Round Robin, and Dynamic Weig hted Round Robin are being studied 6 Our existing system uses RR and LC as a method to distribute tasks according to the streaming requests of the users. Because RR and LC, employed in the implementation of the HDVTS, are not task distribution algorithms for dispersion streaming, they do no t consider system usage or streaming transmission rates. Because they do not consider the load on the servers, it is difficult to achieve effective streaming. Therefore, this study suggests a 
distribution streaming method that uses an SRC \(Streaming Resour ce based Connection\ algorithm to distribute tasks to the streaming server. For performance evaluation, this study suggests and implements a prototype of the SRC algorithm based distribution streaming system in a Cloud environment Performance evaluation i s achieved by comparing the streaming transmission rate of the existing RR and LC methods with that of the task distribution module of the prototype  Components of this study are as follows. In Section 2 related studies on task distribution methods used in a dispersion environment are discussed and the implementation of the prototype suggested in this study is evaluated. In Section 3 background knowledge on the HDVTS, previously introduced 
in this paper, is reviewed. The proposed SRC algorithm is describ ed in Section 4. In Section 5, the implementation of a prototype of the distribution streaming system using the SRC algorithm is  presented . In Section 6, the streaming transmission rate of the existing RR and LC methods and that of the prototype\222s task d istribution module, which uses the proposed SRC algorithm based task distribution method are verified and the throughput of the prototype\222s task distribution module is determined. Finally, in Section 7, conclusions and future research plans are presented   111 


II  R ELATED W ORK  With the recent advent of heterogeneous smart devices and the spread of SNS \(Social Network Service\, technologies that provide effective and reliable streaming services are becoming very important. The demands for sharing social media regar dless of time and place, are increasing. This section discusses related studies on streaming task distribution methods that applied the SRC \(Streaming Resource based Connection algorithm suggested in this study. The implementation of the prototype is also  presented  A  Load distribution Methods  Distribution methods are used in many domains such as web servers, file servers, and video streaming servers. Because load distribution is important when building a distribution server, significant research has been u ndertaken on the study of load distribution methods. The representative methods of server load distribution include RR \(Round Robin\ and LC Least Connection 10 The RR method distributes tasks in a fixed order according to the task requests of the user s. The LC method distributes the tasks to the server with the least number of users according to the task request. In addition, many researchers have studied other distribution algorithms, such as WRR \(Weighted Round Robin\ and DWRR \(Dynamic Weighted Round  Robin  However, because most methods of task distribution target web servers and are generic, they are not very effective when applied to a distribution streaming server. This study suggests a task distribution method using an SRC \(Streaming Resource based Connection\ algorithm Because the SRC algorithm considers the server system and streaming transmission rate to distribute the streaming task, it can overcome the limitations of existing task distribution methods  B  Redirection mechanism for HTTP req uests  Owing to the rapid traffic increase on internet servers Antoine Mourad and Huiqun Liu suggested a redirection based hierarchical web server architecture, for load dispersion, that applied a redirection mechanism to HTTP requests    Fig. 1  shows t he redirection based hierarchical web server architecture. The proposed system is based on a two level architecture of multiple distribution servers using redirection servers. The redirection servers distribute tasks to each distribution server depending o n the type of user content using the HTTP protocol Fig. 2  shows the redirection mechanism for an HTTP request applied to the redirection server. The redirection mechanism is part of the HTTP protocol and is supported by browsers and web servers. The mecha nism procedure is as follows. Users access the base URL through a browser. Here, the base URL is mapped with IP through DNS and the browser is connected to the relevant server. The first server that the browser connects to is the redirection server The re direction server has a distributing mechanism that generates a redirection message to a relevant server depending on the content type of the base user URL. This study applies the SRC \(Streaming Resource based Connection\ algorithm and redirection mechanism  to the request to distribute the media streaming task. The architecture suggested by Antoine Mourad and Huiqun Liu had a structure that stored the request in the distribution server according to the content type. The proposed structure, however, required additional servers to store copies of the files being used to serve as a backup in the event of data loss or system interruptions. Further, the corresponding speed was reduced because of the absence of an automated recovery policy, and it did not ensure se rver reliability. Therefore, as a means to resolve this issue the proposed study implements content storage based on HDFS Hadoop Distributed File System    Figure 1  Hierarchical redirection based web server architecture   Figure 2  Redirection mechanism for HTTP request s  C  HDFS Ha do op  Distributed File System  HDFS is used to implement a prototype of a distribution streaming system using the SRC algorithm proposed in this study. HDFS is a distribution file system inside the Hadoop Eco System. It controls data in block units \(at least 64 MB 12 HDFS is comp osed of two principal functions NameNode controls the meta information blocks and DataNode stores the actual distributed information. Blocks in HDFS are distributed and stored in each machine according to a reproduction policy for reliable operation of a system Specially, in the event of a server stoppage or loss of data system security is maintained because the data is reproduced through existing copies. A block of HDFS basically creates three 64 MB blocks. The three blocks are managed by NameNode that controls the meta information. It is not 112 


necessary for users to manage copies because they are mapped into one file. Because HDFS prevents the loss of blocks through NameNode and secures reliability of the system by creating copies in different systems, at  the time of a system stoppage, it overcomes the limitations found in a typical redirection based hierarchical web server architecture  III  B ACKGROUND  With the dissemination of heterogeneous smart devices and the spread of SNS technologies, enormous volumes o f social media are being produced and shared. Because smart devices have different resolutions, extensions, video codecs, and streaming protocols, it is necessary to transcode  media appropriately to provide effective streaming to smart devices with differ ent specifications. Multimedia transcoding, however demands significant system resources. To address these issues research into transcoding methods for distribut ed  environment s  is being conducted. Most of these studies propose securing the necessary comp uting resources for transcoding by increasing the number of cluster machines  In addition, the transcoding methods in existing distribution environments have not successfully addressed securing system reliability. There is an absence of an automated re covery policy for details such as loss of data or system availability interruption. Therefore, we suggested the use of the HDVTS \(Hadoop based Distributed Transcoding System\ that implemented the MapReduce Framework 3,4,5   IV  SRC  S TREAMING R ESOURCE BASED C ONNECTION   TABLE I  T HE SRC  ALGORITHM   Algorithm 1   ss n  streaming server1, server2 .... server n   su n  the system usage rate of ss n   scu : the CPU usage rate of ss n   sru : the RAM usage rate of ss n   str : streaming transmission rate of ss n   request_ID : Id requesting media  streaming service   1   system available  2  request for media streaming    3    s s 1  to ss n   4   c alculate_system usage  5:             su=\(scu+sru\/2  6  8   calcuate_streaming transmission rate  9   str = current str n  226  past str n  10  11    12   distribute streaming task\(request_ID 13    the number of the smallest su ==1  1 4   distribute task request_ID,smallest su  1 5    1 6   distribute task\(request_Id,smallest str   17:        start_streaming_servcie\(request_ID  18    1 9  000\003 000H\000Q\000G\000\003\000L\000I   To provide the transcoded media service in the HDVTS, a distribution streaming environment is established. When building the distribution streaming environment, research issues that allocate tasks to the streaming server according to the streaming task req uest of users arise 6,7,8,9 The most representative methods of task distribution are the  RR \(Round Robin\ and LC \(Least Connection\ algorithms 6 The system uses RR and LC as a method to distribute the tasks according to the user streaming request s. However, because the task distribution algorithm that was implemented in the distribution streaming system of the HDVTS is not an exclusive algorithm for distribution streaming, it does not consider the system usage or streaming transmission rates. It d oes not conduct effective streaming because it does not reduce the load on the streaming server. To overcome this limitation, this study proposes the SRC algorithm. As an exclusive algorithm for distribution streaming, SRC concentrates on overcoming the li mitation of the existing algorithms because it distributes tasks considering both the usage of a system and the streaming transmission rate  Table 1  shows the SRC algorithm. The SRC algorithm distributes tasks by verifying the system usage and streaming t ransmission rate to overcome the limitations of existing task distribution algorithms. The sequence of the SRC algorithm is as follows. First, usage and streaming rates of each streaming server are calculated. Equation \(1\ calculates the usage rate of a st reaming server  2 Sru Scu Su  The usage rate of a streaming server n is defined as Su. Scu represents the current CPU usage rate and Sru  represents the current RAM usage rate. The system utility rate, Su, is calculated by dividing the current total utility rate of the CPU and RAM by 2. The equation to calculate the streaming transmission rate is defined by equation \(2   2  PastStr CurrentStr Str The streaming transmission rate is Str. The current streaming transmission rate is defined as CurrentStr. The streaming transmission rate of one second before is defined as PastStr The streaming transmission rate per unit time is calculated by subtracting PastStr from CurrentStr. The streaming task is distributed to the server with the lowest system usage rate. If several of the servers have a similar low usage rate, the task will be distributed to the server with the lowest transmission rate  V  P ROTOYPE OF A D ISTRIBUTION S TREAMING S YSTEM U SING THE SRC  A LGORITM IN THE C LOUD E NVIRONMENT  Fig. 3  shows the distribution streaming system architecture using the SRC algorithm in the Cloud En vironment. This system consists of the Streaming Task Management Module Streaming Server Module, and HDFS based Content Storage Module. The implementation environment and each module is explained in this section  113 


A  Implementation Environment  This system co nsists of one Streaming Task Management Module, three Streaming Server Modules, and an HDFS based Content Storage Module using 10 servers Table 2  shows the specifications of the cluster. The Streaming Task Management Module is composed of JSP in a Tomcat7  environment, the Streaming Server Module is Nginx 1.2.7 using the H.264 streaming module 2.27, implemented with JAVA for the system performance monitoring tool, using the mpstat command to query the CPU usage rate and free command to determine the RAM usa ge rate. /proc/net/dev is used to measure the streaming transmission rate. Finally, Hadoop 1.0.4 is used to establish the HDFS based Content Storage Module and fuse_dfs_0.1.0 is used to conduct the LINUX file system and Mount  TABLE II  C LUSTER S PECIFICATIONS   Classification  Content  CPU  Intel Xeon 4 Core 2.13 GHZ  Memory  16GB  HDD  1TB STATA 2  Network Card  100 Mbps Ethernet adapter  OS  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS    Figure 3  Distirubtion straming system architecutre using SRC Algorithm in the cloud environment  B  Streaming Task Management Module  The Streaming Task Management Module is the most important module of the prototype. It distributes the streaming server load and ensures efficiency by distributing tasks to the streaming server using the SRC algorithm. When users log on t o a PC or mobile, the web dashboard based list of contents is provided. When users select content, the streaming Task Management Module determines the usage and streaming transmission rates of each streaming server and selects the optimal device. The strea ming task is distributed and it provides the streaming service to the user using the redirection mechanism for the HTTP request method  C  Streaming Server Module  The Streaming Server Module is a streaming server with exclusively installed NginX that applies  the H.264 Streaming Module. NginX using an H.264 Streaming Module in a general web server is used instead of a specific protocol \(RTP, RTSP or RTMP\because it supports the HTTP based streaming service. This allows the streaming service to function in al l devices because the HTTP based streaming protocol is currently universally supported even though the streaming protocols differ depending on the type of smart device  D  HDFS based Content Storage Module  In the redirection based hierarchical web server arc hitecture proposed by Antoine Mourad and Huiqun Liu, the contents were stored on a specific distribution server depending upon the type of content. This architecture, however, has a shortcoming in that, for reliability, it must increase the number of serve rs as the requirement for additional data space increases In addition, because it does not have an automated recovery policy for a system service interruption, it is similarly less reliable. To implement the Content Server, our proposed system constructed  an HDFS based Content Storage Module Hadoop Distributed File System\. Because HDFS manages files by copying in block units, it ensures the reliability of the system as it automatically recovers in the event of a system service interruption  VI  P ERFORMANCE E VALUATION  Performance evaluation was conducted on the implementation environment, including the 10 HDFS based Content Storage Modules, 3 NginX based Streaming Server Modules, and 1 Tomcat based Streaming Task Management Module. The transmission rate of th e Streaming Server Module and the task distribution processing ratio of the Streaming Server Module were evaluated  A  Performance Evaluation of the Streaming Transmission Rate  TABLE III  T RANSMISSION R ATE OF A S YSTEM WITH RR  LC  AND SRC    RR  LC  SRC  Server A  61.18 MB s  62.85 MB /s  65.08 MB /s  Server B  61.75 MB /s  61.53 MB /s  63.75 MB /s  Server C  62.70 MB /s  61.74 MB /s  64.75 MB /s  Average  61.87 MB /s  62.04 MB /s  64.52 MB /s   Table 3  shows the streaming transmission rate of the distribution streaming server in a Cloud environment for the RR, LC, and SRC distribution algorithms. For the performance evaluation, we used 3 MB expanded MP4 media files converted in the HDVTS. The HTTP Progr essive Download method was used for a streaming protocol. For the performance evaluation scenario, 600 imaginary users logged into the system using the RR, LC, and SRC algorithms to calculate the transmission rate generated when streaming the media. The av erage transmission rate during a 1 s interval was measured 114 


The results of the performance evaluation for the RR method showed an average of 61.87 MB/s streaming transmission rate The LC method showed 62.04 MB/s streaming transmission rate. With 64.52 MB s streaming transmission rate, the SRC algorithm showed a better transmission rate than both the RR and LC methods. This is because the SRC method distributes tasks based on the system usage and streaming transmission rates, unlike the other methods  B  Task  Distribution Processing Ratio of the Streaming Task Management Module  TABLE IV  T ASK D ISTRIBUTION P ROCESSING R ATIO WITH RR  LC  AND SRC    RR  LC  SRC  Throughput  94.5 / s  93.8 / s  92.4 /s   Table 4  is the task processing rate per second of the Streaming Task Management Module applying the RR, LC and SRC distribution algorithms. For performance evaluation 300 imaginary users were assumed using the Apache Jmeter 2.9 web load tool. The task streaming  processing rate was monitored by requesting a streaming task distribution from the Streaming Task Management Module using the Listener HTTP Request function. The performance evaluation result for RR showed a 94.5 processing rate per second. The rate for LC was 93.8 processing rate per second. The SRC task distribution module showed a processing rate of every second. When performance was evaluated, it was verified that the task distribution model using the SRC algorithm showed safer task distribution effic iency by confirming functions of the same class compared to the task distribution module using RR and LC  VII  C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE R ESEARCH M ODEL  This study identified that existing task distribution algorithms, RR and LC, are inappropriate for streaming med ia distribution, and that the proposed SRC task distribution method was superior. The performance evaluation identified that, unlike the task distribution method that used the RR and LC algorithms, the task distribution method that used the SRC algorithm distributing tasks by considering the system usage and streaming transmission rates, was more appropriate for streaming media distribution  In addition, by verifying the streaming task processing rate per second of our proposed algorithm, it was identifie d that it was very safe and showed equal performance compared to the RR and LC algorithm that are used in many existing applications. Based on these results, improvements of the streaming media distribution process in a Cloud environment using the SRC alg orithm, will be studied in more detail Additional evaluation factors of the entire system, such as DISK I/O, OS, and network inside the cluster, will be considered       A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work \(Grants No  S2049513\ was supported by Korea Small and Medium Business Administration in 2013 223 This work is financially supported by Korea Minister of Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport as U City Master and Doctor Course Grant Program 224   R EFERENCES     223 Cisco Visual Networking  index Forecast and Methodology 2011 2016 224,  2012    E. Brynjolfsson and  A. McAfee, \223Big Data: The Management Revolution\224 Harvard Business Review Vol 90, No. 10, pp. 6 0 6 9 2012    Z. Tian, J. Xue, W. Hu  and N. Zheng 223High performa nce cluster based transcoder\224 In Proc. of 2010 International Conference on Computer Application and System Modeling\(ICCASM Vol 2, pp. 48 52, 2010    Kim, M., Han S., Jung, J., Lee, H  and  Choi, O 223 A Robust Cloud based Service  Architecture for Multimedia S treaming Using H adoop 224 Lecture Notes in  Electrical Engineering, vol.274, pp. 365 370, 2014    N. Heo, D. Lim, D. Seo  I. Jung, and Y. Kim 223Load Distribution Method and Admission control for Streaming Media QoS in Distributed Transcoding Servers\224 In Proc of ICCSA 2007  pp. 39 45, 2007    K. J. Ma, R. Barto\232, and S. Bhatia,\224A survey of schemes for Internet based video delivery\224 Journal of Network and Computer Applications  Vol 34  pp. 1572 1586, 2011    C. Li, G. Peng, K. Gopalan  and Chiueh. T  223Performance  guarantee for cluster based internet services\224 Parallel and Distributed Systems, 2002 Ninth International Conference on pp. 327 332, 2002    Y. M. Teo and R. Ayani,  \223Comparison of load balancing strategies on cluster based web servers\224 Simulation V ol 7 7 No. 5 6, pp.185 95 2001    A. Pior kowski, A. Kempny, A. Hajduk and and J. Strzelczyk 223Load Balancing for Heterogeneous Web Servers.\224 Computer Networks  Springer, pp.189 198, 2010     A. Mourad and L. Huiqun, \223Scalable Web server architectures\224 In Computer and Communications, 1997 Proceedings Second IEEE Symposium on pp. 12 16, 1997     K. Shvachko, H. Kuang, S. Radia et al., \223The Hadoop distributed file system,\224 In Proc. of 2010 IEEE 26th Symposium on Mass Storage Systems and Technologies pp.1 10  2010    Apache Hadoop http://hadoop.apache.org    Apache Jmeter, http://jemeter.apache.org   115 


                 


                


             





they assume the data is already in GPU global memory CUDA-lite translates an annotated kernel so that it prefetches the data from GPU memory in a coalesced fashion and stores it in GPU shared memory to where future data accesses are redirected In a similar w ork Y ang et al proposes various compiler optimizations including one that converts non-coalesced accesses into coalesced ones through the use of shared memory None of this prior w ork considers CPU-GPU data communications Our prefetching scheme is related to a method of dealing with irregular problems in distributed systems known as  15 Finally Zhang et al optimize the layout of irregularly accessed data to achieve more ef“cient GPU memory accesses by having the CPU place elements of an irregularly accessed array that will be accessed by GPU threads at the same time next to each other resulting in a higher degree of coalesced accesses VIII C ONCLUDING REMARKS We introduced  a scheme that provides pseudo-virtual memory to Big Data-style GPGPU applications that operate on streaming data BigKernel uses a 4-stage pipeline with automated prefetching to i optimize CPU-GPU communication and ii optimize GPU memory accesses It simpli“es the programming model by allowing programmers to write kernels using arbitrarily large data structures where the data records can be operated on independently thus relieving the programmer from having to partition the data into segments manage buffers transfer data between CPU and GPU and having to invoke GPU kernels multiple times Straight-forward compiler transformations are used to transform traditional GPU kernels into BigKernel On six applications we experimentally showed that BigKernel achieves an average speedup of 1.7X over implementations that use double buffering and an average speedup of 3X over multi-core CPU implementations We also showed that BigKernel largely removed PCIe from being a bottleneck for these applications with the bottleneck migrating to the GPU cores As future work we intend to gain more experience with additional applications with more complex data structures in particular we plan on applying BigKernel to MapReduce Since GPU processing is now often the bottleneck for the applications we studied we also intend to focus on improving GPU processing ef“ciency IX A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors are grateful to the anonymous reviewers Leonid Ryzhyk and Ding Yuan for their constructive and helpful comments This work is supported by NSERC research grants R EFERENCES  M Bauer  H Cook and B Khailan y  cudaDMA Optimizing GPU Memory Bandwidth via Warp Specialization In 
inspector-executor BigKernel 
 pages 12:1…12:11 2011  J Chapman I Ho S Sunkara S Luo G Schroth and D Rokhsar  Meraculous De Novo Genome Assembly with Short Paired-End Reads  8 2011  S Chen and S Schlosser  Map-reduce Meets W ider V arieties of Applications  2008  R Das M Uysal J Saltz and Y  Hw ang Communication Optimizations for Irregular Scienti“c Computations on Distributed Memory Architectures  pages 462…478 1994  I Gelado J Stone J Cabezas S P atel N Na v arro and W  Hwu An Asymmetric Distributed Shared Memory Model for Heterogeneous Parallel Systems In  pages 347…358 2010  C Gre gg and K Hazel w ood Where is the Data Why Y ou Cannot Debate CPU vs GPU Performance Without the Answer In  pages 134…144 2011  A Hagiescu H Huynh W  W ong and R Goh Automated Architecture-Aware Mapping of Streaming Applications onto GPUs In  pages 467…478 2011  T  Han and T  Abdelrahman hiCUD A a High-le v el Directi v e-based Language for GPU Programming In  pages 52…61 2009  H Huynh A Hagiescu W  W ong and R Goh Scalable Frame w ork for Mapping Streaming Applications onto Multi-GPU Systems In  pages 1…10 2012  T  Jablin J Jablin P  Prabhu F  Liu and D August Dynamically managed data for CPU-GPU architectures In  pages 165…174 2012  T  Jablin P  Prabhu J Jablin N Johnson S Beard and D August Automatic CPU-GPU Communication Management and Optimization In  pages 142…151 2011  T  K omoda S Miw a and H Nakamura Communication Library to Overlap Computation and Communication for OpenCL Application In  pages 567…573 2012  S Lee S Min and R Eigenmann OpenMP to GPGPU a Compiler Framework for Automatic Translation and Optimization In  pages 101…110 2009  S P ai R Go vindarajan and M Thazhutha v eetil F ast and Ef cient Automatic Memory Management for GPUs Using Compiler-assisted Runtime Coherence Scheme In  pages 33…42 2012  S Sharma R Ponnusamy  B Moon Y  Hw ang R Das and J Saltz Run-time and Compile-time Support for Adaptive Irregular Problems In  pages 97…106 1994  S Ueng M Lathara S Baghsorkhi and W  Hwu CUD A-Lite Reducing GPU Programming Complexity In  volume 5335 pages 1…15 2008  T  W ilson P  Hof fmann S Somasundaran J K essler  J  W iebe Y Choi C Cardie E Riloff and S Patwardhan OpinionFinder a System for Subjectivity Analysis In  HLT-Demo 05 pages 34…35 2005  Y  Y an M Grossman and V  Sarkar  J CUD A A Programmer Friendly Interface for Accelerating Java Programs with CUDA In  volume 5704 of  pages 887…899 2009  Y  Y ang P  Xiang J K ong and H Zhou A GPGPU Compiler for Cemory Cptimization and Carallelism Canagement In  pages 86…97 2010  E Zhang Y  Jiang Z Guo K T ian and X Shen On-the-”y Elimination of Dynamic Irregularities for GPU Computing In  pages 369…380 2011 
Proc 2011 Intl Conf for High Performance Computing Networking Storage and Analysis SC PLoS ONE Intel Research Pittsburgh Tech Rep IRP-TR-08-05 Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing Proc 15th Conf on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems ASPLOS Proc IEEE Intl Symp on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software ISPASS Proc 25th IEEE Intl Parallel Distributed Processing Symp IPDPS Proc 2nd Workshop on General Purpose Processing on Graphics Processing Units GPGPU Proc 17th Symp on Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming PPoPP Proc 10th Intl Symp on Code Generation and Optimization CGO Proc 32nd Conf on Programming Language Design and Implementation PLDI Proc 26th IEEE Intl Parallel and Distributed Processing Symp Workshops PhD Forum IPDPSW Proc 14th Symp on Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming PPoPP Proc 21st Intl Conf on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques PACT Proc of the 1994 Conf on Supercomputing Languages and Compilers for Parallel Computing Proc HLT/EMNLP on Interactive Demonstrations Euro-Par 2009 Parallel Processing Lecture Notes in Computer Science Pr oc 2010 Conf on Programming Language Design and Implementation PLDI Proc 16th Intl Conf on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems ASPLOS 
828 


  11   


              


           


                    


         


           


         


Emerging Topics—Co-Chairs: Theresa Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba Introduction to Emerging Topics Minitrack 1895 Theresa A. Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba A Framework for Benchmarking Open Government Data Efforts 1896 Djoko Sigit Sayogo, Theresa A. Pardo, and Meghan Cook Finding Needle in the Case-Stack: Effective Remote Monitoring of Courts 1906 Amn Rahman, Hassan Nawaz, Omer Naeem, Fareed Zaffar, Farooq Naseer, and Adeel Zaffar The Orientation-Maturity Framework for Understanding the E-Government Key Issues in China 1916 Zhang Nan, Yin Cong, Meng Qinguo, and Guo Xunhua E-Government Education—Co-Chairs: Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies Introduction to E-Government Education Minitrack 1926 Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies E-Government at Work Level: Skilling or De-skilling 1927 Tino Schuppan The Project TEDS@wildau: TEDS Framework Integration into the Moodle Platform for User-Specific Quality Assurance of Learning Scenarios 1935 Margit Scholl, Peter Ehrlich, Andreas Wiesner-Steiner, and Denis Edich ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster, and Catastrophe Management—Co-Chairs: Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Introduction to ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster and Catastrophe Management Minitrack 1946 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J. Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Sandy Tweets: Citizens’ Co-Production of Time-Critical Information during an Unfolding Catastrophe 1947 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Hans Jochen Scholl, and Uuf Brajawidagda Feelings and Perspective Matter: Sharing of Crisis Information in Social Media 1958 Rongjuan Chen and Yasuaki Sakamoto Social Media and Emergency Management: Exploring State and Local Tweets 1968 Lemuria Carter, Jason Bennett Thatcher, and Ryan Wright Table-Top Exercises for Emergency Management: Tame Solutions for Wicked Problems 1978 Svante Edzén Infrastructure Security—Co-Chairs: Wm. Arthur Conklin, Ray Vaughn, and Gregory White Introduction to Infrastructure Security Minitrack 1986 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Gregory B. White, and Rayford B. Vaughn Jr Designing a Formal Model Facilitating Collaborative Information Sharing for Community Cyber Security 1987 Wanying Zhao and Gregory White Municipal E-Government Security: Insights from a Study of Orange County, California 1997 Timothy J. Perez 
xxii 


Re-engineering Cybersecurity Education in the US: An Analysis of the Critical Factors 2006 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Raymond E. Cline, and Tiffany Roosa Security Analysis of Selected AMI Failure Scenarios Using Agent Based Game Theoretic Simulation 2015 Robert K. Abercrombie, Bob G. Schlicher, and Frederick T. Sheldon Unintentional Insider Threat: Contributing Factors, Observables, and Mitigation Strategies 2025 Frank L. Greitzer, Jeremy Strozer, Sholom Cohen, John Bergey, Jennifer Cowley Andrew Moore, and David Mundie Open and Participatory Government—Co-Chairs: Scott Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitch Cochran Introduction to Open and Participatory Government Minitrack 2035 Scott P. Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitchell Cochran A Proposed Standard Procedure to Define Minimum Scanning Attribute Levels for Hard Copy Documents 2036 Mitchell Cochran Active Citizen E-Participation in Local Governance: Do Individual Social Capital and E-Participation Management Matter 2044 Jooho Lee and Soonhee Kim Participatory Budgeting: A Framework to Analyze the Value-Add of Citizen Participation 2054 Catherine G. Mkude, Cristina Pérez-Espés, and Maria A. Wimmer Public Participation GIS: The Case of Redistricting 2063 Micah Altman and Michael P. McDonald The Challenges of Challenge.Gov: Adopting Private Sector Business Innovations in the Federal Government 2073 Ines Mergel, Stuart I. Bretschneider, Claudia Louis, and Jason Smith The Impact of the Transparency Policy on University Students’ Trust and Intention of Continued Use 2083 Ramón Rufín Moreno and Cayetano Medina Molina Open Data and Cloud Services—Co-Chairs: Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Introduction to Open Data and Cloud Services Minitrack 2093 Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Applying Design Patterns in URI Strategies—Naming in Linked Geospatial Data Infrastructure 2094 Sonya Abbas and Adegboyega Ojo Dynamic Capabilities for Information Sharing: XBRL Enabling Business-to-Government Information Exchange 2104 Marijn Janssen and Yao-Hua Tan Evaluating Second Generation Open Government Data Infrastructures Using Value Models 2114 Yannis Charalabidis, Euripides Loukis, and Charalampos Alexopoulos From the Ground to the Cloud—A Structured Literature Analysis of the Cloud Service Landscape around the Public and Private Sector 2127 Steffi Haag, Andreas Eckhardt, and Julia Krönung 
xxiii 


Having the Mind in the Cloud: Organizational Mindfulness and the Successful Use of Desktop as a Service 2137 Sabine Dernbecher Policies and Governance for the Network Society—Co-Chairs: Peter Parycek, Antonio Cordella, and Frank Bannister Introduction to Policies and Governance for the Network Society Minitrack 2147 Peter Parycek, Frank Bannister, and Antonio Cordella Legitimate E-Government—Public E-Services as a Facilitator of Political Legitimacy 2148 Elin Wihlborg The Public Procurement of IS—A Process View 2158 Carl Erik Moe and Mike Newman The Role of ICTs in Adaptive and Persistent Authoritarianism: A Study of China at the Administrative Division Level 2168 Qinfeng Zhu and Marko M. Skoric Services and Information—Co-Chairs: L. Christian Schaupp, Lemuria Carter, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazan Introduction to Services and Information Minitrack 2178 Lemuria Carter, Ludwig C. Schaupp, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazán E-Government Web Portal Adoption: A Service Level and Service Quality Perspective 2179 Xiao Jiang and Shaobo Ji Explanation of Public Private Partnership \(PPP Perspective 2189 Ramesh Narasimhan and Madhuchhanda Das Aundhe Motivations, Deployment, and Assessment of Taiwan’s E-Invoicing System: An Overview 2200 Yuh-Jzer Joung, Yen-Chung Tseng, Shih-Chao Cha, Nai-Wei Lo, Gary Chung, and Chun-Kun Liu The Role of Familiarity or Experience in Generating Trust and in Its Impact on Continued Use 2210 Cayetano Medina Molina and Ramón Rufín Moreno Social Media and Social Networking and Government—Co-Chairs: Suha AlAwadhi, Jay Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Introduction to Social Media and Social Networking and Government Minitrack 2220 Suha Alawadhi, Jay P. Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Application of Web 2.0 Technologies in E-Government: A United Kingdom Case Study 2221 Uthayasankar Sivarajah, Zahir Irani, and Stephen Jones Crowdsourcing Hazardous Weather Reports from Citizens via Twittersphere under the Short Warning Lead Times of EF5 Intensity Tornado Conditions 2231 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield and Uuf Brajawidagda My Name Is Khan: The Use of Twitter in the Campaign for 2013 Pakistan General Election 2242 Saifuddin Ahmed and Marko M. Skoric 
xxiv 


Transformational Government—Co-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, César Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad Røberg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems Track—Co-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and Policy—Chair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Göran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologies’ State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catalão, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Göran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources—Chair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fernández Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark O’Malley Monitoring, Control, and Protection—Chair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. Domínguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan “Mani” Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient Networks—Chair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation Tool—C GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare Track—Co-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics—Co-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cláudia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and Applications—Co-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health Informatics—Co-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, Jørgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, José A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fernández, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge Planning—Experiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara Eriksén Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and Analysis—Co-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare—Co-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physicians’ Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn O’Mara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy Paré, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klöcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments—Co-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Sönke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim O’Donoghue, Noel O’Kelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Köhler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patients’ Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, Tülay Özata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare—Co-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy Track—Co-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience—Co-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?—A Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumers’ Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alahäivälä, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Keränen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic Marketing—Co-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and Chasing—The Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individuals’ Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Aren’t the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research—Co-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employees’ Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jörg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten Öksüz, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital Economy—Co-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on Purpose—Factors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open Communities—Co-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire It’s Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel André Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society—Co-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltrán Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltrán An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual Use—Empirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rönkkö, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems Track—Co-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs—Co-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing System—A Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimarães, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems—Co-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo Käköl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo Käköl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research—Co-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and Security—Co-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero Päivärinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge Economics—Co-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange—Co-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individuals’ Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management—Co-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth Rodríguez, Jessica Díaz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Pérez, and Agustín Yagüe Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements—Co-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology Track—Chair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information Systems—Co-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo Käköl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmström, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropy’s Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data—Co-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo Bühnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges—Co-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Köppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre Métrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process Management—A Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Krüp, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jörn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerström, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process Intelligence—Co-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus Nüttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation—Co-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria Åkesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications Industry—An Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and Josée St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nöhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bjørn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce—Co-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 René Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developers’ Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionals’ Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers—Co-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements Uncertainty—A Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society—Co-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic Commerce—Evidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response—Co-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design—Co-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrödl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for Development—Co-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, François Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project Management—Co-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS Outsourcing—A Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its Mechanisms—Chair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. Maçada, and João Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology—Co-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the “Future School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems—Co-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria Åkesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network Organizations—A Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS Research—Co-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS Research—A Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology—Co-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT Outsourcing—A Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and Frédéric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality Management—An Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology Track—Co-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products—Chair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, Débora Martins, and Mariela Cortés Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software Engineering—Co-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar Rodríguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fernández-Sánchez, Jessica Díaz, Jennifer Pérez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice—Co-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian D’Orazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance—Co-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and Training—Co-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud Computing—Co-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data Protection—A Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management—Co-Chairs: Timo Käkölä and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo Käkölä and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 Agustín Yagüe, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Pérez, and Jessica Díaz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customer’s and the Vendor’s Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile Platforms—Co-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 Sébastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless Networks—Co-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jestädt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


