The Impact of Social Support of Guild Members and Psychological Factors  on Flow and Game Loyalty in MMORPG Juseon Kang a Ilsang Ko b Yunjung Ko c a,b Department of Business Administration Graduate School, ChonnamNationalUniversity 500-757, 300 Yongbong-dong Buk-gu Gwangju, Korea Tel: +82-62-530-1430, Fax: +82-62-530-1449, E-mail kjuseon@nate.com Tel: +82-62-530-1444, Fax: +82-62-530-0228, E-mail:isko@chonnam.ac.kr c Economy Management Research Institute Kyungpook National University 702-701,1370 Sankyul-dong Buk-gu Daegu, Korea Tel: +82-53-950-6787, E-mail: yjgo0807@empal.com 
Abstract The objective of this study is to identify the relationships in which social support influences flow and game loyalty through character control, character identity, guild identity and self-esteem. For the study, focus group interviews were carried out with MMORPG gamers and, as a result important factors such as so cial support and self-esteem were found. Based on prior research and the focus group interviews with MMORPG gamers, the independent variables of social support and character control were identified. Character identity, guild identity and self-esteem are proposed as mediating variables with flow and loyalty as the dependent variables. The research model and 
hypotheses were developed and then verified   empirically The data was collected from 244 WOW gamers to verify the research model and SEM analysis was then used to test goodness-of-fit of the model. The results were as follows First, social support had a statistically significant impact on character control, character identity, guild identity and self-esteem. Second, character control had significant effects on character identity, guild identity and self-esteem Third, character identity had a clear effect on self-esteem Fourth, guild identity affected self-esteem, flow and loyalty Fifth, self-esteem had a positive influence on flow  1. Introduction Due to the dramatic growth in the number of users of online games, the revenue of the Internet game industry has 
dramatically increased. As a consequence, different genres of games have been developed, many of which are designed to interact with individual gamers. With the rapid development of the game industry, there is a growing recognition that online games are an accepted leisure activity. People tend to establish interpersonal relationships and/or a virtual community by playing online games Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game MMORPG\ a representative game which incorporates both of these features. Nowadays, online gamers have a lot 
of social interaction and active communication in the virtual community, when they play online games. It is possible for many people to simultaneously participate in a game; so, communication is necessary for cooperation and negotiation during games. The gamers can greatly influence each oth  T h ere is s o m e res earch on th e f actors th at  influence the sharing of information and cooperation amongst gamers through guilds   u ch res earch is nevertheless exploratory. The present research focuses on identifying the factors that arise through interactions between gamers in a guild where people develop 
interpersonal relationships through frequent interactions 2. Theoretical Background  2.1. MMORPG and Guild MMORPG is an online, role-playing game wherein many gamers create their own characters and interact with each other in a virtual community ccordin g  to MMOGCHART \(2006\op three games that currently lead in the game market are World of Warcraft, Lineage, and Run P G is th e bes t con cer n a m o n g developers. Obviously, each game has its unique characteristics, however, the genre of games definitely has in common, MMORPG. The most striking feature of 
MMORPG, when compared to offline games, is the guild system T h e m e m b ers wh o belon g to t h e g u ild sh are information about games and regularly play games within a virtual community  Many MM OR P G s o f f e r  guild-chatting or guild-messenger services to encourage guild members to actively communicate with each other  Us in g adaptiv e s t r u ct u r ation th eor y  L ee a n d K w o n   al y zed th e inf l u e n ce of appropriation on  performance in a MMORPG game The guild refers to a virtual community whose sole purpose is to enable gamers to interact with each other all 
the time  e e et al  e t h i gh  v a l u e on t h e  interaction between users and invoke the concept of a sense of community. However, they did not clarify the meaning of guild.ê Jo et al 5 d e f i n e d th e ter m in ter m s o f a  community of players of a particular game and suggested an integrated model by mapping out two strategies, namely Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3 2009 U.S. Government Work Not Protected by U.S. Copyright 


a control-enhancing strategy and an interaction-enhancing strategy. A guild is sometimes also called a èclan.ê Many MMORPGs provide game players with both chatting and instant-guild-messenger services for better communication amongst the guild members [56   T h r o ugh a n e t h n o g r a p h i c  approach involving WoW gamers, Williams et al  developed a typology of players and guilds to examine the social dynamics of guilds targeting Wow gamers. Social interaction tends to increase due to the enjoyable environment of the guild and gamers build a social network over time. Williams et al 1 fo und t h a t p l a y i n g W o W is as social as any team sport. After reviewing the literature it was found that there is some research on guilds, and that some scholars are focusing their attention on guilds. Since the guild is a major factor of game loyalty, in which interactions between gamers are developed, it is considered important in an investigation of the psychological factors of gamers and their relationships 2.2. Social support Social support has been examined in the field of psychology. It is usually studied as an intervening factor of the relationship between stress and adaptation. Cohen and Hoberman in ed s o cial s u pport as th e bes t pos itiv e  resource that an individual can achieve from the personal relationships they have. Rich def in ed t w o t y pe s of social support: informational support \(through the sharing of information\d physical support \(where there is personal relational support\House s i dered s o cial  support as personal behavior that involves emotional interest, instrumental support, information on oneês surroundings, and positive evaluations about oneself According to Cohen and Hoberman o cial s u pport  falls into four divisions according to function: emotional support; informational support; instrumental support; and appraisal support. Emotional support makes people feel comfortable through the expression of sympathy and the demonstration of respect or affection. Informational support refers to the provision of information or advice that is helpful for problem-solving. Instrumental support refers to the provision of an instrument or property that is useful for handling problems. Appraisal support is something that helps people to evaluate themselves by letting them see themselves through othersê eyes. The virtual community also offers consistent social relationships. Through these relationships, people exchange the same type of social support online as they do offlin  Through focus-group interviews, it was found that social support within guilds is also divided into emotional informational, instrumental, and appraisal categories, as suggested by Cohen and Hoberman oth e r w o rds  we found that the members of a guild are accustomed to an environment where they share information, give items for free, and evaluate themselves through others. Gamers at the higher levels usually help their comrades at the lower levels and teach them the skills that are needed to play the games  2.3. Identity theory Much of the research on identity, from a social-psychological viewpoint, is conducted within organizations and based on social-identity theory    Dutton et al  div i ded th e con cept of eg o in to t w o parts   personal identity and social identity. The identity that is related with an individual or group plays a significant role in influencing the concept of ego, i.e., the sense of oneês social identity, and subsequently leads to self-definition The process of building up self-definition is called identity It is obvious that personal identity is complementary to group identity. Prior research classifies identity into three kinds: organizational identity  tit y  w i t h t h e online environmen   38][5 4]; an d iden tit y  w i t h t h e  virtual community [52    According to community theory, the community identity refers to a wide range of psychological mechanisms that recognize the community h e com m u n i t y ide n tit y h a s  many psychological mechanisms that guide members behavior in interactions within the community. By eliciting commitment and responsibility and emotionally connecting members, identity plays an important role in the conduct of members of a community The degree of online-community identity depends on how strong an individualês self identity is and/or how firm the social identity is toward the community  A s  previously mentioned, identity is classified into two parts personal identity and social identity  Pe rs on al identity is defined as the degree of similarity between the image of the product/service and the image the individual has of themselves w h ereas s o cial identit y i m p lies  individual knowledge about a specific social group that is important and valuable for the individualês membershi The field of organizational behavior has suggested the concept of cognitive factors of social identity as an example of self-categorization that is established by members on their own r g a m i and Bag ozzi [3 4] n o ted th ree different aspects of the concept of social identity, pointing out that social identity in terms of a valued group involves cognitive, affective, and evaluative components, and motivates behavior that is consistent with identity maintenance As social identity theory explains, the degree of community identity reflects the individualês psychological attachment for the community  be s a id th at community identity persuades people to change their way of behavior and makes them aware of the necessity of community. In other words, the greater is the awareness or sense of community, the more that people identify with the community. In this study, using identity theory, we recast personal identity as character identity, and social identity as guild identity, so that we can employ them as research variables for the environment of MMORPG 2.4. Self-esteem Self-esteem is defined as the degree to which someone regards himself/herself as a valuable person T h at is  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


we can say that self-esteem affects the ego. Individuals who have high self-esteem, can protect themselves from mental illness, recover quickly from stress, and are strongly motivated to solve problems. Individuals with high self-esteem tend to experience greater satisfaction with life  s th e m o tiv a tion t h eo ry o f Mas lo w 5] propos es   there are two forms of esteem needs, a lower form and a higher form. People with low self-esteem need respect from others. They may seek fame, glory, dignity, attention, and reputation, which again depend on others. These types of people think of themselves as important beings when they receive high evaluations from others. The higher form involves the need for self-respect, including such feelings as confidence, competence, achievement, independence and freedom. People with the higher form of self-esteem feel that they are skilled, conf ident, and competent when they achieve what they desire. If they do not achieve what they originally seek, they suffer from depression and experience helplessness, inferiority, and spiritlessness Maslow o ted th at selfre spect is m u c h  m o re i m portan t  than the respect of others, because, unlike the respect of others, self-esteem is a lot harder to lose. Likewise members of the guild will continue to take part in the guild by evaluating their own value through communication with each other  From focus-group interviews, this study found that self-esteem is established through information sharing and social support with guild members. That is, when gamers win games by their own clever tactics, they think of themselves as important beings, who receive favorable comments and respect 3. Focus group interviews \(FGI Based on the experience of playing WoW games, the authors proposed a research model and conducted focus-group interviews \(FGI\volve formulating a hypothesis and then collecting some relevant data. Williams and Sk in s i s t ed th at r e s earch ers of g a m e s sh ou ld be able to actually play the game they are studying before they carry out a survey. If they do not, they will not know what questions they should ask, they will not be able to decipher the local language, they will not understand the mechanics of the game and they will not have a sense of the social context of play FGI were conducted face-to-face with students of C University in Korea. We formulated structured interview schedules, which included questions that were based on our research variables and personal experience. Then, the key point of the questions and the order of questions were explained to respondents The questions for the interviews encompassed: \(a\e demographic characteristics of the focus group; \(b\e number of years for which respondents had played online games; \(c\e motive for starting a game; \(d\e number of game-characters assumed by each gamer; \(e\e type of game played; and \(f\er issues such as the reasons for involvement in the play, the willingness to reuse the game in case new versions were released, etc. In general, it took two hours to interview each of three groups. A tape-recorder was used to record the content of the interviews. Table 1 lists the demographic characteristics of each group. All respondents were heavy users h o spent more than three hours each day playing games, had more than two yearsê experience in playing games possessed more than two game-characters, and reached the highest level, i.e., 70. Therefore, the focus groups definitely represented general users of games, since the members had rich experience and profound knowledge of games  Table 1> Characteristics of the focus groups Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Number of respondents 4 5 5 Age 28 25~26 24~26 Title of the game WoW WoW WoW Years for which they have played the game 2, 3 2 2 The number of game-characters they possess 2 2~5 3~5 The highest level 70 60~70 60~70 Average duration for which a game is played 5~8 hr 3~5 hr 3~5 hr Character race Horde Alliance Horde Playable server Normal Combat Normal 3.1. The results of the first FGI A primary set of FGI was conducted with three groups on the premise that there would be some differences by character race \(Horde vs. Alliance\ playable server Normal vs. Combat\he three groups were of the same level of ability and there were no obvious differences Responses did not vary across races and servers. The second interview was constructed targeting just one group which consists of four- five respondents chosen at first interview. With respect to the manner of playing, it was found that guild members shared information, felt a sense of belonging, and played computer games for quite a long time through the guild; however, they did not undergo these experiences when playing alone. Gamers who belonged to a specific guild helped other players without claiming compensation, shared information about the game, gave items for free, and forgave others who made mistakes. They were mutually aware of their existence and experienced a sense of belonging through interactions with, and evaluations from, other players. It was clear that social support was shown within the guild and that it played an important role as a major research variable. Using the results of the first FGI, a second set of in-depth FGI was carried out where the psychology of the individual within the guild and the social community of the guild were the focus 3.2. The results of the second FGI A second set of FGI was undertaken that focused on the guild and offline meetings. Gamers recognize the necessity of joining a community, not only in real life, but also in the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


online world of the guild. They admit that the guild is important and is needed so they can easily and conveniently enjoy playing online computer games. The active behavior and positive attitudes of existing guild members can motivate new members of the guild to adapt themselves to the guild environment. They then adopt the same behaviors and attitudes of established guild members. In this manner the new members of the guild strengthen the bonds between gamers, feel a sense of belonging, and develop social identity. It was discovered that the interaction among guild members and the social support encouraged new gamers to quickly develop a sense of social identity and increase their self-esteem. The guild seemed to play the role of socializing gamers. Sometimes, even in the real world, the guild members helped one another; so, the features of the guild also spilled over into the offline environment. We intend to use self-esteem, which was found through the second set of FGI, as an important research variable 4. The Research Model and Hypotheses  4.1. The research model Considerable research is being carried out on MMORPG from various angles; however, studies that deal with the concept of guilds are very 14 50  Bas ed on  both  FGI and prior theory, seven variables are drawn that focus on the guild. Among them, social support and self-esteem which were discovered in the FGI, are considered to be important variables at the level of the guild. Therefore, we intend to reveal the impact of social support on flow and loyalty, as mediated by character control, character identity guild identity, and self-esteem We developed the following research model and hypotheses based on prior research 11 12 16 1 7][2 2    35 50 5 1][5 6] an d th e res u lts of  f o cu s g r o u p interviews \(Figure 1  Figur  T h e Res ear ch M o del  4.2. The Hypotheses 4.2.1. The relationships between social support character control, character identity, guild identity, and self-esteem Social support [47  be con s t ru ed as of f e ring information about how to setup game-characters, how to achieve quests, etc., to members of the guild. Character control is conceptually related to manipulating game-character directly aracter iden ti t y  is de f i n e d a s  a feeling of identity with the character and guild identity is defined as a feeling or a sense of belonging to a guild Self-esteem is related to the degree to which gamers think of themselves as important beings in a guild. The greater is the social support the guild members are given, the greater are the character identity and character control that they have. Based on the results of FGI, four hypotheses were formulated that deal with the relationships between social support, character control, character identity, guild identity and self-esteem H1. Social support will be positively associated with character control H2. Social support will be positively associated with character identity H3. Social support will be positively associated with guild identity H4. Social support will be positively associated with self-esteem 4.2.2. The relationships be tween character control character identity, guild identity, and self-esteem The concept of control is the psychological desire of a human being that affects their ego and self-esteem     It is directl y  related to th e m a n i pu lat i on o f  a targ  T h e g a m e rs in MM OR P G  m a k e an ef f o rt to skillfully manipulate their characters. The higher is the level of the character, the more is the character control they have. It encourages gamers to identify themselves with their characters and the guild and can increase their self-esteem Based on the results of FGI, Hypotheses 5, 6, and 7 can be formulated as follows H5 Character control will be positively associated with character identity H6 Character control will be positively associated with guild identity H7 Character control will be positively associated with self-esteem 4.2.3. The relationships betw een character identity self-esteem, flow, and game loyalty Personal identity is evident when a client is aware of the similarity between him/her and the online community Where the self-image matches the online community image and users have the chance to express or improve their image though the online community, they will highly rate the community. They will provide information about the community and frequently interact with gamers from the community  oth er w o rds g a m e rs beco m e  immersed in the online community. Based on the results of FGI, Hypotheses 8, 9, and 10 are  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


H8. Character identity will be positively associated with self-esteem H9. Character identity will be positively associated with flow H10. Character identity will be positively associated with game loyalty 4.2.4. The relationship betw een guild identity self-esteem, flow, and game loyalty Williams [14 su g g e sted th at g a m e r s h a v e so cial  interaction when they enjoy participating in the guild; from this interaction, social networks are created. Gamers who have strong guild identity try to increase their self-esteem through social interaction within the guild. Based on the results of FGI, Hypotheses 11, 12, and 13 are H11. Guild identity will be positively associated with self-esteem H12. Guild identity will be positively associated with flow H13. Guild identity will be positively associated with game loyalty 4.2.5. The relationships between self-esteem, flow, and game loyalty Like sports and danci  a m e s are als o considered to be related to self-esteem and may be one of the factors that affect pleasure. Self-esteem that is built through social interaction with guild members will increase flow and game loyalty. Based on this, Hypotheses 14 and 15 are H14. Self-esteem will be positively associated with flow H15. Self-esteem will be positively associated with game loyalty 4.2.6. The relationship between flow and game loyalty Based on research that established the relationship between flow and game loyalty  poth e s i s 16 is formulated H16. Flow will be positively associated with game loyalty  5. Research Methodology 5.1. Variables and their definitions Based on the prior study and FGI, a measuring device was developed to determine the constructs of the research model Some constructs have been adjusted to fit the purpose of the study \(Table 2 Table 2> Variables and their definitions Va ri a bl es Definitions Ref Social Support Positive resource that gamers get from personal relationships  Character Control The ability that includes awareness of control of their game-characters and the actual competence for skillfully controlling them   Character Identity A feeling of identity with the character    Guild Identity A feeling or a sense of belonging to a guild 5  9  Self Esteem The degree to which gamers think of themselves as important beings in a guild  Flow A state where there is a feeling of pleasure and excitement when gamers are completely involved in playing a game 11     Game Loyalty The intention of consistently playing the game even if new RPG games are released by other companies 8    5.2. Data collection To collect data, an online survey was designed with a questionnaire to be completed by WoW gamers, who belong to a guild. The survey was registered on the best three domestic game-sites: èWoW playforum;ê èWoW gamemeca;ê and èWow invent.ê The items to be measured that were included in the questionnaire were based on prior research and data from FGI. To verify the content of the questionnaire, we carried out a pilot test with the same participants to correct ambiguous questions and ensure there were no misunderstandings. A total of 244 responses were analyzed from the 250 questionnaires that were completed 6. Results  6.1. Descriptive statistics After the survey was carried out, the demographics of the respondents were checked. Of all the respondents, 87.7 percent \(n=214\as male and 12.3 percent \(n=30\as female. Most of the male respondents were university students \(36.9%\ who were aged between 25 and 29 years Gamers with more than three yearsê experience had, on average, more than five game-characters \(48.8%\Some gamers owned the highest level \(a level of 70\of characters and played computer games for four-five hours \(30 average per day. In relation to the time they spent on online games, most of the respondents were heavy gamers However, although it was obvious that they were heavy gamers, they seemed unwilling to admit the fact and said that they were only light gamers 6.2. Reliability  Cronbach's was used to assess whether the variables were reliable or not. For each item, Cronbach's 0.883~0.924\ was higher than the acceptable criterion of 0.8, which indicated that all items were highly reliable Table 3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Table 3> Reliability Va ri a bl es Cronbachês No. of Items Note Social Support 0.924 3 4,5 removed Character Control 0.883 5  Character Identity 0.835 4 4 removed Guild Identity 0.834 5  Self-Esteem 0.864 4 4 removed Flow 0.936 5 Loyalty 0.901 5 6.3. Validity  Validity is the degree to which an item actually measures what it is intended to measure. A confirmatory factor analysis was used to analyze validity. The results after the exclusion of some items \(cont1, sup1, sup2, sup5, cide1 cide5, gide3, gide4, gide5, flow4, flow5, loy1, and loy5 that would hinder unidimensionality are shown in Table 4 The goodness-of fit indices for each measurement model were 133.40 \(with 98 degrees of freedom\; GFI=0.94 RMR=0.06; RMSEA=0.03; AGFI=0.91; CFI=0.99; and NFI=0.97. All were higher than the standards generally suggested. Construct reliability exceeded 0.7, which is a suggested standard value, and AVE exceeded 0.5, which is a suggested standard valu con clu s ion each ite m of this study is valid for the associated research variables\(Table 4 Table 4> Confirmatory Factor Analysis variables items Standar dized solution Measure ment error t-value Construct reliability AV E  Character Control cont2 cont3 0.98 0.88 0.05 0.22 17.55 15.45 0.928 0.918 Social Support sup3 sup4 0.89 0.79 0.20 0.38 16.31 13.89 0.830 0.776 Character Identity cide2 cide3 0.90 0.96 0.19 0.07 15.17 16.41 0.930 0.920 Guild Identity gide1 gide2 0.86 0.90 0.27 0.18 15.16 16.26 0.873 0.842 Self Esteem est3 est4 est5 0.70 0.82 0.80 0.51 0.33 0.37 11.66 14.50 13.94 0.816 0.528 Flow flow1 flow2 flow3 0.95 0.97 0.97 0.11 0.05 0.06 19.74 20.84 20.59 0.974 0.972 Loyalty loy2 loy3 loy4 0.82 0.90 0.82 0.33 0.19 0.33 14.92 17.17 14.81 0.884 0.845 To confirm the discriminant validity of the variables, it was verified whether the AVEs exceeded the squares of the correlation coefficients among constructs h ere w a s  discriminant validity because all AVEs satisfied this requirement \(Table 5 Table 5> correlations and discriminant validity Varia bles  AV E  1 2 3 4 5 6 Character Control 0.918  Social Support 0.776 0.30 Character Identity 0.920 0.27 0.22 Guild Identity 0.842 0.40 0.65 0.19    Self-Esteem 0.528 0.45 0.42 0.28 0.42   Flow 0.972 0.31 0.39 0.15 0.59 0.61  Loyalty 0.845 0.24 0.29 0.24 0.42 0.41 0.36 6.4. Verifications of the structural model and the hypotheses In Figure 2 below, among 16 paths suggested in the research model, 13 paths were verified as statistically significant. The effects of social support on character control \(H1\aracter identity \(H2\uild identity \(H3 and self-esteem \(H4\were all proved to be statistically significant. The effects of character control on character identity \(H5\uild identity \(H 6\d self-esteem \(H7\were all proved to be statistically significant. The effects of character identity on self-esteem \(H8\d loyalty \(H10 the effects of guild identity on self-esteem \(H11\d game loyalty \(H13\d the effect of self-esteem on flow \(H14 were all proved to be statistically significant  Figure 2> The results of SEM analysis As a result of verifying the research model, GFI and RMSEA were lower than their criteria while RMR, AGFI PNFI, NFI, NNFI, CFI were all higher than their criteria Table 6 Table 6> Goodness-of-fit indexes of the research model Fit index Absolute fit index x 2 p,df GFI RMR RMSEA Criteria 0.9 0.1 0.05 Result 248.64 0.00,154 0.89 0.1 0.06 Parsimonious fit index Incremental fit index x 2 df AGFI PNFI NFI NNFI CFI 3.0 0.8 0.6~0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 1.61 0.84 0.73 0.95 0.96 0.97 7. Conclusion This study focuses on the relationships in which social support influences flow or game loyalty through character control, character identity, guild identity, and self-esteem which are present within a guild in the MMORPG game environment. The facts discovered are as follows. First, the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


effects of social support on character control, character identity, guild identity and self-esteem are proven to be statistically significant. It was found that character control improves character identity, guild identity and self-esteem Among the seven variables, so cial support, which is derived from FGI, plays an important role in this study. With the active support of other guild members, gamers can improve their ability to develop good characters and to control them Second, character identity has a positive effect on self-esteem and game loyalty, while guild identity has a significant effect on self-esteem, flow and loyalty Self-esteem affects the flow. It was found that the higher are the character and guild identities, the greater is the self-esteem that is established. Contrary to the findings of prior research [32  a s f oun d th a t th e relat ion s h ip  between character identity and flow is not significant Rather, it was found that character identity directly affects game loyalty. Even though character identity had no direct effect on increasing flow, it secondarily affected flow through self-esteem. The significant relationship between self-esteem and flow indicates that gamers achieve flow i.e., a feeling of pleasure and excitement, through social support Several important implications of this study should be noted. First, both qualitative and quantitative methods were used to conduct this study. Through FGI, it was observed that both social support and self-esteem are important variables. Second, research relating to guilds has rarely been carried out. This research has focused on the guild  w h ic h is ex pected to p l a y an i m porta n t role in th e  online community. Third, according to the result, six hypotheses \(H1, H5, H6, H7, H8, and H11\hich were setup based on FGI, were statistically significant; so, we can suggest the corresponding relationships among the variables as a guideline for follow-up research. Fourth social support, self-esteem and identity are important variables that affect flow and game loyalty in the MMORPG game. Fifth, game developers should provide extra communication functions for the guild community so that gamers can play online games in collaboration with each other. It is suggested that positive self-esteem, which is built up through social support, can help gamers to achieve flow and reduces negative motivation. Sixth, on the basis of FGI, we suggest that gamers have strong loyalty towards WoW, as all respondents agreed that they would consistently play WoW, even if new RPG games are released by other companies References   Ban du ra  S elf e f f icac y  T h e ex ercis e of con trol New York : Freeman, 1997  B.d R i o, R  Vz qu ez, a n d V. Ig les ias  T h e Ef f ect of Brand Associations on Consumer Response," Journal of Consumer Marketing, 18\(5\ 2001, pp. 410-425 3  Fis h e r  an d C. So n n   A sp iratio n to Co m m u n i t y   Community Responses to Rejection," Journal of Community Psychology, 27\(6\99, pp. 715-725  h er A an d Son n   C Ps y c h o log ica l s e ns e of Community in Australia and the challenges of change Journal of Community Psychology, 30\(6\2, pp 597-609   H. Mas lo w   A T h eor y of Motiv atio n  t h e Biolog ical  Rooting of the Value Life," Journal of Humanistic Psychology, 1967  Nardi, S L y a n d J. Harris  L earn ing co n v e r s atio n  in World of Warcraft," Proceeding of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Science, Big Island Hawaii, 2007   Forn ell, an d D.F L a rk er  E v a l u ati n g S t ru ct u r al  Equation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Error,é Journal of Marketing, Vol. 19, No. 4 1982, pp. 440-452  S.B. P a rk an d K.H. Kim   T h e Ef f e c t of Marketing Activities, Social Interactivity, Flow on Online Game Loyalty and Word of Mouth: - On the Role of Brand Attractiveness and Brand Identification as a Mediating Variables,é Marketing Research, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2003, pp 93-120  d a m s  an d M A   Hogg  I n Social Iden tit y T h eor y   Constructive and Critical Advance," in: Springer-Berlag New York, Inc., New York, 1990, pp. 1-9  an d D. Chav is S en se o f Co m m unit y  A  Definition and Theory," Journal of Community Psychology 14, 1986, pp. 6-23 11 D  L H o f f m a n a n d T  P  N o va k  M a k e t i ng i n  Hypermedia Computer Mediated Environments Conceptual foundations," Journal of Marketing, 80\(4\1996 pp. 50-68  h oi, S.J P a rk an d J  W  Ki m   A S t r u ctu red  Analysis Model of Customer Loyalty in Online Games The Journal of MIS Research, Vol. 11, No. 3, 2001  D W illia m s an d M. Sk oric, "In tern et f a n t as y  v i ole n ce  A test of aggression in an online game." Communication Monographs, 72, 2005, pp. 217-233  W illia m s N. D u c h eneau t L  Xiong Y   Zh ang N  Yee, and E. Nickell, "From Tree House to Barracks: The Social Life of Guilds in World of Warcraft," Games and Culture, Vol. 1, No. 338, 2006  E. Dien er E M. Su h  R  L u ca s  an d H. S m it h   Subjective Well-Being: Three Decades of Progress Psychological Bulletin, 125, 1999, pp. 276-302   G  Pa rk an d J.H. Kim    T h e Ef f e c t of S o cial Su pport in On-line Community on Community Involvement and Self-esteemé, Korea Journal of Social and Personality Psychology, Vol. 19, No. 1, 2005, pp. 13-25  F B. Mael an d E A s h f o r th  A lum ni an d T h eir A l m a  Mater: A Partial Test of The Reformulated Model of Organizational Identification" Journal of Organizational Behavior, 13, 1992, pp. 103-123 18 G  La ntz  a n d L Sa nd r a    A n E x a m i n a tio n o f the  Community and Purchase Preference Using the Social Identity Approach," Advances in Consumer Research, 25 1998, pp. 486-491  W. S c hm idt, an d G.L  S t ein   S port com m i t m en t   A  model integrating enjoyment, dropout, and burnout Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


Journal of sport & exercise Psychology, 13, 1991, pp 254-265  H T a j f el, an d J  C   T u rn er  T h e s o cial iden tit y of intergroup behavior,é In S. Worchel and W. Austin \(Eds Psychology of Intergroup Relations, 1986, pp. 7-24  tton J  M. Duk eris h  an d C.V Harq u aill  Organizational Images and Member Identification Administrative Science Quarterly, 39\(2\94, pp 239-263  J.F Jr Hai r  R  E. A n de rs on R  L  T a th a m an d W  C   Black Multivariate Data Analysis, 5th ed  Prentice-Hall International, 1998 23  J  G  Rich ter an d E.L S t r u en in g   C risis o f  m a te lo ss in  the elderly,é Advances in nursing science, 6\(4\1984, pp 49  J.L Pierce  T  Kos tov a, an d K.T  Dirk s  T ow ard A Theory of Psychological Ownership in Organizations Academy of Management Review \(26:2\01, pp 298-310   L  P i erce, T  Kos tov a, an d K.T Dirk s    T h e Sta te of Psychology Ownership: Integrating and Extending a Century of Research," Review of General Psychology 7\(11\, 2003, pp. 84-107  J.S. Hou s e  W ork s t res s an d s o cial s u pport Deadin g   MA Addison-Wesey, 1981  K. R u y t er an d M W etzels  O n th e R elation s h ip  Between Perceived Service Quality, Service Loyalty and Switching Costs," International Journal of Service Industry Management, 9, 1998, pp. 436-445   V  D y n e a n d J.L Pi erce, "Psy ch ol ogi cal O w nersh i p  and Feelings of Possession: Three field Studies Predicting Employee Attitudes and Organizational Citizenship Behavior," Journal of Organizational Behavior \(25:4\, 2004 pp. 439-459   C s i k s z e n t m i h al y i  F l o w  T h e Ps y c h o l ogy o f  Optimal Experience," Harper and Row, New York, 1990  Hog g  an d D. A b r a m s  S ocial Iden tif ica tion s    London: Routledge. 1988  e De v e lopm e n t  Prom otio n Ins tit u t e   Korea Game White Paper, 2006  K.S. Kim A St u d y of D a n ce Maj or on  P h y s ical Sel f  Efficacy and Self - Esteem of College Studentsé, The Korean Society of Dance, 28, 2000, pp. 98-110   S t ole W ill th e real body pleas e s t a n d u p   Boundary stories about virtual cultures," in M Benedikt\(Ed.\berspace: First steps. Cambridge Massachusetts: MIT Press, 2002  M Be r g a m i, an d R  P   Bag ozzi S el f cate g orization affective commitment and group self-esteem as distinct aspects of social identity in the organization,é British Journal of Social Psychology 39: 2000, pp. 555Ö577  o g e n b er g   S oc iet y a n d T h e A doles ce n t  Self-Image," Princeton, NJ, Princeton University Press 1965  h  an d Y  K. Ki m   A S t u d y o n th e Ef f ect o f  Sense of Community on the Brand Community Identification and Brand Attitude in Online Brand Community,é Marketing Management Research, Vol. 8, No 2, 2003, pp. 49-47  T U. Ki m  a n d C.K. Ki An E x ploratory  Study for Investigating Loyalty in On-line Games: Focus on Interactivity and the Sense of Presence,é Management Science, Vol. 22, No. 1, 2005, pp. 47-66  h oi, an d C  W  L ee  T h e R o les of Self-Expression and Identification on the Personal Community Commitment,é Korea Journal of Marketing Vol. 9, No. 3, 2007, pp. 117-149  N. Y ee  T h e De m o g r aph ics Motiv a tions an d Deriv e d  Experiences of Users of Massively Multi-user Online Graphical Environment," PRESENCE: Teleoperators and Virtual Environment, Vol. 15, 2006, pp. 309-329 40 O  Fe nic h e l   T he P s y c h o a na l y t i c the o r y o f  ne ur o s i s    New York: Norton, 1945  P  Obs t, an d K. Wh i t e A n E x ploration o f t h e  Interplay between Psychological Sense of Community Social Identification and Salience," Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology, 15, 2005, pp. 127-135  R  Dech ar m s  P e r s o n l cau s a tion  Ne w York   Academic Press, 1968  w ic k e r  J  B  Hittn er J  L  Harris, an d J  A  Herring   Relationships among internet use, personality, and social support," Computers in human behavior, 18, 2002, pp 437-451   L   L eavy   S ocial s u pport an d psy c h olog ica l  disorder: A review," Journal of Community Psychology, 11 1983, pp. 3-21   W h ite M otiv ation R eco n s idered: T h e con cept  of competence," Psychological Review, 66, 1959, pp 297-333   C  L ee, N.H. Ki m  J.Y Moon an d Y  H. S e o  T h e  Effect of Psychological Temptation, Site Quality and Sense of Community upon Online Game,é The Journal of MIS Research, Vol. 13, No. 4, 2003, pp. 207-227  o h e n  an d H. Hober m a n    P os iti v e ev e n ts a n d social supports as buffers of li fe stress,é Journal of applied social psychology, 13, 1983, pp. 99-125   S m it h  L  Zink ie w i cz, an d C  T  R y al l S en s e of Community: Yet another Group Identification? Australian Journal of Psychology, 51, 1999, p. 18  S.H. Kim A St u d y on An tecedents an d C o n s eq u e nts  of Identification: Online Gameé, e-Business Research, Vol 8, No. 2, 2007, pp. 185-206  S  R  Jo J  H. Moon E  J. Garrity an d G  L  S a n d ers   Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games MMORPGs\ and Commitment Behavior: An Integrated Model,é AMCIS, 2007   Y  Kim  an d Y  H. Joo  P erceiv e d In teractiv i t y a n d Web site Loyalty / On the Role of Flow as a Mediating Variable,é Korea Consumer Research, 12\(4\001, pp 185-208   P a rk an d S.H. Y u  T h e Ef f ect o f th e Sens e of On-line Community on Website Loyalty and Purchase Intention,é Korean Management Review, Vol. 32, No. 6 2003, pp. 1695-1713   T  A  W ills   S ocial s u pport an d th e f a m i l y  In E Blechman\(Ed.\otion and the family, Hillsdale, New Jersey: Erlbaum. 1990  54  T  P  Fr ank and S  Su gi ya m a   V ir tual I n ter n et  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Communities and Commercial Success: Individual and community-level theory grounded in the atypical case of TimeZone.Com," Journal of Management, 27, 2001, pp 297-312 55  T  R Gr a e ff  U sin g P r omo tio na l M e ssa ge s to M a n a g e  the Effect of Brand Self Image on Brand Evalution Journal of Consumer Marketing, 1996, 13, pp. 4-18  T  W   Bri g n a l l  a n d T  L  V  V a l e y   A n ol i n e co m m uni t y  as a new tribalism: The World of Warcraft," Proceedings of the 40 th Hawaii International Conference on System Science, Big Island, Hawaii, 2007   J. Y i an d S  A   L a  B ran d Pers on alit y  Bran d  Identification - Brand Equity Model : An Exploratory Study on the Difference Between Users vs. Non Ö Users Marketing Research, 17\(3\02, pp. 1-33  W i k e pedia M M ORP G \(h ttp://e n  w i k e pedia org/wiki/MMORPG   K. L ee, an d J.I K w o n   T h e Inf l u en ce of Appropriation and on Performance in Online Game Focusing on MMORPG The Journal of MIS Research Vol. 16, No. 4, 2006  W i k e pedia, th e Free En c y clopedia, MMOR P G   available in http:// en.wikipedia.org/ siki/MMORPG#Aca  demic_attention\, 2006  e De v e lopm e n t  Prom otio n Ins tit u t e   2006 The Rise of Korean Games 2006  w w  m m o rpg c h art.co m  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 10  Early Career Award for Scientists and  Engineers PECASE in 2000 He has been co investigator on the NASA/ ESA SOHO spacecraft and the CNES Picard mission Michael is a member of the IEEE Computer Society the Institute for Mathematical Statistics and AAAS  Jay Parker is a Senior Scientist in the Satellite Geodesy and Geodynamics group of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Ins titute of Technology His graduate research used computer simulations to explain mesospheric ionization response to solar flares and dynamic instabilities Dr Parker's research subjects at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory include a variety of topics in remote  sensing analysis and modeling  These include supercomputing algorithms for electromagnetic scattering and radiation satellite geodesy and finite element simulation for earthquake related deformation and ocean sensing through GPS signal reflection He i s currently the software engineer and co investigator for the QuakeSim project which has developed a solid Earth science framework including a variety of simulation and analysis tools He also develops the SEASCRAPE software system for high fidelity simul ation and parametric retrieval of atmospheric infrared spectrometry at Remote Sensing Analysis Systems Inc of Altadena CA Dr Parker is a member of the American Geophysical Union and co chair of the Data Understanding and Assimilation working group of t he APEC Cooperation for Earthquake Simulation   


 11 This model specifies that covariates act multiplicatively on time t r than on the hazar d function.  That is, we assume a baseline hazard function to exist and that the effects of the covariates are to alter the rate at which an individual proceeds along the time axis.  In other words, the covariates z accelerates or decelerates the time to failure Kalbfleisch and Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  It should be pointed out that the distribution-based regression models for exponential and Weibull distributions in the previous section are th e special cases of both PHM and AFT.  This correspondence is not necessarily true for models based on other distribu tions. Indeed, two-parameter Weibull distribution has the uniq ue property that it is closed under both multiplication of fa ilure time and multiplication of the hazard function by an arbitrary nonzero constant Lawless 2003, Kalbfleisch & Prentice 2002, Klein Moeschberger 2003  2.6. Counting Process and Survival Analysis   In the previous sections, we introduced censoring and survival analysis models th at can handle the censored information; however, we did not discuss how the censored information is processed.  Accommodating and maximally utilizing the partial information from the censored observations is the most challenging and also the most rewarding task in survival anal ysis.  This also establishes survival analysis as a unique fiel d in mathematical statistics Early statistical inferences for censored data in survival analysis were dependent on asymptotic likelihood theory Severini 2000\ Cox \(1972, 1975\ proposed partial likelihood as an extension to classical maximum likelihood estimation in the context of hi s proportional hazards model as a major contribution. Asymptotic likelihood has been and still is the dominant theory for developing survival analysis inference and hypothesis testing methods \(Klein and Moeschberger 2003, Severini 2000\. There are many monographs and textbooks of survival analysis containing sufficient details for applying survival analysis \(Cox and Oakes 1984, Kalbfleisch and Prentice 1980, 2002, Lawless 1982, 2003, Klein and Moeschberger, 2003\. A problem with traditional asymptotic lik elihood theory is that the resulting procedures can become very complicated when handling more complex censoring mechanisms \(Klein Moeschberger 2003\. A more elegant but requiring rigorous measure-theoretic probability theo ry is the approach with counting stochastic processes and the Martingale central limit theorems.  Indeed, this approach was used by Aalen 1975\ to set the rigorous mathematical foundation for survival analysis, and later further developed and summarized by Fleming and Harrington \(1991\, Andersen et al. \(1993\several research papers.  In reliability theory Aven and Jensen \(1999\ dem onstrated such an approach by developing a general failure model, which we briefly introduced in Section 1.2. However, the counting process and Martingale approach require measure theoretic treatments of probability and st ochastic processes, which is often not used in engineering or applied statistics.  A detailed introduction of the topic is obviously beyond the scope of this paper, and we only present a brief sketch of the most important concepts involved.  Readers are referred to the excellent monographs by Andersen et al. \(1993 Fleming and Harrington \(1991\ Aven and Jensen \(1999\ for comprehensive details, and Kal bfleisch and Prentice \(2002 Klein and Moeschberger \(2003\, Lawless \(2003\ for more applicationñoriented treatments The following discussion on this topic is drawn from Klein and Moeschberger \(2003  A counting stochastic process N  t  t 0 possesses the properties that N  0 ro and N  t   with probability one. The sample paths of N  t ht continuous and piecewise constant with jumps of size 1  step function In a right-censored sample, \(we assume only right censoring in this section N i  t  I  T i t  i   which keep the value 0 until individual i fails and then jump to 1  are counting processes. The accumulation of N i  t ocess     1 t N t N n i i is again a counting process, which counts the number of failures in the sample at or before time t   The counting process keeps track of the information on the occurrences of events,   for instance, the history information such as which individual was censored prior to time t and which individual died at or prior to time t as well as the covariates information This accumulated history information of the counting process at time t is termed filtration at time t denoted by F t For a given problem F t  rests on the observer of the counting process.  Thus, two observers with different recordings at different times will get different filtrations.  This is what Aven and Jensen 1999\ referred to as different information levels or the amount of actual available information about the state of a system may vary  If the failure times X i and censoring times C i  are independent,  then the probability of an event occurs at time t given the history just prior to t  F t\n be expressed as  t T if dt t h t C t X dt t C dt t X t P F dt t T t P i i i i i i r t i i r          1     t T if F dt t T t P i t i i r 0   1    51  Let dN  t be the change in the process N  t over a short time interval    t t t Ignoring the neglig ible chance of ties 1   t dN if a failure occurred and 0   t dN otherwise  Let Y  t denote the number of individuals with an observation time T i t Then the conditional expectation of dN  t   dt t h t Y F dt t C dt t X t with ns observatio of number E F t dN E t i i i t              52 


 12 The process  t  Y  t  h  t  is called the intensity process  of the counting process.  It is a stochastic process that is determined by the information contained in the history process F t via Y  t  Y  t  records the number of individuals experiencing the risk at a given time t   As it will become clear that   t is equivalent to the failure rate or hazard function in tr aditional reliability theory, but here it is treated as a stochastic process, the most general form one can assume for it. It is this generalization that encapsulates the power that counting stochastic process approach can offer to survival analysis  Let the cumulative intensity process H  t be defined as   t t ds s t H 0 0      53  It has the property that  E  N  t  F t  E  H  t  F t  H  t   54  This implies that filtration F t, is known, the value of Y  t  fixed and H  t es deterministic H  t is equivalent to the cumulative hazards in tr aditional reliability theory  A stochastic process with the property that its expectation at time t given history at time s < t is equal to its value at s is called a martingale That is M  t martingale if           t s s M F t M E s  55  It can be verified that the stochastic process         t H t N t M 56  is a martingale, and it is called the counting process martingale The increments of the counting process martingale have an expected value of zero, given its filtration F t That is  0      t F t dM E 57 The first part of the counting process martingale [Equation 56  N  t non-decreasing step function.  The second part H  t smooth process which is predictable in that its value at time t is fixed just prior to time t It is known as the compensator  of the counting process and is a random function. Therefore, the martingale can be considered as mean-zero noise and that is obtainable when one subtracts the smoothly varying compensator from the counting process  Another key component in the counting process and martingale theory for survival analysis is the notion of the predictable variation process of M  t oted by    t M It is defined as the compensator of process   2 t M  The term predictable variation process comes from the property that, for a martingale M  t it can be verified that the conditional variance of the increments of M  t  dM  t  h e inc r em ents of   t M That is          t M d F t dM Var t  58  To obtain      t F t dM Var  one needs the random variable N  t  variable with probability   t of having a jump of size 1 at time t The variance of N  t   t  1 t   since it follows b i nom ial distribution    Ignoring the ties in the censored data 2  t  is close to zero and Var  dM  t  F t    t  Y  t  h  t   This implies that the counting process N  t on the filtration F t behaves like a Poisson process with rate  t    Why do we need to convert the previous very intuitive concepts in survival analysis in to more abstract martingales The key is that many of the sta tistics in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of the basic martingales described above The stochastic integral equations are mathematically well structured and some standard mathematical techniques for studying them can be adopted  Here, let   t K be a predictable  process An example of a predictable process is the process   t Y Over the interval 0 to t the stochastic integral of su ch a process, with respect to a martingale, is denoted by     0 u dM u K t It turns out that such stochastic integrals them selves are martingales as a function of t and their predictable variation process can be found from the predictable variation process of the original martingale by           0 2 0 u M d u K u dM u K t t 59 The above discussion was drawn from Klein and Moeschberger \(2003 also provide examples of how the above process is applied. In the following, we briefly introduce one of their exampl es ó the derivation of the Nelson-Aalen cumulative hazard estimator  First, the model is formulated as           t dM dt t h t Y t dN  60  If   t Y is non-zero, then               t Y t dM t d t h t Y t dN 61  Let   t I be the indicator of whether   t Y  is positive and define 0/0 = 0, then integrating both sides of above \(61 One get 


 13                     0 0 0 u dM u Y u I u d u h u I u dN u Y u I t t t 62  The left side integral is the Nelson-Aalen estimator of H t           0  u dN u Y u I t H t 63  The second integral on the right side           0 u dM u Y u I t W t 64  is the stochastic integral of the predictable process      u Y u I with respect to a martingale, and hence is also a martingale  The first integral on the right side is a random quantity    t H   t du u h u I t H 0        65  For right-censored data it is equal to   t H  in the data range, if the stochastic uncertainty in the   t W is negligible Therefore, the statistic    t H is a nonparametric estimator of the random quantity    t H   We would like to mention one more advantage of the new approach, that is, the martingale central limit theorem.  The central limit theorem of martingales ensures certain convergence property and allows the derivations of confidence intervals for many st atistics.  In summary, most of the statistics developed with asymptotic likelihood theory in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of some martingale.  The large sample properties of the statistics can be found by using the predictable variation process and martingale central limit theorem \(Klein and Moeschberger \(2003  2.7. Bayesian Survival Analysis  Like many other fields of statistics, survival analysis has also witnessed the rapid expansion of the Bayesian paradigm.  The introduction of the full-scale Bayesian paradigm is relative recent and occurred in the last decade however, the "invasion" has been thorough.  Until the recent publication of a monograph by Ibrahim, Chen and Sinhaet 2005\val anal ysis has been either missing or occupy at most one chapter in most survival analysis monographs and textbooks.  Ibrahim's et al. \(2005\ changed the landscape, with their comprehensive discussion of nearly every counterp arts of frequentist survival analysis from univariate to multivariate, from nonparametric, semiparametric to parametric models, from proportional to nonproportional hazards models, as well as the joint model of longitudinal and survival data.  It should be pointed out that Bayesian survival analysis has been studied for quite a while and can be traced back at least to the 1970s  A natural but fair question is what advantages the Bayesian approach can offer over the established frequentist survival analysis. Ibrahim et al 2005\entified two key advantages. First, survival models are generally very difficult to fit, due to the complex likelihood functions to accommodate censoring.  A Bayesi an approach may help by using the MCMC techniques and there is available software e.g., BUGS.  Second, the Bayesian paradigm can incorporate prior information in a natural way by using historical information, e.g., from clinical trials. The following discussion in this subsection draws from Ibrahim's et al. \(2005  The Bayesian paradigm is based on specifying a probability model for the observed data, given a vector of unknown parameters This leads to likelihood function L   D   Unlike in traditional statistics is treated as random and has a prior distribution denoted by   Inference concerning is then based on the posterior distribution which can be computed by Bayes theorem d D L D L D              66 where is the parameter space  The term    D is proportional to the likelihood    D L  which is the information from observed data, multiplied by the prior, which is quantified by   i.e          D L D 67 The denominator integral m  D s the normalizing constant of    D and often does not have an analytic closed form Therefore    D often has to be computed numerically The Gibbs sampler or other MCMC algorithms can be used to sample    D without knowing the normalizing constant m  D xist large amount of literature for solving the computational problems of m  D nd    D   Given that the general Bayesian algorithms for computing the posterior distributions should equally apply to Bayesian survival analysis, the specification or elicitation of informative prior needs much of the atte ntion.  In survival analysis with covariates such as Cox's proportional hazards model, the most popular choice of informative prior is the normal prior, and the most popular choice for noninformative is the uniform Non-informative prior is easy to use but they cannot be used in all applications, such as model selection or model comparison. Moreover, noninformative prior does not harness the real prior information. Therefore, res earch for informative prior specification is crucial for Bayesian survival analysis  


 14 Reliability estimation is influenced by the level of information available such as information on components or sub-systems. Bayesians approach is likely to provide such flexibility to accommodate various levels of information Graves and Hamada \(2005\roduced the YADAS a statistical modeling environment that implements the Bayesian hierarchical modeli ng via MCMC computation They showed the applications of YADES in reliability modeling and its flexibility in processing hierarchical information. Although this environment seems not designed with Bayesian surviv al analysis, similar package may be the direction if Bayesian survival analysis is applied to reliability modeling  2.8. Spatial Survival Analysis  To the best of our knowledge spatial survival analysis is an uncharted area, and there has been no spatial survival analysis reported with rigor ous mathematical treatment There are some applications of survival analysis to spatial data; however, they do not address the spatial process which in our opinion should be the essential aspect of any spatial survival analysis. To develop formal spatial survival analysis, one has to define the spatial process first  Recall, for survival analysis in the time domain, there is survival function   R t t T t S  Pr   68  where T is the random variable and S  t e cumulative probability that the lifetime will exceed time t In spatial domain, what is the counterpart of t One may wonder why do not we simply define the survival function in the spatial domain as   S  s  Pr S s  s R d  R > 0  69  where s is some metric for d-dimensional space R d and the space is restricted to the positive region S is the space to event measurement, e.g., the distance from some origin where we detect some point object.  The problem is that the metric itself is an attribute of space, rather than space itself Therefore, it appears to us that the basic entity for studying the space domain has to be broader than in the time domain This is probably why spatial process seems to be a more appropriate entity for studying  The following is a summary of descriptions of spatial processes and patterns, which intends to show the complexity of the issues involved.  It is not an attempt to define the similar survival function in spatial domain because we certainly unders tand the huge complexity involved. There are several monographs discussing the spatial process and patterns \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\.  The following discussion heavily draws from Cressie \(1993\ and Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  It appears that the most widely adopted definition for spatial process is proposed in Cressie \(1993\, which defines a spatial process Z  s in d-dimensions as    Z  s  s D R d  70  Here Z  s denotes the attributes we observe, which are space dependent. When d = 2 the space R 2 is a plane  The problem is how to define randomness in this process According to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005 Z  s an be thought of as located \(indexed\by spatial coordinates s  s 1  s 2  s n  the counterpart of time series Y  t  t   t 1  t 2  t n   indexed by time.  The spatial process is often called random field   To be more explicit, we denote Z  s  Z  s   to emphasize that Z is the outcome of a random experiment  A particular realization of produces a surface    s Z  Because the surface from whic h the samples are drawn is the result of the random experiment Z  s called a random function  One might ask what is a random experiment like in a spatial domain? Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\ offered an imaginary example briefly described below.  Imagine pouring sand from a bucket on to a desktop surface, and one is interested in measuring the depth of the poured sand at various locations, denoted as Z  s The sand distributes on the surface according to the laws of physics.  With enough resources and patience, one can develop a deterministic model to predict exactly how the sand grains are distributed on the desktop surface.  This is the same argument used to determine the head-tail coin flipping experiment, which is well accepted in statistical scie nce. The probabilistic coinflip model is more parsimonious than the deterministic model that rests on the exact \(perfect\but hardly feasible representation of a coin's physics. Similarly deterministically modeling the placement of sand grains is equally daunting.  However, th e issue here is not placement of sand as a random event, as Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\phasized.  The issue is that the sand was poured only once regardless how many locations one measures the depth of the sand.  With that setting, the challenge is how do we define and compute the expectation of the random function Z  s Would E  Z  s   s  make sense  Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\further raised the questions: \(1\to what distribution is the expectation being computed? \(2\ if the random experiment of sand pouring can only be counted once, ho w can the expectation be the long-term average  According to the definition of expectation in traditional statistics, one should repeat the process of sand pouring many times and consider the probability distributions of all surfaces generated from the repetitions to compute the expectation of Z  s is complication is much more serious 


 15 than what we may often reali ze. Especially, in practice many spatial data is obtained from one time space sample only. There is not any independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  How is the enormous complexity in spatial statistics currently dealt with? The most commonly used simplification, which has also been vigorously criticized, is the stationarity assumption.  Opponents claim that stationarity often leads to erroneous inferences and conclusions.  Proponents counte r-argue that little progress can be made in the study of non-stationary process, without a good understanding of the stationary issues Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  The strict stationarity is a random field whose spatial distribution is invariant under translation of the coordination.  In other word s, the process repeats itself throughout its domain \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005 There is also a second-order or weak\ of a random field  For random fields in the spatial domain, the model of Equation \(70  Z  s  s D R d  is still too general to allow statistical inference.  It can be decomposed into several sub-processes \(Cressie 1993             s s s W s s Z  D s  71  where  s  E  Z  is a deterministic mean structure called large-scale variation W  s is the zero-mean intrinsically stationary process, \(with second order derivative\nd it is called smooth small-scale variation   s is the zero-mean stationary process independent of W  s and is called microscale variation  s  is zero-mean white noise also called measurement error. This decomposition is not unique and is largely operational in nature \(Cressie 1993\he main task of a spatial algorithm is to determine the allocations of the large, small, and microscale components However, the form of the above equation is fixed Cressie 1993\, implying that it is not appropriate to sub-divide one or more of the items. Therefore, the key issue here is to obtain the deterministic  s  but in practice, especially with limited data, it is usually very difficult to get a unique  s   Alternative to the spatial domain decomposition approach the frequency domain methods or spectral analysis used in time series analysis can also be used in spatial statistics Again, one may refer to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  So, what are the imp lications of the general discussion on spatial process above to spatial survival analysis?  One point is clear, Equation \(69 S  s  Pr S s   s R d is simply too naive to be meaningful.  There seem, at least, four fundamental challenges when trying to develop survival analysis in space domain. \(1\ process is often multidimensional, while time pr ocess can always be treated as uni-dimensional in the sense that it can be represented as  Z  t  t R 1  The multidimensionality certainly introduces additional complications, but that is still not the only complication, perhaps not even the most significant 2\One of the fundamental complications is the frequent lack of independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process, as pointed out by Cressie \(1993\\(3\e superposition of \(1 and \(2\brings up even more complexity, since coordinates  s of each replication are a set of stochastic spatial process rather than a set of random variables. \(4\n if the modeling of the spatial process is separable from the time process, it is doubtful how useful the resulting model will be.  In time process modeling, if a population lives in a homogenous environment, the space can be condensed as a single point.  However, the freezing of time seems to leave out too much information, at least for survival analysis Since the traditional survival analysis is essentially a time process, therefore, it should be expanded to incorporate spatial coordinates into original survival function.  For example, when integrating space and time, one gets a spacetime process, such as          R t R D s t s Z d   where s is the spatial index \(coordinate t is time.  We may define the spatial-temporal survival function as   S  s  t  Pr T t  s D  72  where D is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidean space That is, the spatial-temporal survival function represents the cumulative probability that an individual will survive up to time T within hyperspace D which is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidian space.  One may define different scales for D or even divide D into a number of unit hyperspaces of measurement 1 unit  2.9. Survival Analysis and Artificial Neural Network   In the discussion on artificial neuron networks \(ANN Robert & Casella \(2004\noted, "Baring the biological vocabulary and the idealistic connection with actual neurons, the theory of neuron networks covers: \(1\odeling nonlinear relations between explanatory and dependent explained\ariables; \(2\mation of the parameters of these models based on a \(training\ sample."  Although Robert & Casella \(2004\ did not mentioned survival analysis, their notion indeed strike us in that the two points are also the essence of Cox s \(1972\roportional Hazards model  We argue that the dissimilarity might be superficial.  One of the most obvious differences is that ANN usually avoids probabilistic modeling, however, the ANN models can be analyzed and estimated from a statistical point of view, as demonstrated by Neal \(1999\, Ripley \(1994\, \(1996 Robert & Casella \(2004\What is more interesting is that the most hailed feature of ANN, i.e., the identifiability of model structure, if one review carefully, is very similar to the work done in survival anal ysis for the structure of the 


 16 Cox proportional hazards model. The multilayer ANN model, also known as back-propagation ANN model, is again very similar to the stratified proportional hazards model  There are at least two advantages of survival analysis over the ANN.  \(1\val analysis has a rigorous mathematical foundation. Counting stochastic processes and the Martingale central limit theory form the survival analysis models as stochastic integral s, which provide insight for analytic solutions. \(2\ ANN, simulation is usually necessary \(Robert & Casella \(2004\which is not the case in survival analysis  Our conjecture may explain a very interesting phenomenon Several studies have tried to integrate ANN with survival analysis.  As reviewed in the next section, few of the integrated survival analysis and ANN made significant difference in terms of model fittings, compared with the native survival analysis alone The indifference shows that both approaches do not complement each other.  If they are essentially different, the inte grated approach should produce some results that are signifi cantly different from the pure survival analysis alone, either positively or negatively Again, we emphasize that our discussion is still a pure conjecture at this stage   3   B RIEF C ASE R EVIEW OF S URVIVAL A NALYSIS A PPLICATIONS     3.1. Applications Found in IEEE Digital Library  In this section, we briefly review the papers found in the IEEE digital library w ith the keyword of survival analysis  search. The online search was conducted in the July of 2007, and we found about 40 papers in total. There were a few biomedical studies among the 40 survival-analysis papers published in IEEE publications. These are largely standard biomedical applications and we do not discuss these papers, for obvious reasons  Mazzuchi et al. \(1989\m ed to be the first to actively  advocate the use of Cox's \(1 972\ proportional hazards model \(PHM\in engineering re liability.  They quoted Cox's 1972\ original words industrial reliability studies and medical studies to show Cox's original motivation Mazzuchi et al \(1989 while this model had a significant impact on the biom edical field, it has received little attention in the reliability literature Nearly two decades after the introducti on paper of Mazzuchi et al 1989\ears that little significant changes have occurred in computer science and IEEE related engineering fields with regard to the proportional hazards models and survival analysis as a whole  Stillman et al. \(1995\used survival analysis to analyze the data for component maintenance and replacement programs Reineke et al. \(1998 ducted a similar study for determining the optimal maintenance by simulating a series system of four components Berzuini and Larizza \(1996 integrated time-series modeling with survival analysis for medical monitoring.  Kauffman and Wang \(2002\analyzed the Internet firm su rvival data from IPO \(initial public offer to business shutdown events, with survival analysis models  Among the 40 survival analysis papers, which we obtained from online search of the IEEE digital library, significant percentage is the integration of survival analysis with artificial neural networks \(ANN In many of these studies the objective was to utilize ANN to modeling fitting or parameter estimation for survival analysis.  The following is an incomplete list of the major ANN survival analysis integration papers found in IEEE digital library, Arsene et 2006 Eleuteri et al. \(2003\oa and Wong \(2001\,  Mani et al 1999\ The parameter estimation in survival analysis is particular complex due to the requirements for processing censored observations. Therefore, approach such as ANN and Bayesian statistics may be helpful to deal with the complexity. Indeed, Bayesian survival analysis has been expanded significantly in recent years \(Ibrahim, et al. 2005  We expect that evolutionary computing will be applied to survival analysis, in similar way to ANN and Bayesian approaches  With regard to the application of ANN to survival analysis we suggest three cautions: \(1\he integrated approach should preserve the capability to process censoring otherwise, survival analysis loses its most significant advantage. \(2\ Caution should be taken when the integrated approach changes model struct ure because most survival analysis models, such as Cox's proportional hazards models and accelerated failure time models, are already complex nonlinear models with built-in failure mechanisms.  The model over-fitting may cause model identifiability  problems, which could be very subtle and hard to resolve 3\he integrated approach does not produce significant improvement in terms of model fitting or other measurements, which seemed to be the case in majority of the ANN approach to survival analysis, then the extra complication should certainly be avoided. Even if there is improvement, one should still take caution with the censor handling and model identifiability issues previously mentioned in \(1\ and \(2  3.2. Selected Papers Found in MMR-2004  In the following, we briefly review a few survival analysis related studies presented in a recent International Conference on Mathematical Methods in Reliability, MMR 2004 \(Wilson et al. 2005  Pena and Slate \(2005\ddressed the dynamic reliability Both reliability and survival times are more realistically described with dynamic models. Dynamic models generally refer to the models that incorporate the impact of actions or interventions as well as thei r accumulative history, which 


 17 can be monitored \(Pena and Slate 2005\he complexity is obviously beyond simple regression models, since the dependence can play a crucial ro le. For example, in a loadsharing network system, failure of a node will increase the loads of other nodes and influences their failures  Duchesne \(2005\uggested incorporating usage accumulation information into the regression models in survival analysis.  To simplify the model building Duchesne \(2005\umes that the usage can be represented with a single time-dependent covariate.  Besides reviewing the hazard-based regression models, which are common in survival analysis, Duchesne 2005\viewed three classes of less commonly used regression models: models based on transfer functionals, models based on internal wear and the so-called collapsible models. The significance of these regression models is that they expand reliability modeling to two dimensions. One dimension is the calendar time and the other is the usage accumulation.  Jin \(2005\ reviewed the recent development in statisti cal inference for accelerated failure time \(AFT\odel and the linear transformation models that include Cox proportional hazards model and proportional odds models as special cases. Two approaches rank-based approach and l east-squares approach were reviewed in Jin \(2005\. Osbo rn \(2005\d a case study of utilizing the remote diagnostic data from embedded sensors to predict system aging or degradation.  This example should indicate the potential of survival analysis and competing risks analysis in the prognostic and health management PHM\ since the problem Osborn \(2005 addressed is very similar to PHM. The uses of embedded sensors to monitor the health of complex systems, such as power plants, automobile, medical equipment, and aircraft engine, are common. The main uses for these sensor data are real time assessment of th e system health and detection of the problems that need immediate attention.  Of interest is the utilization of those remote diagnostic data, in combination with historical reliability data, for modeling the system aging or degradation. The biggest challenge with this task is the proper transformation of wear  time The wear is not only influenced by internal \(temperature, oil pressures etc\xternal covariates ambient temperature, air pressure, etc\, but also different each time   4  S UMMARY AND P ERSPECTIVE   4.1. Summary  Despite the common foundation with traditional reliability theory, such as the same probability definitions for survival function  S  t  and reliability  R  t  i.e  S  t  R  t well as the hazards function the exact same term and definition are used in both fields\rvival analysis has not achieved similar success in the field of reliability as in biomedicine The applications of survival analysis seem still largely limited to the domain of biomedicine.  Even in the sister fields of biomedicine such as biology and ecology, few applications have been conducted \(Ma 1997, Ma and Bechinski 2008\ the engin eering fields, the Meeker and Escobar \(1998\ monograph, as well as the Klein and Goel 1992\ to be the most comprehensive treatments  In Section 2, we reviewed the essential concepts and models of survival analysis. In Section 3, we briefly reviewed some application cases of survival analysis in engineering reliability.  In computer science, survival analysis seems to be still largely unknown.  We believe that the potential of survival analysis in computer science is much broader than network and/or software reliability alone. Before suggesting a few research topics, we no te two additional points  First, in this article, we exclusively focused on univariate survival analysis. There are two other related fields: one is competing risks analysis and the other is multivariate survival analysis The relationship between multivariate survival analysis and survival analysis is similar to that between multivariate statistical analysis and mathematical statistics.  The difference is that the extension from univariate to multivariate in survival analysis has been much more difficult than the developm ent of multivariate analysis because of \(1\rvation cens oring, and \(2\pendency which is much more complex when multivariate normal distribution does not hold in survival data.  On the other hand, the two essential differences indeed make multivariate survival analysis unique and ex tremely useful for analyzing and modeling time-to-event data. In particular, the advantages of multivariate survival analysis in addressing the dependency issue are hardly matched by any other statistical method.  We discuss competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis in separate articles \(Ma and Krings 2008a, b, & c  The second point we wish to note is: if we are asked to point out the counterpart of survival analysis model in reliability theory, we would suggest the shock or damage model.   The shock model has an even longer history than survival analysis and the simplest shock model is the Poisson process model that leads to exponential failure rate model The basic assumption of the shock model is the notion that engineered systems endure some type of wear, fatigue or damage, which leads to the failure when the strengths exceed the tolerance limits of th e system \(Nakagawa 2006 There are extensive research papers on shock models in the probability theory literature, but relatively few monographs The monograph by Nakagawa \(2006\s to be the latest The shock model is often formulated as a Renewal stochastic process or point process with Martingale theory The rigorous mathematical derivation is very similar to that of survival analysis from counting stochastic processes  which we briefly outlined in section 2.6  It is beyond the scope of the paper to compare the shock model with survival analysis; however, we would like to make the two specific comments. \(1\Shock models are essentially the stochastic process model to capture the failure mechanism based on the damage induced on the system by shocks, and the resulting statistical models are 


 18 often the traditional reliability distribution models such as exponential and Weibull failure distributions.  Survival analysis does not depend on specific shock or damage Instead, it models the failure with abstract time-to-event random variables.  Less restrictive assumptions with survival analysis might be more useful for modeling software reliability where the notions of fatigue, wear and damage apparently do not apply.  \(2\hock models do not deal with information censoring, the trademark of failure time data.  \(3\ Shock models, perhaps due to mathematical complexity, have not been applied widely in engineering reliability yet.  In contrast, the applications of survival analysis in biomedical fields are much extensive.  While there have been about a dozen monographs on survival analysis available, few books on shock models have been published.  We believe that survival analysis and shock models are complementary, a nd both are very needed for reliability analysis, with shock model more focused on failure mechanisms and the survival analysis on data analysis and modeling  4.2. Perspective   Besides traditional industrial and hardware reliability fields we suggest that the following fields may benefit from survival analysis  Software reliability Survival analysis is not based on the assumptions of wear, fatigue, or damage, as in traditional reliability theory.  This seems close to software reliability paradigm. The single biggest challenge in applying above discussed approaches to softwa re systems is the requirement for a new metric that is able to replace the survival time variable in survival analysis. This "time" counterpart needs to be capable of characterizing the "vulnerability" of software components or the system, or the distance to the next failure event. In other words, this software metric should represent the metric-to-event, similar to time-toevent random variable in survival analysis.  We suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(Li and Vitanyi 1997\n be a promising candidate. Once the metric-to-event issue is resolved, survival analysis, both univariate and multivariate survival analysis can be applied in a relative straightforward manner. We suggest that the shared frailty models are most promising because we believ e latent behavior can be captured with the shared fra ilty \(Ma and Krings 2008b  There have been a few applications of univariate survival analysis in software reliability modeling, including examples in Andersen et al.'s \(1995\ classical monograph However, our opinion is that without the fundamental shift from time-to-event to new metric-to-event, the success will be very limited. In software engineering, there is an exception to our claim, which is the field of software test modeling, where time variable may be directly used in survival analysis modeling  Modeling Survivability of Computer Networks As described in Subsection 2.3, random censoring may be used to model network survivability.  This modeling scheme is particularly suitable for wireless sensor network, because 1\ of the population nature of wireless nodes and \(2\ the limited lifetime of the wireless nodes.  Survival analysis has been advanced by the needs in biomedical and public health research where population is th e basic unit of observation As stated early, a sensor networ k is analogically similar to a biological population. Furthermore, both organisms and wireless nodes are of limited lifetimes. A very desirable advantage of survival analysis is that one can develop a unified mathematical model for both the reliability and survivability of a wireless sensor network \(Krings and Ma 2006  Prognostic and Health Management in Military Logistics PHM involves extensive modeling analysis related to reliability, life predictions, failure analysis, burnin elimination and testing, quality control modeling, etc Survival analysis may provide very promising new tools Survival analysis should be able to provide alternatives to the currently used mathematical tools such as ANN, genetic algorithms, and Fuzzy logic.  The advantage of survival analysis over the other alternatives lies in its unique capability to handle information censoring.  In PHM and other logistics management modeling, information censoring is a near universal phenomenon. Survival analysis should provide new insights and modeling solutions   5  R EFERENCES   Aalen, O. O. 1975. Statistical inference for a family of counting process. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Berkeley  Andersen, P. K., O. Borgan, R D. Gill, N. Keiding. 1993 Statistical Models based on Counting Process. Springer  Arsene, C. T. C., et al. 2006.  A Bayesian Neural Network for Competing Risks Models with Covariates. MEDSIP 2006. Proc. of IET 3rd International Conference On Advances in Medical, Signal and Info. 17-19 July 2006  Aven, T. and U. Jensen. 1999. Stochastic Models in Reliability. Springer, Berlin  Bazovsky, I. 1961. Reliability Theory and Practice Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey  Bakker, B. and T.  Heskes. 1999. A neural-Bayesian approach to survival analysis. IEE Artificial Neural Networks, Sept. 7-10, 1999. Conference Publication No 470. pp832-837  Berzuini, C.  and C. Larizza 1996. A unified approach for modeling longitudinal and failure time data, with application in medical mon itoring. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. Vol. 18\(2 123 


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


