Analyzing Topic Drift in Query Expansion for Information Retrieval from a Large-scale Patent DataBase Bashar Al-Shboul Department of Business Information Technology King Abdullah II School for Information Technology The University of Jordan Amman, Jordan bashar.shboul@gmail.com Sung-Hyon Myaeng Division of Web Science Department of Computer Science Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology Daejeon, South Korea myaeng@kaist.ac.kr Abstract 227Topic drift has been recognized as a major reason for ineffective retrieval of documents using query expansion Topic drift is very important in patent domain as document processing is dependable on the 
quality of the search. With the huge amount of available patents we investigate on the concept of topic drift in patent domain by analyzing the topi cs of retrieval results obtainable with query ex pansion. We define and utilize topic attributes to distinguish drifting topics from other topic classes such as Vanishing, Appearing, and Rising Topics. As a result, this analysis can be used to compare two different query expansion methods for their relative effectiveness Keywords\227Topic Drift, Topic Sc ope Focus, Rising Topics Drifting Topics I I 
NTRODUCTION Query Expansion \(QE\is one of the well-known techniques to enhance effectiveness in Information Retrieval \(IR\d plays the role of disambiguating the context of a user query and moving the original query toward the real intent. While QE is considered an important technique in IR, it suffers the problem of topic drift, that is, the change in the query\222s topic to an unintended direction after QE. It is argued that topic drift in QE methods is caused by erroneous extraction of  additional query term bi ased q u ery t e rm wei ght i ng m e t hod [2   bi ased retrieval model [1   o r  t h e i r  c o m b i n a t i o n s  Previous studies have tried to reduce the effect of topic drift 
by proposing different methods for predicting the query effectiveness [5 r b y estimat in g th e quer y d r i ft 1 2  Th is work is different in that it focuses on understanding the reasons behind the general notion of topic drift instead of predicting the query effectiveness, and also showing the drifting topics rather than estimating the query drift. Furthermore, it is different in that previous works predict the query drift/effectiveness depending on the retrieved documents from searching using the query [1   i n stead we st udy  the query  dri ft  b a sed on t h e t o p i cs in the retrieved documents A common method of showing the reduction of topic drift caused by a QE method is through enhanced precision and 
recall Whi l e so m e  previ o us st udi es m e nt i oned t h e problem of topic drift as a reason behind ineffective retrieval after QE, and generally, but vague ly, indicate that it happens no one to the best of our knowledge has shown what actually happens in QE in terms of topical changes and how they can be characterized The aim of our work is to do an in-depth study of the topic drift problem by developing a method for analyzing the topics of retrieval results before and after QE and understanding the relationship between QE and topical changes Motivated by the absence of an in-depth study that 
investigates the relationship between topic drift and QE, and the absence of methods for showing driftness within queries the major contribution of this work is to define then measure topic attributes \(i.e. Topic Effectiveness, Topic Scope Focus use them to distinguish drifting topics, among the expanded queries, from other topic classes \(i.e. Vanishing, Appearing and Rising Topics\d then study their influence on the retrieval effectiveness To address the problem of topic drift, we aim at identifying the drifting topics among the expanded queries topics. First similarity between original qu ery topics and expanded query topics are measured, then used to identify several topic classes such as topics similar to each othe r \(i.e. coherent 
topics\topics that appear among the expanded query topics while absent among the original query topics \(i.e. appearing topics\and topics that appear among the original query topics; however absent among the expanded query topics \(i.e. vanishing topics Further, topic attributes are preliminarily m easured then utilized to define more detailed topic classes such as focused rising topics \(i.e. specific topics that may improve the query effectiveness\, broad rising topics \(i.e. general topics that may enhance effectiveness\drif ting topics \(i.e. topics that cause the query topic drift 
Generally, topic effectiveness represents the retrieval effectiv eness of the topic query \(i.e. a query generated from all the topic terms\le topic scope focus measures the topic terms cohesiveness and the topic distinguishability from other topics In patent search, topic drift is considered a serious problem due to the high dependability of patent processing according to the quality of the search. Motivated by the high importance of search in patent domain  prop osed an a u t o m a t i c QE m e tho d  that improved the effectiveness by semantically expanding 177 


query phrases for Patent Cla ss Search \(i.e. searching for relevant patent classes and assign them to the query patent While our main purpose of this work is not devising a new QE method, we compare queries extracted and then expanded from patents using a phrase-based QE method \(i.e. WQPE\, and Relevance-based Language Model \(RM\, a state-of-the-art word-based QE method [10 By usi ng WQPE we ai m at studying the effect of semantically expanding queries using phrases from Wikipedia, and their effect on the topic drift. On the other hand, comparisons are made against RM because it is one of the heavily researched techniques in QE, and it has often been used as a comparison benchmark [9  A u n i que  characteristic of patent documents is the manual assignment of individual document to one or more classes from IPC International Patent Classifications\ has a hierarchy of four levels \(Section, Class, Sub-Class \(SC\ and Group\with the \223section\224 being the most general 1 The group level can be divided into two main categories: Sub-Group \(SG\ and Main Group \(MG\In this work, we chose to use SC, MG, and SG to represent semantic classes and evaluate the proposed method For example, when a patent is assigned to the IPC \223G06F 17/30\224, its SC, MG, and SG are \223G06F\224, \223G06F 17\224, and 223G06F 17/30\224, respectively. A group of patents belonging to a class are said to be relevant to each other at different levels of abstraction. The existence of th e IPC hierarchy allows us to study generalization/specialization of queries. The retrieval task is thus to classify patents to those classes of the query as closely as possible, and the proposed query expansion approaches \(i.e. WQPE and RM were formally tested on the US Patent & Trademark Office \(USPTO\patents provided for several NTCIR 2 tasks This paper is organized as follows. In section 2 we list related work. Proposed methods are described in section 3. In section 4 evaluation and experimental results are discussed Finally, we conclude with section 5 II R ELATED W ORK Much research has discussed the topic drift problem in QE by referring to it as a reason for ineffective retrieval [2, 1, 14   Studies have tried to reduce the effect of topic drift by proposing different query performance prediction methods for predicting the query effectiveness pre-/post-retrieval [5 y  estimating the query drift [12 General l y predi c t i on m e t hods  depend on scoring queries in di fferent aspects according to the query terms and their probabilities or statistics in the collection or the retrieved document set \(i.e. Clarit R o b u st ness 15   e t c     5   In t o pi c dr i f t i s  m easured t h ro ug h di ver g ence bet w een  timely grouped documents. Our work is different in that topic drift is not defined differently from this work \(i.e. in this work topic drift is defined as topical changes over time Other works concentrated on estimating topic drift in expanded queries as in  M a i n l y  i t i s assum e d t h at a h i gh deviation in retrieval scores between the retrieved sets from an initial query and its expanded version is correlated to the  1 http://www.wipo.int/export/sites/www classifications/ipc/en/guide 2 http://research.n ii.ac.jp/ntcir reduction in topic drift. This work is different in that we focus on understanding the reasons behind the topic drift, and investigating the behavior of QE methods in causing queries to drift topics rather than esti mating drift amount according to retrieved set of documents In [1 t opi c dri ft i s  i n t roduc ed i n expan d i n g queri es usi n g  expert profiles. Given a query, a set of ranked experts are selected to enrich the query with terms from their profiles \(i.e using terms in their research interests\d then run the query again to retrieve another ranked list of experts. Topic drift is measured in expert profiles through \223cohesiveness\224 trying to predict the number of various expertise contained in the expert profile, and then decide which ones to use as candidate expansion terms. This attempt can be considered as a pseudorelevance feedback like method of QE utilizing some parts of retrieved expert profiles after predicting their relevant expertise. Our work is different in that our intentions are not devising a new QE method, and that our goal is to study the effect of the existing QE methods on the topics generated of the retrieval set, in addition to studying the effect of the selected expansion terms on enhancing effectiveness III P ROPOSED M ETHODS A topic in our work is defined as a set of words describing a piece of coherent information. In this section we describe the method with which topics are extracted from the original query i.e. a patent document\and the expanded query. After that is a description of a method for similarity calculation between topics generated before and after QE so that we can identify vanishing and appearing topics. In addition, we define two attributes of a topic, Scope Focus and Effectiveness, by which an appearing topic can be further classified into drifting and rising topics A Generating Topics In order to generate topics from a query, we employ Hierarchical Dirichlet Process HDP\ [1  a very well-k n o wn  method of identifying topics from a document collection. It is an extension of Latent Dirichlet Allocation \(LDA\[4 th at  assumes a set of documents consist of several themes \(i.e topics\ch are obscured by word-choice noise, and finds topic distributions over a document and term distributions over topics in a document. While LDA has been used for various applications, it suffers from a major problem of having to decide the number of topics a priori. In HDP, however, the number of topics is generated automatically. Additionally HDP adopts the assumption that documents share one discrete distribution that can be viewed, in our case, as a very general topic with incoherent terms while the sub-distributions of it are sampled in such a way that each topic terms are distributed according to a Dirich let distribution Since a patent used as a query may not be long enough to apply HDP, we first extend it by finding its IPCs and collecting the patent documents belonging to them to form a document pool that represent the query. This process makes sense because the IPCs represent the semantics of the query patent and the documents having the same IPCs can be considered belonging to the same semantic categories. We call the result Original Query Topics \(OQTs In order to analyze what 178 


topical changes are made by an expanded query, on the other hand, we generate Expanded Quer y Topics \(EQTs\by applying HDP to the set of documents retrieved by the expanded query We applied HDP to the retrieved documents because it was not possible to identify IPCs from the expanded query per se, nor amenable to apply HDP direct ly to the expanded query Currently, the only complete relevance judgment for evaluating effectiveness in patent domain is by using IPCs therefore a method assigning IPCs to topics have to be proposed in order to find a way to evaluate topics. In our work IPC-to-Topic assignment takes the form of ranked list of IPCs returned from searching usi ng a topic query \(i.e. a query generated from all the topic terms\ ranked IPCs among the retrieved patents of the topic query are assigned for the topic B Similarity While several topic similarity/dissimilarity methods have been proposed in the past su ch as KL-Divergence, Cosine Similarity, Jaccard\222s Coefficient we opt for JS-Divergence that has shown its superiority in measuring topic similarity over others. As a word-based topic similarity method dissimilarity between two topics in JS-Divergence is given by       where    where t 1 and t 2 are topics, KL represents the KullbackLeibler Divergence between two probability distributions P and Q given as    3 Due to the frequent use of non-identical but synonymous terms in patent documents, using words alone is likely to measure dissimilarity between topics incorrectly,  that is, some topics may contain similar but synonymous terms, and yet be considered dissimilar. Thus, we have proposed another method for topic dissimilarity that includes IPCs. The goal is to detect the dissimilarity between the topics on a semantic level \(i.e IPCs\in addition to the syntactic dissimilarity \(i.e. terms A possible way of measuring similarity between topics is utilizing IPCs assigned per topic; hence, measuring the similarity between two ranked lists of IPCs. IPC similarity for two IPC lists: IPCList 1 and IPCList 2 assigned per topics t 1 and t 2 respectively is given by          where n = |IPCList 1 Pr\(i is precision at rank i, rel\(i is an indicator function returning 1 if the IPC at rank i in the IPCList 1 is in IPCList 2 and 0 otherwise Count\(rel returns the total count of relevant IPCs in the IPCList 1  RelDocs\(i returns set of relevant IPCs up to rank i  RetDocs\(i returns set of retrieved IPCs up to rank i An important condition for measuring this similarity is that both lists belong to the same IPC-Level \(i.e. Sub-Class \(SC\ain Group \(MG\SubGroup \(SG Considering that similarity will vary according to the IPC classification level, it is also important trying to find a way to mix similarities from the three levels. A reason is that detecting the general classification of the topic at the SC level is easier than detecting the specific cla ssification at SG level [2 accordingly, measuring similarity between two topics at the SC IPC lists seems important to measure the general similarity between them. On the other hand, detecting a high general similarity does not necessarily mean that topics are  tightly similar, that is, two topics may belong to the same SC however, have totally different topics as a SC is too general On the other hand, SG level is a specific classification level which shows specific similarity between topics in terms of IPCs, that is, if two topics are tightly similar their queries should produce similar ranked IPC lists from their retrieved documents; however, a difference in the used terms may cause those lists to differ A way to mix similarities from all levels is linearly interpolating similarities betw een each two topics as follows       where xx is the set of {Sub-Class, Main-Group, and SubGroup}, and   are mixture weights assigned according to the importance of sim ilarity at that classification level One important property for this similarity is that it is asymmetric, meaning that       This is due to the different IPC ranks in their assigned IPC lists. A possible modification to make this relation symmetric is by measuring the total di vergence to the average topic mixture similarity, as below           8 where     As dissimilarity between topics could be measured according to terms in addition to IPCs, a hybrid method to combine both dissimilarities is proposed as follows      179 


C Topic Attributes In order to characterize a topic for its goodness and hence determine whether it will be a drifting topic to be suppressed or a rising topic to be retained in the expanded query, two attributes for topics are introduced topic effectiveness and topic scope focus  1 Topic Effectiveness It is defined to be the retrieval effectiveness of a topic when it is used as a query. It is devised to evaluate an individual topic for its relative contribution to effectiveness of retrieving documents based on the original information need. This measure helps determining whether a topic would contribute to a better query after expansion Note that this attribute is used to evaluate topics generated out of an expanded query only in retrospect, for the purpose of evaluating a QE method. In reality, however, this information would not be available for individual topics as there would be no relevance judgments for a query or a topic 2 Topic Scope Focus A role of QE is to disambiguate the original query. We argue that query disambiguation with QE is closely related to narrowing the potential scope of the query or moving it toward a position in a vector space that represent the true information need. This can be done by adding terms more closely related to the information need or adjusting the term weights Given our premise that the mo re focused a topic is, the better, we attempt to measure topic scope focus for an identified topic based on its similarity to the original query topics and at the same time its independent cohesiveness that can be measured by the ch aracteristics of the terms representing the topic More precisely, topic scope focus is measured by cohesiveness of the terms representing the topic and their dissimilarity to those in other topics. Assuming that the term probability to a topic is the membership of that term to a hypothetical cluster, and that the dissimilarity between two topics can be measured with the hybrid dissimilarity method defined earlier, a scope focus function for a topic can be defined as       11 where  is the hybrid topic dissimilarity defined earlier while T is the set of all topics. The first part of the equation represents the aver age cohesiveness in the topic    easuring the average of term probabilities in the topic. We assume that a cohesive topic has terms with a higher average probability. The second part shows the average distinguishability of a topic fro m others. That is, a focused topic is distinguishable if it is highly dissimilar to other topics generated from the original query The Scope score will fall in the range of [0, 1 wh ere the zero indicates a very distinguishable topic with rare incoherent terms or a topic with very coherent; however commonly shared, terms. The best Scope in this case is closer to one 3  meaning that the topic is highly coherent, and highly distinguishable from other topics, as well D Topic Classes Since not all topics are equally important or exist before and after query expansion, we need to classify them accordingly. Some topics may be preserved from the original queries while others newly appear or disappear after the expansion process.  Following are the details of how different topic classes are defined and used 1 Coherent Topics Two topics are said to be cohe rent to each other when their similarity is high enough. By measuring coherency between topics, we can identify the topics that remain in the expanded query and at the same time determine the degree to which the changes have occurred to the original topic or the degree to which the content remains in the preserved topic. The main reason behind studying coherent topics is to identify the changes among topics, which can help identifying query topic drift Depending on the value of a coherency threshold, the numbers of various types of topics will vary. As such determining a threshold value would influence the query expansion process and hence overall effectiveness of an expanded query. That is, it is an optimization problem. In this study, however, the goal is to clearly explain the topic drift issue in QE and therefore various threshold values are examined empirically to see their effects 2 Vanishing Topics \(VT Original query topics \(OQTs\re said to be vanishing if they show incoherency with all the topics identified from an expanded query or EQTs. We hypothesize that VTs can cause the original query to be ambiguous, and thus removing them is supposed to enhance the resulting query\222s retrieval effectiveness. Since determin ing VTs are affected by the coherency threshold, the hypothesis can be proven or rejected depending on the threshold values we examine. Conversely, we can determine the threshold value by measuring how much effectiveness we gain by id entifying VTs. We empirically examine the effect of eliminating VTs based on various coherency threshold values. In this work, experiments on VTs have been omitted for brevity 3 Appearing Topics \(AT An EQT is said to be appearing if it is incoherent to all the OQTs. While ATs can be new topic introduced by the new terms in the expanded query, they can be latent topics that existed in the original query but buried with other stronger terms, which emerge with the aid of the new terms in the expanded query ATs generally have different importance as generating topics does not care whether topi cs are coherent or not alternatively, it focus on ge nerating topics according to assumed term and topic distributions \(i.e. Dirichlet\or  3 Even though the zero score can be ac hieved by in-cohesive and common topics we rely on HDP to sample te rms of general topics out, and that dissimilarity between topi cs is generally high \(i.e. in average over 0.45 180 


optimizing likelihood-based measures. Therefore, an AT may be a very specific topic that disambiguates one important aspect of the information need. Ho wever, it is also possible that it is a drifting topic that directs the original information need in a totally incorrect direction. As a result, we can classify ATs into two rising and drifting topic categories. Rising Topics are supposed to increase effectiveness of the query whereas drifting topics do harm on effectiveness of the query Determining a threshold dynamically for an expanded query is difficult and beyond the scope of this paper; in this work, we examine different threshold values empirically and attempt to show this notion of drifting topics would help determining goodness of an expanded query and hence improving retrieval effectiveness IV E VALUATION We now present the results of our experiments on different topic classes. Mainly, we aim at showing that Rising Topics are helpful for generating a more effective query than the original query or the OQTs. In addition, we aim at showing that the concept of topic focus is helpful in selecting topics among the rising topics to form an even more effective query than the rising topics only query We have randomly sampled 103 queries \(patents\ the NTCIR-6 USPTO 4 collection. As the number of documents used to generate topics has to be reasonable, we made sure that each IPC associated with a pate nt included in the collection contains at least 100 documents. For generating topics from both original and expanded queries, we used HDP that is configured to stop at 100 iterations on all queries with 10 burnin iterations, while all other HDP parameters set to the values listed in [13   F o r  f a i r c o m p a r i s o n s b e t w e e n a n  o r i g i n a l q u e r y  and its expanded version, the same number of documents was selected for generating topics for both In order to show that the analysis results depend on different QE methods, we employed two: Wikipedia-based Query Phrase Expansion \(WQPE a nd R e l e vancebased  Language Model \(RM\1  m e t hods Whi l e R M was chosen  because it is a strong probabilisti c model and has been heavily used as the benchmark of QE methods, WQPE is a phrasebased QE method that has proven to be more effective than RM in patent class search. It is interesting to note that both methods have generated much more topics on average \(153 topics for WQPE, and 168 topics for RM\ than the original queries \(11.3 topics\ possible reason is that expanded query terms may retrieve documents from various contexts, which would generate additional topics. Since each of the original queries was quite coherent by itself and the documents added to it all share the same IPCs, on the other hand, it is natural that HDP recognizes fewer topics Our major findings in this paper are summarized in Table 1 Showing three different sets of results \(Original Queries, EQTs after eliminating drifting topics, and EQTs after eliminating drifting topics and then eliminating unfocused topics\over three different patent classification levels \(SC, MG, and SG the table shows the effect of eliminating drifting topics  4 http://research.nii.ac.jp/ntcir ntcir-ws8/data-en.html showing an effectiveness improvement in higher classification levels. By eliminating unfocused topics in addition to drifting topics, effectiveness improved on all classification levels to reach at least 13.97% and 11.72% for WQPE and RM respectively, showing higher improvement over EQTs with drifting topics eliminated \(1 3.09% for WQPE compared to 11.28% for RM TABLE 1:Comparison between RM and WQPE effectiveness using their expanded queries, queries generated from rising topics, and queries generated from rising focused topics  RM WQPE Queries \(Baseline SC 50.38 52.88 MG 34.26 35.87 SG 27.9  28.27 EQTs after eliminating Drifting Topics SC 53.62 6.43 55.39 4.75 MG 35.74 4.32 37.7 5.10 SG 28.01 0.39 28.49 0.78 EQTs after eliminating Drifting Topics then eliminating Unfocused Topics SC 59.67 18.44 11.28 63.66 20.39 14.93 MG 41.71 21.75 16.70 42.31 17.95 12.23 SG 31.17 11.72 11.28 32.22 13.97 13.09 As our focus in this paper is identifying drifting topics and showing the effect of removing them, we have conducted a series of experiments trying to identify drifting topics among other topic classes, and then investigate the relationship between effectiveness and the el imination of drifting topics from the expanded queries to prove that it will lead to enhancement in retrieval effectiveness. After several preliminary experiments on coherent and vanishing topics we have realized that expanded query drifting topics exist among appearing topics only, thus further experiments are performed on appearing topics For each of the appearing topics we measured effectiveness by generating a query from the topic terms. As individual topics achieved low effectiveness results we have decided to divide appearing topics accordi ng to their effectiveness and find the most effective amount of appearing topics that will contribute towards generating an effective query. An important act as been concluded that is, by eliminating 75% of the appearing topics, the remaining topics will generate better effectiveness than using all the topics generated from the expanded query. It has been also concluded that those 75% can be safely recognized as drifting topics, as the higher percentage of topics considered among them, the lower obtained effectiveness. On the other hand, the other 25% of the topics 181 


are recognized as the rising topi cs. Complete results of this experiment were omitted for brevity In order to examine the topi c focus importance, rising topics were further sorted according to their focus score, and various percentages have been tested. It has been concluded that selecting the top 25% focused topics among the rising topics will produce a query with higher effectiveness than using rising topics only, or even the original query. Additional experiments on the rising topics, by trying smaller percentages of the most focused topics \(i.e. 18.75%, 12.5%, and 6.25 has been made; however, selecting over-focused topics has proven to harm the reporte d effectiveness. Complete experiments and their full results were also omitted for brevity V CONCLUSIONS We have proposed a new framework where topics of expanded queries can be analy zed. In particular, we showed how drifting topics can be identified in experiments and demonstrated the negative role they play in retrieval effectiveness and positive role of rising topics. It has been proved that topic pairwise simila rities and topic attributes can be significantly useful in identifying different topic classes The main value of the work in this paper lies in the finding of different topic types and the possibility of analyzing expanded queries and selecting useful topics for retrieval effectiveness An obvious limitation in our work is the use of topic effectiveness assuming that we have the relevance judgment basically because our main goal is to study the drifting topics However, we believe that fi nding a replacement for predicting the topic effectiveness represen ts a challenge for our future work. Additionally, we aim at utilizing our analysis for devising a new QE method that utilizes topics instead of ranking documents or terms for expanding queries A CKNOWLEDGMENT This research was supported by the MSIP \(Ministry of Science ICT & Future Planning\, Korea, under the ITRC \(Information Technology Research Center\ort program \(NIPA-2013H0301-13-3005\ supervised by the NIPA \(National IT Industry Promotion Agency R EFERENCES 1 M. Agosti, and Melucci, M. 2000. Information Retrieval on the Web In Proceedings of the Third Europ ean Summer-School on Lectures on Information Retrieval-Revised Lectur es\(ESSIR '00\, Maristella Agosti Fabio Crestani, and Gabriella Pasi Eds.\. Springer-Verlag, London, UK 242-285 2 Al-Shboul, B., and Myaeng, S.H. 2 011. Query phrase expansion using wikipedia in patent class search. In Proceedings of the 7th Asia conference on Information Retrieva l Technology \(AIRS'11\, Mohamed Mohamed Salem, Khaled Shaalan Farhad Oroumchian, Azadeh Shakery, and Halim Khelalfa \(Eds.\. Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 115-126 3 Bai, J., and Nie, J.Y. 2008. Adapting information retrieval to query contexts. Inf. Process. Manage. 44, 6 \(November 2008\, 1901-1922 4 Blei, D., Ng, A., and Jordan, M.I. 2003 Latent dirichlet allocation. J Mach. Learn. Res. 3 \(March 2003\, 993-1022 5 Carmel, D., and Yom-Tov, E. 2010. Estimating the query difficulty for information retrieval. In Proceedi ngs of the 33rd international ACM SIGIR conference on Research a nd development in information retrieval \(SIGIR '10\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 911-911 6 Chang, J., Boyd-graber, J., Gerrish, S., Wang, C., Blei, D.M.: Reading tea leaves: How humans interpret topi c models. In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems \(2010 7 Kim,D., and Oh, A. 2011. Topic chains for understanding a news corpus. In Proceedings of the 12 th international conference on Computational linguistics and intelligent text processing - Volume Part II \(CICLing'11\, Alexander Gelbukh \(Ed Vol. Part II. Springer-Verlag Berlin, Heidelberg, 163-176 8 Knights, D., Mozer, M., & Nicolov N. \(2009\cting Topic Drift with Compound Topic Models. AAAI 9 Lang, H., Metzler, D., Wang, B., and Li, J.T. 2010. Improved latent concept expansion using hierarchical markov random fields In Proceedings of the 19th ACM international conference on Information and knowledge manage ment \(CIKM '10 NY, USA, 249-258 10 Lavrenko, V., and Croft, W.B. 2001 Relevance based language models In Proceedings of the 24th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in in formation retrieval \(SIGIR '01 ACM, New York, NY, USA, 120-127 11 Macdonald, C., and Ounis, I. 2007. E xpertise drift and query expansion in expert search. InProceedings of the sixteenth ACM conference on Conference on information and know ledge management \(CIKM 07 ACM, New York, NY, USA, 341-350 12 Shtok, A., Kurland, O., and Ca rmel, D. 2009. Predicting Query Performance by Query-Drift Estima tion. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Theory of Information Retrieval: Advances in Information Retrieval Theory \(ICTI R '09\ Leif Azzopardi, Gabriella Kazai, Stephen Robertson, Stefan Ruger, Milad Shokouhi, Dawei Song and Emine Yilmaz \(Eds.\. Springer-Ve rlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 305-312 13 Teh, Y., Jordan, M., Beal, M., and Bl ei, D. 2006. Hierarchical Dirichlet Processes. JASA, 101\(476\, 1566-1581 14 Vechtomova, O. 2005. The role of multi-word units in interactive information retrieval. InProceedings of the 27th European conference on Advances in Information Retrieval Research\(ECIR'05\, David E. Losada and Juan M. Fern\341ndez-Luna \(Eds.\. Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 403-420 15 Yun Zhou andW. Bruce Croft. Query performance prediction in web search environments. In Proceedings of the 30th annual international ACMSIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval \(SIGIR 2007\, pages 543\226550, Amsterdam, The Netherlands 2007 16 Steve Cronen-Townsend, Yun Zhou, andW. Bruce Croft. Predicting query performance. In Proceedings of the 25th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval \(SIGIR 2002\, pages 299\2263 06, Tampere, Finland, 2002. ACM 182 


                                


   


      2005 MIS Quarterly 
18\(2 118-124  Collin s, S. A Va w d re y   D. K., Kudaf k a  R  Kuperman, G. J. 2011. Policies for Patient Access to Clinical Data Via PHRs: Current State and Recommendations 18\(Suppl 1\-i7  Sch n i pper, J  L Gandh i T  K W ald  J  S Grant R. W., Poon, E. G., Volk, L. A., Businger, A Williams, D. H., Siteman, E., Buckel, L., & Middleton B. 2012. Effects of an Online Personal Health Record on Medication Accuracy and Safety: A Clusterrandomized Trial 19\(5\: 728-734  W a gn er, P  J., Dias, J   Ho w a rd, S., Kin tzi g e r, K W., Hudson, M. F., Seol, Y.-H., & Sodomka, P. 2012 Personal Health Records and Hypertension Control: A Randomized Trial 19\(4\: 626-634  L i u L S., S h i h P C  Ha y es, G.R 2011 Barriers to the adoption and use of personal health record systems. Proceedings of the 2011 iConference pp. 363-370. DOI: 10.1145/1940761.1940811  Spil T A Mich e l Ve rk erk e M. B 201 2 Dutch  Eburon, Delft  T A Schu r ing  R W  Mich e l Ver k e rk e  M. B. \(2004\. Electronic prescription system: do the professionals USE IT 32-55  R o g e rs E. M. \(198 3 New York: Free Press  Easti n M. S 2002 f u s i on of e co mm erce a n  analysis of the adoption of four e-commerce activities 251 267  an n a E.; Ag ar w al R   An gs t, C 2006  Reconceptualizing Compatibility Beliefs," MIS Quarterly, \(30: 4  l G a h ta n i, S. S. \(2011 Mo deli n g t h e electron ic  transactions acceptance using an extended technology acceptance model 47 77  C respo, A  H. \(2008  plain i n g B2C e commerce acceptance: An integrative model based on the framework by Gatignon and Robertson 212-224  B h attach e rj ee, A 20 00 c cep tance of E Commerce Services: The Case of Electronic Brokerages 411-420  C h en  L  D   T a n  J. \(200 4 T e ch n o log y  Adaptation in E-commerce: Key Determinants of Virtual Stores Acceptance 74-86  Sh ih H P 2004  e m pirical s t u d y on predicting user acceptance of e-shopping on the Web 351-368  Ven k ates h V. A 2000 A th eoretical ex te n s io n of the Technoly Acceptance Model: Four longitudal field studies  186-204  Wan g Y.-S. \(2008  A s s e s s i ng e co m m e rce  systems success: a respecification and vali on of the DeLone and McLean model of IS success 529 557  Pav l ou P. A  20 03  C o n s um er A c ceptan ce o f Electronic Commerce: Integrating Trust and Risk with the Technology Acceptance Model 69 103  Green   D. T    P e ars on J  M. \(2011 teg rating website usability with the electronic commerce acceptance model 181 199  h ou T  Z h ang  S 200 9 Ex a m in in g th e  Effect of E-commerce Website Quality on User Satisfaction pp. 418-421 Nanchang: IEEE  Eg g e r, F. N 200 1 Aff e cti v e Desi g n o f E commerce User Interfaces: How to Maximise Perceived Trustworthiness London: Asean Academic Press  Reichh eld F. F  Sa sser, W J  199 0 Z e ro  Defections: Quality Comes to Services 105-111  Z e ut h a m l V B e rr y L   P a rasu ra m a n A   1996\The behavior consequences of service quality Journal of Marketing 60, 31-46  Kim  C., Gallier s, R. D Sh i n N R y oo, J  H   Kim, J. \(2012\ influencing Internet shopping value and customer repurchase intention 374 387  L iette L a p o in te  S u zan n e  Ri v a rd A Multilevel Model of Resi stance to Information Technology Implementation 461-49 
the American Medical Informatics Association Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association De waarde van informatie in de gezondheidswereld Int. J. Healthcare Technology Management, Vol. 6, No. 1 Diffusion of Innovations Telematics and Informatics 197 Applied Computing and Informatics 9 Interacting with Computer 20 IEEE Transactions on Systemens, Man And Cybernetics - Part A Systems and Humans, Vol 30, No. 4 European Management Journal Vol.22, No. 1 Information % Management 41 Management Science, Vol. 46, No. 2 Info Systems 18 International Journal of Electronic Co mmerce, Vol. 7, No. 3 Beh aviour & Information Technology Vol. 30, No. 2 Second International Symposium on Electronic Commerce and Security International Conference on Affective Human Factors Design Harvard Business Review Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 11 
2826 


Information & Management 48 Case study research: Design and methods \(2nd ed Journal of Business Research 63 Behavior and Information Technology Vol. 20, No. 1 International Journal of Electronic Commerce Vol. 6 Qualitative data analysis: An expanded sourcebook Social Science Research:Principles, methods and practice 
Sia, C. L. \(2011\onsumerês decision    
PRIMA construct Success factors expected to be measured Examples of questions asked Process Perceived compatibility Which health records you regularly use?  Are you using a fixed sequence of actions Which alternatives you have to find information Relevance Perceived usefulness Perceived usability Which functions of a PHR are most important for you? Which parts of the system you experience as a bottleneck? Do you have suggestions for improvements Informati on needs Information quality Which information you need to get from the service? Do you get sufficient information from the system? Is the information quality sufficient Means and people Service quality System quality Perceived risks Do you get sufficient support? Is the system reliable Does the system offer enough privacy Attitude Trust Social and personal influence Do you think IT is necessary to improve health in formation? Do you feel social pressure of using the service? How much time do you want to spend for learning to use the service Appendix 1: Interview framework 
 L e e, M. K., Sh i, N., Ch eung, C. M., Lim, K. H to shop online The moderating role of positive informational social influence 185 191  R  K. \(199 4 Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage  Her n  ndez, B  J i m  n e z, J  Ma rtÌn M. J  2010\Customer behavior in electronic commerce The moderating effect of e-purchasing experience 964 971  Freu d en th al D. \(2001  A g e diff ere n ces  in th e  performance of 9-22   T u rban, M. K 20 1 1  A T r u s t Mo del f o r  Consumer Internet Shopping 75 91  Miles, M.B  and Huber m an A  M Sage, 1994  attach e rj ee, A 2012  Creative Commons e-book 
2827 


Figure 4  Payload Allocation Figure 5  Procurement vs Hosted Payloads Hosted payloads vs 100 procurement This case study focuses on the impact of including hosted payloads as part of the system Figure 5 presents an extended representation of the tradespace where hosted payload architectures are included The 002rst immediate conclusion that can be drawn is that based on the cost model from hosted payloads offer the possibility of signi\002cant cost reductions 050between 15 and 30%\051 As a result all architectures on the Pareto front rely on hosted payload architectures On the other hand concerns about using hosted payload assets for critical applications like astronaut support have been 003agged as a major caveat In this case an optimal solution would entail using a portfolio of hosted payloads and privately owned satellites and schedule the communications through ones or the others according to operational constraints Therefore building this portfolio can be done by analyzing what communication payloads are better suited for hosted payload con\002gurations Figure 6 presents the tradespace of architectures that mix hosted payload and procured assets Results indicate that including hosted payload assets in the system does not have a major impact on its performance but requires disaggregating the monolithic satellites identi\002ed as optimal in the previous case study That being the case the next questions arise Figure 6  Portfolios of hosted payload and procured assets Which payload obtains better savings when being hosted How many payloads do you want to 003y in a hosted payload approach The answer for the 002rst question can be obtained by analyzing the non-dominated architectures from 002gure 6 and estimating the cost savings when hosting the different types of antennas that are considered in this analysis Results indicate that hosting an optical payload can potentially save an 28 of the cost while a low data rate antenna 050S-band\051 only obtains a 16 cost reduction 050note that these numbers are based on the system life-cycle cost and are heavily in\003uenced by the hosted payload cost model\051 Therefore it seems to be more advisable to put high data rate payloads like optical terminals in commercial satellites and retain control of S-band communications 050which in turn ensures that contingency event will be addressed by privately owned assets not constrained by the operational limitations of host platforms\051 Finally 002gure 7 presents the tradespace of hosted payload architectures color coded by the number of antennas that are being hosted By looking at the Pareto front it can be seen that almost all architectures host one single antenna as opposed to two in order to minimize the burden on the host platform This burden is also contingent on the mass and power of the hosted communication payload This is the main reason why optical terminals become so attractive for hosted payload architectures as opposed to low frequency systems that require big parabolic antennas and power ampli\002ers to close the link budgets 6 C ONCLUSION Summary This paper has presented the 002rst set of results obtained through the developed architectural tool to evaluate space communication networks It has 002rst provided a high level overview of the tool with a description of four main constitutive elements An STK model an architecture generator an architecture evaluator and a resource manager Next it has described the newly developed scheduling algorithm based on a rule-based expert system that ef\002ciently allocates the network resources to satisfy near-Earth mission communication requirements Then a discussion on the conducted validation exercise has 11 


Figure 7  Portfolios of hosted payload and procured assets been presented in order to gain some level of con\002dence on the results that the tool outputs This discussion has focused on the validation of the scheduling algorithm by benchmarking it with operational schedules from the TDRSS Finally this paper has presented two case studies for future implementations of the TDRSS system Based on a demand forecast for the network a 002rst case study has considered the problem of selecting the frequency band to be supported and how to allocate them into the relay satellites It has been shown that maximum performance architectures require a mix of optical and RF payloads that support high throughput communications as well as reliable low data rate communications If the traditional procurement strategy is assumed 050NASA buys and operates the relay satellites\051 then monolithic architectures are preferable unless more than two high gain antennas render the resulting satellite con\002guration too complex In turn the second case study has extended this analysis by introducing architectures with hosted payloads It has been shown that according to the current available pricing model hosted payload architectures are clearly preferable than the traditional procurement strategy with cost savings between 15 to 30 for the same level of system performance It has then been discussed the advantages of having mixed procured and hosted payload architectures as a compromise to obtain networks with reduced lifecycle costs that can still address the requirements of highly sensitive and reliable applications Results have demonstrated that high data rate payloads 050speci\002cally optical payloads\051 are the best candidates to be hosted 050with savings up to 28%\051 thanks to their reduced mass and power requirement On the other hand low data rate communication payload should be allocated in privately owned satellites as they require bigger antennas and power ampli\002ers that increase the burden on the host platform Future Work The main streams of future work are as twofold On one hand additional features should be added to the model in order to better capture the complexity of the network con\002gurations 050e.g coupling between the costs of the communication payloads depending on the level of on-orbit processing the they perform\051 Additionally the size of the tradespace is currently limited to less than two thousand architectures due to computational limitations a stringent limitation given the possible combinations from the identi\002ed architectural decisions The solution currently under development is to include a genetic algorithm that alleviates this problem by iteratively generates new populations of architectures by combining the best previously evaluated networks On the other hand the other main stream of future work is related to exercising the tool in a variety of architectural decisions and mission scenarios In the presented case studies only geosynchronous constellations were considered although the tool allows comparing them with systems that place relays in MEO and LEO orbits Additionally the tool can also provide insight in valuing inter-satellite links and how the cost of putting in orbit their extra communication payloads can be leveraged by reducing the number of operating ground stations Moreover couplings between the payload allocation and fractionation strategy should also be further explored so as to understand if monolithic architectures still become preferable if relay satellites can be decomposed in clusters of independent antennas and payloads Finally supplementary what-if analysis can be conducted based on 0501\051 the demand forecast for the 2020-2030 time frame 0502\051 granted spectrum allocations to NASA and 0503\051 technology improvements that increase the spectral ef\002ciency of the communication payloads 12 


A PPENDIX Table 7  Acronyms Arch Architecture CER Cost Estimating Relationship DESDYNI Deformation Ecosystem Structure and Dynamics of Ice DSN Deep Space Network EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power GEO Geosynchronous Orbit GRTG Guam Remote Ground Terminal GSFC Goddard Space Flight Center HD High De\002nition HP Hosted Payloads ISL Intersatellite Link ISS International Space Station LCC Life Cycle Cost LEO Low Earth Orbit MEO Medium Earth Orbit MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology MOC Mission Operating Center MPCV Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration NCCDS Network Control Center Data System NDA Non-Disclosure Agreement NEN Near Earth Network NISN NASA Integrated Services Network NOAA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration RF Radio Frequency SA Single Access SBRS Space based Relay Study SCaN Space Communication and Navigation SN Space Network STGT Second TDRSS Ground Terminal STK Systems ToolKit TDRSS Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System TT&C Telemetry Tracking and Command USGS United States Geological Survey WSGT White Sands Grount Terminal A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This project is funded by NASA under grant NNX11AR70G Special thanks for Gregory Heckler David Milliner and Catherine Barclay at NASA GSFC for their help getting the dataset and their feedback on our study R EFERENCES   National Aeronautics and Space Administration 223Space Communications and Navigation 050SCaN\051 Network Architecture De\002nition Document 050ADD\051 Volume 1  Executive Summary,\224 Tech Rep 2011   227\227 A v ailable http   www.nasa.gov/directorates/heo/scan   e a Sanchez Net Marc 223Exploring the architectural trade space of nasas space communication and navigation program,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2013 IEEE  2013   P Brown O  Eremenko 223Fractionated space architectures a vision for responsive space,\224 Tech Rep   S M V  D C E Teles J 223Overview of TDRSS,\224 Advances in Space Research  vol 16 pp 67\22676 1995   Analytical Graphics Inc A v ailable http   http://www.agi.com   D Selva Valero 223Rule-Based System Architecting of Earth Observation Satellite Systems by,\224 Ph.D dissertation Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2012   K D W  S P Davidson A 223Pricing a hosted payload,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2012 IEEE  2012   W J Larson and J R Wertz Space mission analysis and design  Microcosm Inc 1992   M Adinol\002 and A Cesta 223Contributed Paper Heuristic Scheduling of the DRS Communication System,\224 vol 8 1995   National Aeronautics and Space Administration Space Network Users Guide 050 SNUG 051  2007 no August 2007   e a Tran J J 223Evaluating cloud computing in the nasa desdyni ground data system,\224 in Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Software Engineering for Cloud Computing  2011 B IOGRAPHY  Marc Sanchez Net is currently a second year M.S student in the department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT His research interests include machine learning algorithms and rule-based expert systems and their suitability to the 002elds of system engineering and space communication networks Prior to his work at MIT Marc interned at Sener Ingenieria y Sistemas as a part of the team that develops and maintains FORAN a CAD/CAM/CAE commercial software for shipbuilding Marc received his degrees in both Industrial engineering and Telecommunications engineering in 2012 from Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya Barcelona Dr Daniel Selva received a PhD in Space Systems from MIT in 2012 and he is currently a post-doctoral associate in the department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT and an adjunct Assistant Professor in the Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Cornell University His research interests focus on the application of multidisciplinary optimization and arti\002cial intelligence techniques to space systems engineering and architecture Prior to MIT Daniel worked for four years in Kourou 050French Guiana\051 as a member of the Ariane 5 Launch team Daniel has a dual background in electrical engineering 13 


and aeronautical engineering with degrees from Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya in Barcelona Spain and Supaero in Toulouse France He is a 2007 la Caixa fellow and received the Nortel Networks prize for academic excellence in 2002 Dr Bruce Cameron is a Lecturer in Engineering Systems at MIT and a consultant on platform strategies At MIT Dr Cameron ran the MIT Commonality study a 16 002rm investigation of platforming returns Dr Cameron's current clients include Fortune 500 002rms in high tech aerospace transportation and consumer goods Prior to MIT Bruce worked as an engagement manager at a management consultancy and as a system engineer at MDA Space Systems and has built hardware currently in orbit Dr Cameron received his undergraduate degree from the University of Toronto and graduate degrees from MIT Dr Edward F Crawley received an Sc.D in Aerospace Structures from MIT in 1981 His early research interests centered on structural dynamics aeroelasticity and the development of actively controlled and intelligent structures Recently Dr Crawleys research has focused on the domain of the architecture and design of complex systems From 1996 to 2003 he served as the Department Head of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT leading the strategic realignment of the department Dr Crawley is a Fellow of the AIAA and the Royal Aeronautical Society 050UK\051 and is a member of three national academies of engineering He is the author of numerous journal publications in the AIAA Journal the ASME Journal the Journal of Composite Materials and Acta Astronautica He received the NASA Public Service Medal Recently Prof Crawley was one of the ten members of the presidential committee led by Norman Augustine to study the future of human space\003ight in the US Bernard D Seery is the Assistant Director for Advanced Concepts in the Of\002ce of the Director at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center 050GSFC\051 Responsibilities include assisting the Deputy Director for Science and Technology with development of new mission and measurement concepts strategic analysis strategy development and investment resources prioritization Prior assignments at NASA Headquarters included Deputy for Advanced Planning and Director of the Advanced Planning and Integration Of\002ce 050APIO\051 Division Director for Studies and Analysis in the Program Analysis and Evaluation 050PA&E\051 of\002ce and Deputy Associate Administrator 050DAA\051 in NASA's Code U Of\002ce of Biological and Physical Research 050OBPR\051 Previously Bernie was the Deputy Director of the Sciences and Exploration Directorate Code 600 at 050GSFC\051 Bernie graduated from Fair\002eld University in Connecticut in 1975 with a bachelors of science in physics with emphasis in nuclear physics He then attended the University of Arizona's School of Optical Sciences and obtained a masters degree in Optical Sciences specializing in nonlinear optical approaches to automated alignment and wavefront control of a large electrically-pumped CO2 laser fusion driver He completed all the course work for a PhD in Optical Sciences in 1979 with emphasis in laser physics and spectroscopy He has been a staff member in the Laser Fusion Division 050L1\051 at the Los Alamos National Laboratories 050LANL\051 managed by the University of California for the Department of Energy working on innovative infrared laser auto-alignment systems and infrared interferometry for target alignment for the HELIOS 10 kilojoule eight-beam carbon dioxide laser fusion system In 1979 he joined TRW's Space and Defense organization in Redondo Beach CA and designed and developed several high-power space lasers and sophisticated spacecraft electro-optics payloads He received the TRW Principal Investigators award for 8 consecutive years Dr Antonios A Seas is a Study Manager at the Advanced Concept and Formulation Of\002ce 050ACFO\051 of the NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center Prior to this assignment he was a member of the Lasers and Electro-Optics branch where he focused on optical communications and the development of laser systems for space applications Prior to joining NASA in 2005 he spent several years in the telecommunication industry developing long haul submarine 002ber optics systems and as an Assistant Professor at the Bronx Community College Antonios received his undergraduate and graduate degrees from the City College of New York and his doctoral degree from the Graduate Center of the City University of New York He is also a certi\002ed Project Management Professional 14 


 





 17  Jar r e n  A   B al d w i n  is  a  Ch i c a g o  n a t i v e  a n d  c u r r e n t l y  se r v e s a s t h e  l e a d  E l e c t r i c a l  En g i n e e r  a t  B a y  A r e a  s t a r t u p   Oc u l e v e  I n c   He  g r a d u a t e d  fr o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f Il l i n o i s  wi t h  a  B  S   i n  2 0 0 9  an d  r ecei v ed  an  M  S   i n  El e c t r i c a l  En g i n e e r i n g  f r  St a n f o r d  U n i v e r s i t y  i n  2 0 1 2   Ja r r e n  d e v e l o p e d  h a r d w a r e  a n d  so f t w a r e  sy st e m s f o r  a  w i d e  ra n g e  o f  f i e l d s   i n c l u d i n g  s p a c e  s c i e n c e  s y s t e m s  a n d  m e d i c a l  de vi c e s  a s  a N A S A  A m es  i nt e r n i n t he  In t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s     1  2  3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   


                        


                           


   












































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


