Social Structures, Isomorphic Pressures, and B2B Utilisation in the Thai Tourism Industry  Savanid Vatanasakdakul     Chadi Aoun Macquarie University, Australia   Macquarie University, Australia  svatanas@efs.mq.edu.au      caoun@efs.mq.edu.au  Abstract  This study aims to develop and test a theoretical model to investigate how Thai firms use B2B technology for interorganisational collaboration and productivity. We apply the institutional theory to investigate factors aff ecting firms B2B technology utilisation and performance in the Thai tourism 
industry. This study posits that mimetic, coercive and normative pressures may influence B2B technology utilization and performance. Survey-based research was carried out to test this model. Following questionnaire development, pretest, and a pilot study data were collected from firms that have adopted B2B technology in the Thai tourism industry. The Partial Least Squares method was used for data analysis. Results show that normative and coercive pressures had a significant influence on firms utilisation of B2B technology, while only normative pressure had a significant influence on performance  1. Introduction  The past decade was marked by steady advances 
in the ubiquity of Internet and e-commerce throughout the industrialized world. Despite the fact that the ability to access the Internet in developing countries is a prerequisite for the development of ecommerce, the number of Internet users does not necessarily indicate the volume of Internet-based Business to Business \(B2B\ activity expansion and their productivities [15, 16, 24 a s u rv e y o f  12 developing countries conducted by the Untied Nations w h ic h to o u r k n o w l ed g e is th e  m o s t  recent comprehensive survey to date, e-mail was the 
only Internet activity in which more than 50 percent of the respondents engaged in the last six months The other forms of B2B technology such as internet based Electronic Data Interchange \(EDI\y mentioned  To serve the purpose of this study, B2B is classified into two levels: B2B transaction and B2B communication. The theoretical foundation of B2B transaction is based on automated computer-tocomputer communication systems \(e.g. EDI\while B2B communication \(e.g. e-mails and emarketplaces\ is more focused on the use of 
computer-mediated communication in interorganisational contexts. Due to the limited B2B transaction adoption in developing countries  the scope of B2B technology herein refers to the use of internet-based B2B communication including emarketplace and e-mail and excludes EDI  This research aims to investigate factors effecting the utilisation of B2B technology in developing countries, in this case, Thailand. Thailand is a developing country, which is located in South East Asia. Internet facilities have been available since 
1987. The number of Internet users reached approximately seven million in 2004, which is equal to approximately 12 users for every 100 population  l t h ough t h e n u m b er of In t e r n et  u s ers h a s increased and the Thai government has established the national Information and Communication Technology \(ICT\ plan to encourage Internet based B2B technology adoption in the Thai business sectors, particularly in small and medium enterprise  T h ailan d f ace s a s l o w  u p tak e of B2B  technology among businesses. Research on ecommerce adoption in Thailand [18, 31 o u n d t h at  
Thailand is still struggling to maximise the diffusion of B2B technology and that net benefits such as cost reduction and improved competitiveness have not been realized. However, very few studies have attempted to further explain the low level of B2B diffusion in Thailand. It is worthwhile to note here that B2B technologies such as email and emarketplace have already been available to many firms in the Thai tourism industry, however empirical findings from our previous research a v e  
pointed to a very low level of utilisation and performance benefits  This research posits that, in an interorganisational network, the nature of business relationships can influence the B2B technology utilisation and performance. This research therefore aims to investigate the types of isomorphic pressures  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


mimetic, coercive and normative that may influence B2B technology utilisation and performance in Thai firms To our knowledge, the institutional theory has not been applied in the context of internet based B2B technology, particularly in developing countries. The next section presents a review of relevant literature on B2B technology diffusion  2. Literature on B2B technology diffusion  There is a considerable amount of research attempting to analyze the adoption and diffusion of B2B technology [e.g. 30, 34, 37 rev i e w o f  relevant literature revealed that various theoretical frameworks, for example organisational learning theories, the risk benefit framework and theories of media richness, have been adopted to investigate this area. Yet, impact of the Internet on interorganisational relationships has received little attention in the academic literatu   One of the prime benefits claimed for B2B technology is that information will be freely shared among trading partners, a question arises as to what extent can information be sh  T h is is a  critical issue in the business world as information is the key factor to operate and to gain competitive advantage. Eventhough technology provides the ability to share information, firms may not want to share their information for several reasons. It will be difficult to convince trading partners to adopt an information system for inter-firm communication and collaboration, unless there is a clear benefit for all partners   Furthermore, the complexity of interorganisational networks in the B2B emarketplace has focused more attention on the interdependency among firms. The nature of the B2B e-marketplace model results in more complexity in interorganisational relationship than would be found in IOS such as EDI. While traditional IOS models predominately operationalise one-to-one relationships, e-marketplaces are mainly characterised by one-to-many and many-to-many relationships [19, 27    B2B technology adoption and diffusion research tend to be drawn from experiences in developed countries, and existing theories are also implicitly grounded in this context stan ce R a o et a l   s e rt th at th e in ter n et does n o t appear to h i n d er  interorganisational relationships in the Australian service industry. In fact, it improves business performance and satisfaction. Nevertheless, it is argued that emerging economies or non-western economies present a significantly different business context to developed economies, with differences in physical infrastructure, financial support, technical know-how, business philosophy and culture. This may lead to different challenges facing firms in emerging economies, which may not benefit from western approaches to technology adoption and diffusion   Although the different theoretical perspectives drawn to explain firms behaviour in adoption and diffusion of B2B technology, one of the issues pointed out by researchers is the connection between inter-firm relationships and firms performance. For instance, Subramani ed t h eori es of  organisational learning and transaction cost to propose a model explaining suppliers use of a supply chain management system \(SCMS\. The results indicated that the use of IT in the supply chain can foster a closer buyer-supplier relationship. In a study by Kaefer and Bendoly t  w a s f oun d t h at  f i r m s seem to have gained better benefits from adopting EDI than non-EDI systems. Traditional EDI systems have been geared towards establishing long term partnerships, where volume economies are critical Instead, the non EDI e-commerce technologies are often associated with a much larger community of potential short-term partnerships  One important aspect of B2B technology adoption and diffusion is the consideration that firms give to investment decision making and perceived benefits  e v e rth e le s s  oth e r f a ct ors s u ch a s techn ical  infrastructure, perceived risk, and trust, are also important for the utilisation of the technology. For example, a study by Zahay and Handfi oun d  that organizations which possessed, not only the technical capabilities for automation but also the ability to learn and share information, would be the most likely to adopt B2B technology   3. Research model, Hypothesis and Construct Development  This section presents the research model hypothesis and construct development based on the institutional theory  3.1 Institutional Theory  This study proposes to investigate the isomorphic pressures effecting the utilisation of B2B technology in Thailand via an institutional lens. The institutional Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


approach highlights the importance of institutional environments influencing organisational structures and actions. Burt \(1987, cited in Teo et al   asserts that organisations are thus subject to pressures to be isomorphic with their environment which incorporate both interconnectedness and structural equivalence This isomorphism implies that, over time, organizations operating in a specific social context become increasingly similar through institutional forces [10    The institutional approach has been applied by several Information Systems \(IS\earchers. One of the major studies in this area is by Te They validated the pressures that exist in an institutionalised environment influencing organisational predisposition toward an information technology-based interorganisational linkage. Teo et  d th ree t y pe s o f i s o m orph ic pres s u re s   which were conceptually proposed by Dimaggio and Powell [10  t o i nve st i g a t e a d o p t i o n o f fi na nc i a l  electronic data interchange \(FEDI\ Singapore These isomorphic factors are categorized as mimetic coercive and normative pressures. 583 survey questionnaires were sent to top management to measure the isomorphic pressures they faced and their intention to adopt FEDI in Singapore. The results revealed that overall there was a strong empirical support for institutional-based variables as predictors of adoption intentions for FEDI Normative pressures had the strongest influence on the adoption intention, followed by coercive and mimetic pressures  Furthermore, the concept of isomorphism has also been applied in enterprise resource system \(ERP adoption research. Liang et dev e loped an d  tested a model in the Chinese context to investigate the assimilation of ERP in the post-implementation stage. They found that coercive pressures positively affect top management participation without the mediation of top management beliefs, while normative pressures directly effect ERP usage  B2B technology highlights the importance of business relationships for inter-firm collaboration We propose a research model which applies the notion of isomorphic pressures to investigating the utilisation and performance of B2B technology in Thailand. This research hopes to provide a better understanding of how external pressures influence organisational behaviour in a B2B technology context. Figure 1 depicts the research model, which is derived from Teo et al    Figure 1 The research model  3.2 Construct Development  3.2.1 Mimetic pressures  Mimetic pressures results as organisation response to uncertainty by mimicking action of other organisation [10, 22 ccor d in g to T e o et al 36  mimetic pressures refer to the prevalence of a practice in the focal organisation s industry and the perceived success of organisations within the focal organisation s industry They point out that the decision for firms to engage in a particular behaviour can be influenced by their members in an interorganisational network. Organisations are likely to imitate the behaviours of those whom they perceived as successfully. One of the strategies firms may apply to stay competitive in the marketplace is to mimic behaviours of successful organisations. This seems to be relevant to our research context, as businesses in East-Asian countries may believe that the only way to become a modern is through emulation of the west [3 o n s equ e n t l y  w e  hypothesize that  H1: Greater perceived mimetic pressures will lead to higher utilisation of B2B technology in the Thai tourism industry  3.2.2 Coercive pressures  Coercive pressures refer to formal or informal pressures exerted on organisations by other organisations upon which they are dependent, and the cultural expectations in the society within which the organisations function 10  U s i ng a d va nc e d  computer systems to connect trading partners in an electronic supply chain may create resistance from trading partners in terms of the distribution of benefits. Integration may not provide the same benefits to all the parties [28 as can b e seen in th e  case of EDI, where the initiator firm may take a proactive role in convincing a smaller firm to adopt EDI by using the veiled threat of loss of business through their position of power in the interorganisational relationship [28 W e  therefore hypothesize  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


H2: Greater perceived coercive pressures will lead to higher utilisation of B2B technology in the Thai tourism industry  3.2.3 Normative pressures  Normative pressures highlight the assumption that a focal organisation within an interorganisational network may be influenced by the extent of technology diffusion among its suppliers and customers, and not necessary depend on its perception of the technology characteristics [10, 36  The sharing norms among members of a network can facilitate consensus which in turn increases the strength of these norm and result in a similar behaviou ce, in th e con t ext of B2B  technology adoption in Thailand, normative pressures faced by an organisation may be increased by a higher commonness of diffusion of B2B technology among its trading partners. Thus, we hypothesize  H3: Greater perceived normative pressures will lead to higher utilisation of B2B technology in the Thai tourism industry  3.2.4 Utilisation and Performance  One common theme underlying the various streams of research in B2B technology adoption and diffusion is the inclusion of perceptions of the firms  performance [e.g. 19, 29, 34 In addition  an oth e r common theme of research attempts to investigate the motivation for utilisation of the technology [e.g. 17 30, 43   One of the main issues of B2B technology adoption and diffusion in developing countries which was identified by previous research, is technology utilisation [16, 17, 24 rev i e w o f  literature found that B2B technology adoption in developing countries is still very limited and characterized by a slow uptake. The adoption of B2B e-marketplace and e-mail has been the focus of this research area. The primary use of B2B activities was limited to information exchange via e-mails  This research also aims to understand that linkage between isomorphic pressures on utilisation as well as performance of B2B technology. Utilisation refers to the behaviour of employing the technology in completing tasks and it is measured by the frequency of usag addition  a f o cus on perf or m a n c e  impact allows us to understand and determine the perceived benefits that Thai businesses gain from B2B technology utilisation. To serve the purpose of this research, performance impact refers to the perceived accomplishment of a portfolio of tasks by an organisation. It includes higher performance that leads to improved efficiency and effectiveness  In addition, the prime benefits promised by B2B technology diffusion in developing countries, which include wider and cheaper access to new business opportunities globally and reduction in transaction costs, are also included for assessing performance in the Thai context [15, 16, 24   T hus  w e h y p o t he si z e    H4: A higher utilisation of B2B technology will lead to a better performance of B2B technology  3.2.5 Control variables   Previous organisational level research on IT adoption and diffusion in developing countries, has suggested a number of factors to include as candidate control variables  1 Type of Internet access Different types of Internet access, for example dial-up, which provides slower speed connections than broadband, may impact on the utilisation of B2B technology as well as the firms performance T h u s th e t y pe of Internet access is controlled for in this research  2 Level of IT related skills and experience  Experience with technology is an important factor in the adoption and diffusion of new technology and it has been found to be positively related to utilisation Literature often indicates that firms that do not have staff with IT skills and experience are not likely to adopt and hence utilise the new technology   4. Research Method  The following section details our construct operationalization and data collection method  4.1 Construct Operationalization   We use the survey method to test the proposed research model. A survey instrument was developed by identifying appropriate measurements from the previous literature review. Some modification was made to suit the context of this study. Since the target population was tourism firms in Thailand, the questionnaire was translated into Thai using the backtranslation meth A ll o f th e con s tru c t s in the model are operationalised as reflective constructs Table 1 presents a summary of major constructs   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Table 1 A summary of major constructs Construct Description Ref Mimetic Pressures Refer to influences from competitors who adopt the B2B technology and are perceived favorably by their trading partners 36 Coercive Pressures Refer to the influences of powerful trading partners leading a firm to adopt and diffuse B2B technology 36 Normative Pressures Refer to the degree of technology usage by a firm s trading partners creating new norms for a firm to follow 36 Utilisation Refers to the behaviour of employing the technology in completing tasks and it is measured by the frequency of usage 12 Performance Refers to the perceived accomplishment of a portfolio of tasks by an organisation 12 16 24  4.2 Data Collection  The unit of analysis of this study is the Thai tourism industry. The tourism industry is one of the most important industries that contribute to the Thai economy [32, 38, 40 g to s t ati s tics provided by the Tourism Authority of Thailand TAT\ [3 e tou r is m in du s t r y con t ributed 367,380.36 million Baht \(about 11 Billion $US national income in 2005. The majority of firms in the Thai tourism industry are Small and Medium Enterprises \(SMEs\. These local SMEs play a major role in terms of economic contribution to Thai economic growth   The Thai government has emphasized the importance of e-commerce development in the tourism industry. The vision of TAT which underpins their ICT strategies has two thrusts: 1\se ICT as a marketing tool to build competitive advantages in terms of increasing the nation s income and improving the quality of services for tourists; and 2 to use ICT to enhance work efficiency and effectiveness thus driving down costs  Based on its vision, TAT was a pioneer in setting up a B2B e-marketplace for the tourism industry in Thailand, available at www.toursimemarketplace.com for local and overseas companies. The authority hoped that access to this website would provide a new channel to enable local companies to meet new trading partners worldwide. It provided online services for the participants such as search functions to find potential trading partners, member profiles, a message centre advertisements for package tours, web board for online negotiation, e-mail, and online auctions However, it had a very low utilisation rate. In August 2004, the TAT redeveloped and launched a new emarketplace, www.thaitravelmart.com. The new emarketplace is a similar concept to the previous one The main difference was the name of the website. In both cases, TAT encouraged voluntary use of the technology and offered these services free of charge The reasons of the failure of the previous have not yet been well studied [33, 26   The utilisation of the B2B technology seems to be a real issue effecting technology adoption and diffusion in Thailand. Despite the fact that the majority of firms in Thailand have adequate basic technical infrastructure including internet access, the B2B e-marketplaces have not been a success due to very low utilisation leading to poor performance [33 26  The target population for this study consists of the companies that have registered on the B2B emarketplace, www.thaitravelmart.com. According to the information provided by TAT in March 2005 there were 331 Thai tourism companies registered on the B2B e-marketplace across the country. These companies have been selected as they are likely to have had some experience in using B2B technology Information about these companies including the address and contact person for each company were kindly provided by TAT. In addition, all the survey questionnaires included a formal letter of support for this research from the Thai government  The survey questionnaires were sent out to firms between October 2005 and February 2006. The number of responses totaled 68 companies, which was a response rate of 20 percent. The majority of the respondents \(91 percent\were SMEs. The surveys were sent to employees who were responsible for using email and e-marketplace to communicate with trading partners. Table 2 presents the profiles of the responding firms and Table 3 presents the respondents demographics  The survey questionnaire was designed to collect attitude data towards B2B technology adoption and utilisation in the Thai tourism industry. It used the Likert scale. The Likert scale is widely used in instruments measuring opinion, belief and attitudes  k s t h e res pon dents  to ex pres s t h eir deg r ee o f  agreement/disagreement with issues. This research Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


adopts a seven point scale \(1=strongly disagree to 7=strongly agree\he data analysis method and results will be presented in the following section  Table 2 Profile of responding organisation Variables Category  N % Mean Annual revenue Baht 68  2,609,751 475 IT investment Baht 68  392,578 Sizes of companies employees Small \(1-50\ 40 59 Medium 51-200 22 32   Large \(>200 8 9  Type of Internet access Dialup 33 49   Broadband 30 44   Seattleite 3 4   Others 2 3   Experience with IT Number of years Experience with emarketplace 68  2.2 Experience with e-mail 68  4  Table 3 Respondent Demographics Variables Category Mean Years of experience with company 4.85 Level of IT related skills and experience No. of years using PC 9 No. of years using Internet 6 Knowledge/skills with e-mail 3 Knowledge/skills with e-marketplace 2.3 Measured by Likert scales of 1 \(min\ 5 \(max  5. Data Analyze and Results  5.1 Analysis Strategy   Partial Least Square \(PLS\as chosen for data analysis. The decision of whether to use PLS or the covariance-based approach was made based on the objectives of the research project. In this research, the PLS approach is preferable because of the suitability of the technique to the nature of this study. PLS provides better prediction capability and it can be used for analysis of a high complexity model with small sample sizes associated with a large number of independent variables. In addition, it has no requirement of a normal distribution assumption which suits the nature of the data collected [3   The PLS software used in the research is PLS-Graph Version 3.00\eloped by Wynne Chin, which is widely used in IS research  Several techniques are implemented to serve this purpose. The broad categories of the PLS model evaluation can be expressed as: assessing the structural model and the measurement model. For the structural model, techniques such as R-square, path coefficient, bootstrapping, di rect and indirect effect and moderating effect are discussed; while assessing the measurement model aims to ensure the validity and reliability of the model. The assessment techniques include loadings and weights, composite reliability, average variance extracted and crossloadings  5.2 Evaluating the Measurement Model  To ensure the accuracy of the structural model analysis, the validity and reliability of the scale development needs to be tested [6 T h e v a lid it y tes t  of the scale was conducted to evaluate the degree to which it measures what it is supposed to measure The results in Table 4 and 5 suggest that our measurement model demonstrates sufficient discriminant validity. Table 4 presents the results obtained via the bootstrapping procedure including PLS loading, weight and T-statistics. Chin [3 suggests that the loading should be greater than 0.707. As evident, all except two items, mimetic3 and mimetic4 were lower than 0.707. However, it was still in an acceptable range as a loading of 0.5 or 0.6 may still be acceptable in the early stage of scale developmen  In addition, Fornell and Larcke ested  that the discriminant validity can be evaluated by comparing the Average Variance Extracted \(AVE the latent variables and the correlations among the Latent Variables \(LVs\hey recommend that the AVE of the latent variables should be greater than the square of the correlations among the LVs. Table 5 shows that the square roots of AVE are greater than the corresponding of diagonal elements. This indicates that each measure was not tapping into different concepts. Moreover, the results of crossloadings analysis showed that the loading clearly separated each latent variable as theorized in the model. Thus, it is confirmed that the construct validity in this research has been met  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Table 4 Loadings for measurement model Construct and Items PLS loadin gs Tstatistics Signifi cance level Performance    Effectiveness 0.9419 43.0253 0.01 Important tool 0.9101 29.3866 0.01 Timeliness 0.9592 63.6851 0.01 Business opportunity 0.9302 37.1509 0.01 Reduce cost 0.8557 19.5193 0.01 Utilisation   Time spend on email by firm  hr/day 0.7691 4.4385 0.01 Email by respondent 0.7528 5.0517 0.01 Emarket by firm 0.8843 10.3352 0.01 Emarket by respondent 0.7025 4.2000 0.01 Mimetic    Competitors receive favorable perception when using  email by supplier 0.9395 4.1860 0.01 Email by customer 0.9892 3.9642 0.01 Emarket by supplier 0.6838 2.5457 0.01 Emarket by customer 0.6590 2.4056 0.01 Coercive    Forcefulness by  supplier to adopt email 0.9084 8.6880 0.01 Customer to adopt email 0.9523 11.5401 0.01 Supplier to adopt emarket 0.7624 4.3072 0.01 Customer to adopt emarket 0.7176 5.0281 0.01 Normative    Adoption level of  emarket by supplier   0.8562 15.7044 0.01 Emarket by customer 0.8925 18.8792 0.01 Email by supplier 0.8633 19.0809 0.01 Email by customer 0.8810 20.1574 0.01  Table 5  Correlation among major constructs Measures Performa nce Utilisatio n Mimetic Coerciv e N ormati ve Performance 0.920  Utilisation 0.044 0.779    Mimetic 0.307 -0.196 0.831  Coercive 0.131 -0.368 0.367 0.840  Normative 0.516 -0.246 0.421 0.091 0.873 Diagonal elements are square root of AVEs  Furthermore, the internal consistency of each dimension was assessed by computing Cornbach s alpha, composite reliability and AVE. Table 6 presents the results along these dimensions. All Cornbach s alpha and composite reliability exceeded the Nunnally s criterion of 0 h ile th e  AVE for these constructed were all above the recommended threshold of 0.5   Table 6 Assessment of internal consistency Dimensions Cornbach s Alpha Composite Reliability AVE Performance 0.925 0.965 0.847 Utilisation 0.780 0.861 0.608 Mimetic 0.921 0.896 0.691 Coercive 0.867 0.905 0.707 Normative 0.895 0.928 0.763  5.3 Testing the Structural Model  Following confirmation of the validity and reliability in the measurement model, an overview result of the structural model is presented in Figure 2 In addition, the statistical outcome of examining the hypotheses in this study obtained from PLS analysis is presented in Table 7   Figure 2.  Structural model results The predictiveness of the model can be assessed by the R 2 for dependent constructs. The R 2 value of 0.274 of the perceived performance indicates that utilisation and normative pressures accounted for 27.4 percent of the variance of the construct. In addition, the R 2 value of 0.255 of the utilisation indicates that mimetic, coercive and normative pressures accounted for 25.5 percent of the variance of the construct  In the structural model, path coefficients represent the predictive link among constructs. All the path coefficients between the research constructs are expressed in a standardized form to permit comparison of their relative strengths. To access the statistical significance of the path coefficients, a bootstrapping analysis was performed in order to estimate the precision of the PLS estimates. In all Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


500 sub-samples were created for the bootstrapping procedure [3    Table 7 Summary of path coefficients test  Actual Effect Path Coefficie nt Observed Tstatistics Signifi cance level Performance R 2 0.274    Utilisation 0.088 0.6649 NS Normative  0.538 5.5763 0.01 Utilisation R 2 0.255    Mimetic  0.238 1.0624 NS Coercive  0.315 2.4378 0.01 Normative  0.374 3.3657 0.01 NS = Not significant  Based on the analysis of path coefficients in the structural model, the results of this study supported hypotheses 2, and 3 that coercive and normative pressures had influence on the utilisation with significant at 0.01 level, while the hypotheses 1 and 4 were rejected. This implied that mimetic pressures did not have a significant influence on utilisation as well as the path coefficient between utilisation and performance  Furthermore, direct and indirect effect analysis was also employed for further investigation to find more meaningful results of relationships among the constructs in the structural model. Although the relationship between normative pressures and performance was not formally hypothesized, the analysis showed that normative pressures had a strong direct on the performance, but not coercive or mimetic pressures. The direct path coefficient between the normative pressures and performance was 0.538 at the 99 percent significant level. In facts it showed the strongest path coefficient in the structural model. In addition, the results demonstrated the increase of the predictive power for the model \(R 2 from 0.018 to 0.274, but it did not alter any of the significance levels of the path coefficient in the structural model   Control measures, which are type of Internet access and level of IT related skills and experience of staff were used to detect further patterns in the data The structural model with control variables revealed that all the control variables had no effect on performance and utilisation  6. Discussion Our interest in investigating the role of external isomorphic pressures, namely mimetic, coercive and normative pressures in B2B technology utilization and performance in the Thai tourism industry revealed some interesting findings. Unlike previous research findings th is s t u d y  f oun d t h at  mimetic pressures did not have any influence in the utilisation of B2B technology in Thailand. One possible assumption that could explain this nonsignificant relationship of mimetic influences is the fact that Thai firms operating in the tourism industry seem to perceive no successes emanating from the adoption and diffusion of B2B technology to their competitors, hence diminishing the significance of mimetic power. This could also imply that firms in Thailand are not considering the global competitive nature of the tourism industry, which could unveil the efficacy of collaborative B2B technologies abroad potentially increasing mimetic influences by demonstrating firms success in other countries. To that end, the Thai government may need to highlight success cases in Thailand and abroad  On the other hand, coercive pressures had a strong effect on utilisation of B2B technology, but had no significant effect on performance. This could imply that even if firms may have limited choice but to use B2B technology, they are yet to perceive any operational or strategic performance improvements or competitive gains promoted by this technology Interestingly, the results of the structural model showed a negative relationship between utilisation and coercive pressures. This implies that Thai businesses are not favorable of coercive power for B2B technology adoption and diffusion. This may be explained by the nature of the Thai people that do not like to be forced, symbolically denoted by the meaning of Thailand which literally translates to freedom land and where maintaining harmony and saving face are fundamental cultural values  In contrast, normative pressures exhibit the strongest influence on utilisation and performance This implies that the Thai firms would most likely utilise B2B technology if it s a common technology that their customers and suppliers are using and it is part of an emerging trend. It seems that such normative factors have more influence on utilisation and performance than mimetic or coercive pressures in this context. This is in-line with previous research findings asserting that Thai people tend to predominantly make decisions by following a norm and a majority of members in a social network  Consequently, the Thai government may consider applying an educational approach that highlights B2B benefits to firms, and allows B2B technology utilisation to organically improve and become the norm at least in the short to medium term. Over Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


time, more firms \(or supply chains\ay start realizing competitive advantages emanating from B2B technology. This could increase mimetic influences and coercive influences over the long run  In addition, the importance of normative pressures in the Thai business community can be accelerated by the strong interdependency between members within the Thai social network. Thailand is known as an interdependence orientation society or a collectivist society h e T h ai com m u n ity  values the spirit of community collaboration. Komin  ref e rs to th is as in terdepen d en ce orien tated T h ai society. Collaborative behaviour is a dominant behavioural pattern, particularly in the rural community, where the brotherhood spirit often manifests itself in helping one another and in being interdependent and mutually supportive. Hence, the findings on the importance of normative pressures are in-accord with previous research dicatin g  that norms espoused by the businesses environment play a major role in influencing organisations to adopt and utilise new technology. Interestingly, both of the previous studies were conducted in the Asian cultural context, namely Singa d C h in a  h ere collectiv is m s eem s to be a s t ron g cu ltu ral value  Overall, findings show that external institutional factors, normative and coercive pressures, have an impact on the B2B utilization, while only normative pressures had a significant influence on perceived performance of B2B technology. Similar to normative pressures seem to be the most significant factor influencing both utilisation and performance Both of the control factors, namely type of Internet access and level of IT related skills and experience of staff, did not have a significant influence in the model. This can also confirm the belief that the basic technical infrastructures such as telecommunications hardware and software are no longer a major problem in the adoption and diffusion of the internet-based B2B technology in Thailand  7. Limitation and Future research Since this study was conducted in Thailand, it may limit the generalizability of our results beyond the Thai cultural context. Eventhough there are similarities among several Thai cultural values and other Asian countries, one cannot confidently assume that the results will be applicable to all Asian countries. Moreover, our findings may also have limited applicability beyond the tourism industry Another limitation is that subjects of this study were representatives of the sub-population of firms that already had some \(often limited\xperience in adopting and utilising e-mail and e-marketplace technologies. These firms tend to have higher technological readiness than non-adopters. However within our scope of study, it can be argued that the researchers may have difficulty in obtaining useful information from the non-adopters as they have no experience in using B2B technology  Future research in this domain can be extended in a number of ways. A duplication of this study can be done using a larger sample size, a variety of industrial contexts and a variety of countries particularly in western contexts characterized by individualism rather than collectivism. This will help strengthen the validity of this research. A better understanding of such isomorphic pressures may well lead to an improvement in B2B technology adoption utilisation, and performance  8. References 1 R. Brislin  B a c k tra n sla tion f o r c r oss-c u ltura l research Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology vol 1, pp. 186-216, 1970  K Bu rke T h e I m p act o f F i r m S i ze o n Int ern e t Use i n  Small Businesses Electronic Markets vol. 15, pp. 79 93, 2005  W  Ch i n  Issu es an d op i n i o n on s t ru ct u r al equ a t i o n  modeling MIS Quarterly vol. March, 1998  W  Ch i n   P erson a l co mm u n i cat i o n t o t h e research er in conversation at the University of New South Wales,"  Australia, 2006 5 W  Chin, B  Ma rc oli n a nd P. Ne w s te d, "A pa rtia l le a s t squares latent variables modeling approach for measuring interaction effects: Results from a Monte Carol simulation study and an electronic-mail emotion/adoption study Information Systems Research vol. 14, pp. 189-217, 2003 6 G  Churc hill  A pa ra digm  f o r de v e loping be tte r measures of marketing constructs Journal of Marketing Research vol. 16, 1979 7 L  Cornba c h   T e s t V a lida tion   in Educational Measurement vol. 2nd edn, R. Thorndike, Ed Wahsington D.C.: American Council on Education 1971, pp. 443-507 8 Q  D a i a nd R K a uf fm a n  B us ine s s m ode ls  f o r Internet based B2B electronic markets International Journal of Electronic Commerce vol. 6, pp. 41-72 2002 9 R. F. Dev e llis Scale Development: Theory and Applications USA: SAGE, 1991 10  P. J  D i Ma g g i o a n d W  W   P o w e ll T he Iron Ca g e  Revisited: Institutional Isomorphism and Collective Rationality in Organisational Fields American Sociological Review vol. 48, pp. 147-160, 1983 11 C. For n e ll a n d D. L a rc k e r E va lua ting struc tura l equation models with unobservable vriables and measurement error Journal of Marketing Research vol. 19, 1981 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


12  D  G oodh ue a n d R  L  T hom ps on  T as k tec hnol og y  fit and individual performance MIS Quarterly pp 213-236, 1995 1 P  Hem p el an d Y Kw o n g  B2 B  e-co mmerc e in  emerging economies: i-mental.com's non-ferrous metals exchanges in China Journal of Strategic Management vol. 10, pp. 335-355, 2001 14 G   Ho fsted e Cultures and organisations: Software of the mind USA: McGraw-Hill, 1991 1 J. Hu m p h r ey   B u s in ess to bu sin e ss e-co mm erc e an d  access to global markets: exclusive or inclusive outcomes?," 2002, Retrieved: 27 September 2004 from  www.gapresearch.org/production ecommerce.html 16  J  H u m phre y R. Ma ns e ll, D   P a re a nd H  Sc hm itz  The reality of e-commerce with developing countries.", 2003. Retrieved: 27 September 2004, from www.gapresearch.org/production/ ecommerce.html 17 L  M. H unte r  C. J  K a s o ul, K  G  Ce luc h a n d K  A   Curry, "A classification of business-to-business buying decision: Risk importance and probability as a framework for e-business benefits Industrial Marketing Management vol. 33, pp. 145-154, 2004 1 A  In trap airo t and A  S r ivih o k  T h e e-co mmerce o f  SMEs in Thailand," in E-Commerce and Culture Values T. Thanasakit, Ed.: IDEA Group Publishing 2003, pp. 119-219 19  F. K a e f e r a nd E. B e nd oly   M e a sur i ng t h e im pa c t of  organisational constraints on the success of businessto-business e-commerce efforts: a transactional focus Journal of information and Management vol. 41, pp 529-541, 2004 20 T  Koa nna ta k ool E v a lua ting Na tiona l E-c o m m e r c e  Strategies," in the Joint UNCTAD-UNESCAP AsiaPacific Regional Conference on E-commerce strategies for development Bangkok, Thailand, 2002 21 S Ko m i n   Psychology of the Thai People vol. 2nd edn. Bangkok, Thailand: National Institute of Development Administration \(NIDA\, 1991 2 H L i an g N S a raf  Q Hu  an d Y Xu e  A ssi m i l a tio n  of enterprise systems: the effect of institutional pressures and the mediating role of top management MIS Quarterly vol. 31, pp. 59-87, 2007 23 K   Ma hb uba ni Can Asian Think Singapore: Time Books International, 1998 24  S. M o o d le y  T he pote n tia l of Int e rne t ba s e d b u s i ne s s to-business electronic commerce for a 'technology follower': the case of the South African apparel sector International Journal of Internet and Enterprise Management vol. 1, 2003 2 NE C T C  i o n a l E l e ct ro ni c and Co m p u t er Technology Center, "Thailand ICT Indicators Ministry of Science,        Technology and Environment, Ed. Thailand, 2005 26  S. N g a o rung s i IT D i re c t or of the  T ouris m  A u thority  of Thailand, author, Ed. Bangkok, 2004 27 P. O Re illy a nd P  Fi nne g a n P e r f o r m a n c e in Electronic Marketplaces: Theory in Practice Electronic Markets vol. 15, pp. 23-27, 2005 28  P. G  P r e m k u m a r I nte r org a nis a tion s y s t em s a nd supply chain management: An information processing perspective Information systems management vol summer, 2000 2 S  Rao  C   P e rry  an d L  F r azer T h e i m p act o f  Internet use on inter-firm relationships in Australian service industries Australasian Marketing Journal vol. 11, 2003 3 M  Rask an d H Kragh  M o t i v es f o r em a r k et p l ace participation: Differences and similarities between buyers and suppliers Electronic Markets vol. 14, pp 270-283, 2004 3 S  Ro tc h a n a kitu m n u a i an d M   S p eece B arriers to  Internet banking adoption: a qualitative study among corporate customers in Thailand International Journal of Bank Marketing vol. 21, pp. 312-323 2003 32  S. Sa ha de v a n d N  Is la m   E x p loring the  determinations for e-commerce usage in the hotel industry in Thailand: An empirical study Information Technology & Tourism vol. 7, 2005 3 S  S o o r an gu ra  P r esi d en t o f t r avel agen t asso ci at i o n  o f  Thailand, author, Ed. Bangkok, 2004 34 M. R Su bra m a ni H o w Do Sup p lie rs Be ne f it f r o m  Information Technology Use in Supply Chain Relationships MIS Quarterly vol. 28, 2004 35  M. R   Su br a m a n i a nd N   Ve nk a t r a m a n S af e g ua r d ing  investments in asymmetric interorganisational relationships: Theory and evidence Academy of Management Journal vol. 46, pp. 46-62, 2003 36 H  H  T e o, K  K  W e i, a n d I. Be n b a s a t  P re dic t i n g  intention to adopt interorganisational linkage: An institutional perspective MIS Quaterly vol. 27, pp 19-49, March 2003 37  H  H  T e o a nd C  R a ng a n a t ha n  A dopte r s a nd no nadopters of business to business electronic commerce in Singapore Journal of Information Management 2004 38  TA T  ourism  A u thority of T h a i la nd I nc om e expenditure report of tourism sector in year 2005 TAT, Ed. Thailand, 2005 39 E. T u rba n D  K i ng J  L e e  M. W a rk e n tin, a n d H   Chung Electronic Commerce: A managerial perspective USA: Prentice hall, 2002 40  U N C TA D  U n ite d N a tion Co nf e r e n c e on T r a d e a nd Development, "E-Commerce and Development Report," UNCTAD, Ed., 2005 41  S Va ta na s a k d a k ul J  D Ambra An Exploratory study of the socio-cultural impact on the adoption of e-commerce for firms in the tourism industry of Thailand, 14th European Conference on Information System, Goteborg, Sweden, 2006 42  S Va ta na s a k d a k ul J  D Ambra A conceptual model for e-commerce adoption in developing countries: a task-technology fit perspective International Journal of Information Technology and Management  vol. 6, no.2-4, 2007 43  D  L  Za ha y a nd R. B. H a ndf ie ld  T he role of le a r ning  and technical capabilities in predicting adoption of B2B technologies," Industrial Marketing Management, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 627, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


