Using Knowledge Management Systems to Structure Knowledgeable Practices   Chad Saunders University of Calgary chad.saunders@haskayne.ucalgary.ca   Mike Chiasson Lancaster University m.chiasson@lancaster.ac.uk   Abstract The purpose of this study is to explore the role of knowledge management systems \(KMS\ in structuring knowledgeable practices within organizations Specifically, we consider how intellectual property lawyers use knowledge management systems to 
structure the practice of patenting We employ an interpretive case study focused on the knowledge management practices and systems employed by intellectual property lawyers at one site of a large Canadian law firm.  Interview, document and observational data were collected during a 15month period from September 2004 to November 2005 Using a practice lens, the lawyers employed four technologies-in-practice to structure their use of knowledge management technologies: \(i collaboration, \(ii\ delegated use, \(iii\ conversion, and iv\ improvisation. The lawyer s knowledgeable activity emerged around various contested spaces delineated by these technologies-in-practice.  Where 
the lawyers added the most va lue for their clients by navigating these contested knowledge spaces advanced digital technologies were often absent    1. Consequences of KMS  The motivation for this study is based upon the desire to counter, at least partially, two trends within the extant knowledge management \(KM\iterature that are potentially limiting our understanding of how knowledge management systems \(KMS\ are implicated in organizational change. First, are the paradoxical consequences of KMS that arise within a 
range of technologies and practices. Second, the focus within the KMS literature on digital information technology \(IT\abled KMS to the detriment of consideration of non-digital enabled practices The consequences of knowledge management systems \(KMS\ in organizations have been considered from a range of perspectives.  Numerous authors have focused on the consequences of these systems for organizational structure and form as highlighted by the knowledge based view of the firm [6,14,17,2  
this regard, new organizational forms have appeared in the literature to more effectively exploit knowledge resources of knowledge based organizations: adaptive  hy bri d [30 f l exf o r m 39], v i rt u a l 20  postmodern prof es s i on al part n e rs h i p P2 16 an d managerial professional business th es e organizations, KMS are hypothesized to replace the hierarchical bureaucracies and to allow the development of new organic corporations, while in practice, these systems are not necessarily a key or even the most important element in such organizational change [4   
Other authors consider the consequences of KMS in terms of organizational culture.  For example Doherty and colleague m i s e t h e i r w o r k on t h e  impact of data warehouses on IT-induced cultural change, but conclude that IT rarely delivers a quick fix.  In this regard, Avison re j ect th e v i e w o f  culture as a well defined object with hard and fast boundaries, popular in much of the KMS literature and instead adopt an anthropologist s perspective whereby cultures are contested, ever changing and emergent, invented and reinvented in social life 
Similarly, Robey and Azevedo [31 t to cu ltu ral  analysis in emphasizing the importance of socially constructed meanings and their relationship to IT s material properties. The consequences of IT are largely indeterminate since a variety of meanings can be ascribed to the technology, and it is not an autonomous determinant of organizational form or process A third area where the consequences of KMS are often hypothesized is with respect to organizational learning.  That is, learning organizations achieve 
higher performance through their ability to learn from past experiences a nization a l lear n i n g s e e k s  to explain how organizations learn new responses and why they often fail to learn [2 T h e role of KMS i n  organizational learning is typically considered in terms of storage and retrieval and in supporting Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


training and the creation and communication of knowledge [37 a l t h o u gh  i r o n i c a l l y   t h e s e s y st e m s  might also disable organizational learning when faced with changing environmental conditions A fourth consequence hypothesized within the literature is between KMS and politics, power and control within organizations.  For example, Lynn Markus explicated divergent theories of resistance and demonstrated how the same financial system had contradictory consequences in a single organization due to differing political inte a recen t  review, Jasperson and colleagues ti fy  contradictory views of the relationship between power and IT impacts. Wanda Orlikowski  how the same technology that facilitated integrated and flexible operations also enabled a disciplinary matrix of knowledge and power. While IT is often hypothesized to loosen the hierarchical stranglehold it can also reinforce or strengthen them.  Peter Gray  o tes th at m u ch of t h e KMS res earch poin t s to the ability of KMS to positively impact power relationships with little consideration for the negative impacts A fifth consequence considered by many KMS researchers is in supporting the creation, transfer, and application of knowledg i an d L e id n e r [1 draw upon the sociology of knowledge to conceptualize organizations as knowledge systems that represent both the cognitive and social nature of organizational knowledge and its embodiment in the individual s cognition and practices, as well as in the collective practices and cultur recen t rev i e w of knowledge management studies published in the leading information systems journals indicates that the majority of research focuses on knowledge transf T h e au th ors dev e lop an an al y t ical  framework based upon two of the most influential knowledge management studies [1,8  i n o r d e r t o  identify five core constructs of knowledge management.  The five constructs and the approximate distribution of coverage by topic within academic journals are \(i\knowledge creation 13 ii\nowledge storage and retrieval 22%, \(iii knowledge transfer 39%, \(iv\ knowledge application 16% and \(v\owledge roles and skills 10%. The authors posit that the focus on knowledge transfer is based on an assumption that digital information technologies support such processes and that many IS researchers focus on the medium rather than the process   Within the extant literature the consequences of knowledge management systems are contradictory in that in some studies the expected consequences do not occur; different consequences result from the use of nearly identical technologies in comparable settings and contradictory consequences result from the same technology.  In the next section we draw upon recent theorizing to explore one approach for addressing such contradictory findings  2. Embracing contradiction through interplay and oppositional logics  Contradiction is a general term referring to a statement expressing or asserting the opposite of another statement [32  F o r e x am p l e   paradox irony hypocrisy, oxymoron, conflict, inconsistency, double bind and dilemma are all types of contradiction Robey and Boudreau iden tify a num ber of strategies for resolving inconsistent findings within and among studies.  These include the revisiting of definitional assumptions, employing alternate research methods, and adopting theoretical logics that accommodate contradiction in observed phenomena While contradictions are generally viewed negatively as something to be resolved, they also are an opportunity for researchers to explore alternate conceptualizations m a de f i n ition a l  perspective, focusing excessively on digital IT-based KMS, researchers often ignore the numerous and important non-digital IT aspects. Recent calls to reemphasize the IT artifact in research  consistent with the need to consider the socially embedded IT artifact where does it come from, who produced it, who developed it, and how is it used in particular practices. Thus within the IS field there is a recognition by some that not all knowledge tools are computer based 33  P a r alleling argum en t s th at  information systems are not necessarily digitally ITbase a v e lead s o m e res earch ers to m o re  broadly define KMS in terms of people, technologies manual and computer based\d knowledg Conceptualized in this manner KMS are viewed more dynamically in terms of both digital and non-digital based systems implicated in a range of knowledge processes  KMS are often positioned as a determinant of radical organizational change, which once implemented, transform the organization s key processes.  This deterministic logic for the structuring role of information technology has been critiqued, and instead a more complex relationship purported between information technology and organizations that is emergent and reciprocal in nature 9,19,22,24,27,3 res pon s e t o t h e do m i n a n t  deterministic logic guiding much research on the consequences of information technology, Robey and Boudreau pos e that res earch ers e m plo y  alternative causal approaches, and offer oppositional Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


logic as one method that is potentially better able to account for contradictory outcomes of information technology in organizations. Oppositional logic explains organizational change by considering opposing forces that respectively promote and oppose social change, which is in contrast to a logic of determination that explains change as the consequence of variation in a set of predictor variables T h u s rat h er t h an re s o lv i n g e m pirical  contradictions and searching for consistency in information technology s effects on organizations, a logic of opposition approach resolves the problem  of contradictory research results by using theoretical positions that are able to account for the findings actually observe T h is in deter m i n ac y does n o t  imply that organizational consequences of information technology are incomprehensible or unpredictable but instead the use of these theories facilitates the identification of opposing forces and the analysis and interpretation of the complex social processes of organizational change Robey & Boudreau de t h eir article b y  noting that structuration theory \(ST\ incorporates oppositional logic directly through the concept of duality of structure For Giddens t ru ctu r e is defined as rules and resources, recursively implicated in the reproduction of social systems.  Structure exists only as memory traces, the organic basis of human knowledgeability and as instantiated in action p.377\The relationship between agency and structure is redefined in terms of the duality of structure, which implies that structure shapes people s practices, but these practices reciprocally constitute and reproduce these structures.  Since agents are knowledgeable and enabled by structure, they choose to enact structures in both old and new ways, thus contributing to and transforming the very structures that informed their action in the first place Giddens u gg es t s t h at ST c o n cepts s h o u ld be regarded as sensitizing devices, to be used in a selective way in thinking about research questions or interpreting findings \(p.213\.  We take this approach in the study presented in the next section  3. Research design  We address the research question of how do intellectual property lawyers use knowledge management systems to structure the practice of patenting?  To address this question we employed an interpretive case study focused on the knowledge management practices and systems employed by the professionals within the Intellectual Property Group at one site \(Site A\ of a large Canadian law firm. In employing an interpretive case study, this research primarily focused on the meaning of the knowledge management practices for the participants.  The study focused on the KM practices of three lawyers Participants L1-L3\who were also patent agents and one paralegal \(P\which we collocated at the primary research site, denoted Site A.  In addition the CIO for the Firm participated in the study, but was located at Site B in another city.  The study relied upon observations, interviews and document review of legal case files, which represented an ongoing record keeping of the intellectual property group.  To narrow the scope of the study while facilitating the depth of data needed, ten information technology patent cases were selected that covered the range of outcomes for the patenting process \(e.g., patent drafted, abandoned, pending, issued occurred over a 15-month period from September 2004 to November 2005.  The first author was onsite for varying durations between April 2005 and November 2005, on average three days per week during which time he was able to conduct the case file review that in turn motivated multiple rounds of observation and interviews.  Data were collected at multiple levels within the Firm and from the broader literature on the patenting industry and the role of patenting in society.  The primary data collected consisted of three bankers boxes of case file data and approximately 20 hours of interview data, which were transcribed into 400 double-spaced pages of interview notes Structurational analysis involves studying the modes in which social systems, grounded in the knowledgeable activities of situated actors who draw upon rules and resources in diverse action contexts are produced and reproduced in interaction h is  was accomplished though the technologies-in-practice lens [27 h i c h w h i l e n o t  deny i n g t h e  i m port an ce  of the technological artifact, places renewed emphasis on human agency, in that while technology can embody particular symbolic and material properties structure is only instantiated in y  interacting with certain properties of a technology structures of technology use are recursively constituted and thus shape the set of rules and resources that then shape their interaction and it is these enacted structures of technology use that are termed technologies-in-practi th e n e x t  section we detail the findings from the study in terms of the technologies-in-practice identified  4. Findings  Drawing upon Orlikowski and Robey [27  t h e  four technologies-in-practice identified included Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


Collaboration, Delegated Use, Conversion and Improvisation.  When the professionals use a particular technology they draw upon the properties of the technological artefact and their skills, knowledge assumptions, and expectations about the technology and its use, influenced by their training communication and previous experiences  However, the professionals also draw upon other structures enacted in the use of the technology.  This is represented on the diagrams as nested and overlapping social systems implicated in the structurational analysis of each of the technologies-inpractice, as illustrated in detail for Collaboration Figure 1\ and Conversion \(Figure 2  4.1 Collaboration technology-in-practice  The professionals rely heavily on a range of information technologies to facilitate collaboration The collaborate environment is one of request-forcomment \(RFC\whereby one professional takes responsibility for drafting a particular document \(e.g patent application\ and then requests input from a particular individual on aspects of the document Participant L2 described the collaborative interplay as follows If you are doing it by paper then I would say usually you start on computer, you get it typed up, then you finally print it out and then that is when you start going over the iterations and once you are done the first four or five then you will get someone else to read it, they will make more changes, they will make another one or two sets of revisions Actually drafting a patent I find I do a lot of it on paper which is unusual because everything else I try to be paperless.  But it is difficult to have you want to have drawings in front of you so that you are describing the picture with respect to the drawings.  You need to have a numbers list or a parts list so you know all the different elements are and what number you have assigned to them so that when you are doing the detailed description you don t have to dig around to try to figure out if it s element 14 or 15.  You will have a separate list for that.  Then you probably have a pile of prior art as well to refer to as you are describing an element and then you will have the inventor s disclosure in front of you as well so you actually if you had seven computer screens in front of you that would work as well but in the absence of that it is very difficult, I find anyways, to just type it out and not have all those things in front of you.  Once you have six piles of things that you are referring to constantly and looking at then it is a lot easier to actually start writing out parts of the application  The person reviews the document and then offers comments back to the individual responsible.  Since the professionals charged for their time on an hourly basis other approaches to collaboration were viewed as an inappropriate use of their time.  The professionals needed to balance the benefits of insights gained from input from others with the extra time such activities can occupy. The collaborative activity is premised on the professional idea that collaborative work produces a better end product There is a strong mentoring orientation within the legal profession and the drafting of documents is an important occasion for mentoring opportunities.  This mentoring as part of the drafting process was evidenced in the billing practices The professionals were all extremely competent with a range of technologies, and employed these at various points for the purpose of collaboration.  The lawyer/patent-agents used email extensively to send documents to colleagues for comment or directed their colleagues to the folder containing the latest version of the document since they openly shared their files within the Site A Intellectual Property group All patenting cases considered were collaboratively developed using a range of technologies.  The patenting practice was dominated by drafting documents.  Primarily this consisted of starting with pen and paper notes during the early drafting stages as the lawyers outlined some of the details of the invention and the claims during phone and face-to-face meetings with the client.  This information was then converted to digital form \(i.e conversion\ whereby one of the lawyers continued to work on the patent draft alone \(using a word processor\ntil the document was developed to the point where they felt additional input was needed usually after several draft iterations working alone At that point the document was printed \(conversion and hand delivered it to a colleague to request comment.  The colleague, who was usually another lawyer during the early drafting stages, would then write comments in the margins and return the document to the lead on the case, who would then incorporate the changes in the document as they saw fit.  Sometimes the electronic document was emailed or provided via the file server/DMS to the other lawyer for digital mark-up but this was infrequent for the cases considered.  Other technologies implicated in collaboration were the Blackberry but this was used Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


primarily for email communication in which the lawyers, paralegal and client exchanged details related to various cases.  From the case file data, phone conversations, face-to-face meetings and email were approximately equally represented in these communications.  Email activity is likely underestimated in my data, however, since not all emails were printed and placed in the case file conversion\ or recorded as activities in the worklogs Interestingly, the DMS was infrequently implicated in collaborative activity for the cases considered.  This is not surprising for the cases that predate the rollout of the new DMS but for the cases that were active \(5 of the 10\ these findings are interesting given that the DMS was targeted at collaboration.  This is illustrated in Figure 1 below        Figure 1. Collaboration technology-inpractice  4.2 Delegated use technology-in-practice  The lawyers/patent-agents had considerable autonomy in their practices and were not easily convinced to use any particular information technology.  The hierarchical structure of the law firm placed the senior partners at the top, and it was impossible for other groups, and in particular the IT group, to impose any practices or information technologies onto the lawyers.  The time-based billing and incentive structure was such that there was considerable pressure on the individual professionals to maximize their billable hours but to do so within a professional way For some of the technologies available a particularly interesting technology-in-practice was delegated use.  All the professionals were proponents of technology use within their practice and they were all eager to use and test the latest technologies. The use of many technologies, however, was considered to be inconsistent with their needs or cumbersome to use in practice.  Enterprise wide applications in particular produced a dilemma for the professionals since the benefit for the organization is arguably only attainable if a critical mass of professionals and staff used them in their ongoing practice.  For example, with respect to the current intellectual property system and the new document management system Participant L1 noted I don t use it much.  I ll push it out.  I will ask Participant P to take my drafting and put it into the system and here it is electronically and I can monkey with it from there. I think the DM system will motivate more of that, which is a pity.  It takes too much time for me to do so  Similarly, Participant P noted with respect to the new document management system We have been using it almost grudgingly because I have found that the lawyers in my department have not been using it, they have been using the old system  Many of these systems hindered their individual practices, and so their motiva tion to record data into these systems for the greater organizational good  were difficult to justify, especially since clients were unwilling to pay for these activities. For example setting permissions on files or classifying documents within a document management system were not billable activities.  In those situations the professionals used the IT minimally, sporadically and perfunctorily, or more commonly delegated the use of the technology to someone else, either a paralegal or an assistant The use of the fax machine, photocopier and scanner was delegated to paralegals and assistants leaving the lawyers/patent-agents free to work on other activities for which they were able to bill.  The delegation of the use of these tools was consistent with the professional norms for the lawyers/patentagents since they were not really expected to be photocopying, faxing or scanning documents. The use of other systems such as the intellectual property management system or the new document management system were directed at professional use but aspects of the usage of these applications were also delegated to others For the patent cases considered there was a noticeable shift in the delegated use of technologies The lawyers typically delegated answering the phones for general inquiries, using the fax machine and photocopier and scanner since for the most part these activities were not billable.  However, the lawyers were increasingly doing their own typing of patents Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


since it could not be delegated or it was just as easy to do it themselves as part of the drafting process collaboration\ and email was placing increased demands on their time to respond to client requests as well as the numerous other email requests to the point where the lawyers were beginning to look for ways to delegate much of this usage.  Spending time responding to emails was partially billable for those communications that were related to specific cases however, the bulk of email was unrelated and filtering this began to take considerable time to the point where the lawyers began to rely less on email for their daily work practices and delegated or ignored responding to large quantities of their email. Instead the lawyers shifted to phone conversations and faceto-face meetings for specific cases \(thus the preference for printed documents when collaborating since an emailed document would be lost in the tide of daily emails\ The lawyers also delegated much of the data entry related to reco rding their billable time The lawyers simply recorded their time on paper log sheets and delegated the data entry to the paralegal or administrative assistant.  This was done on a weekly basis.  However, the most significant delegated usage observed in the cases considered was with respect to the new DMS.  The lawyers initially used the DMS and in fact spearheaded beta-testing it, but as it shifted to daily practice they rapidly began to delegate the use of this system to paralegal and later as new junior lawyers arrived to these individuals.  This was the most significant delegated activity from a knowledge management perspective since the senior lawyers with all the experience and contributions to the DMS were appearing to the IT group as users of the system \(i.e their case files showed up in the usage logs\t in fact it was the junior lawyers conducting the perfunctory practices required by the DMS, while never getting to the added value activities envisioned Ironically, the senior partner \(Participant L1\ the end did not even have access to the new DMS directly from his system, and delegated its use entirely to junior lawyers and the paralegal  4.3 Conversion technology-in-practice  A common technology-in-practice observed in practice was document and data conversion, where the professionals used various IT tools to convert between digital and analog media, as they deemed appropriate. For the same activity, the professionals chose to convert their work to analog while at other times they performed the same activity digitally. A typical example was drafting a document within a word processor, printing the document and then reviewing the printout and making handwritten notes in the margins and then revising the document electronically based upon their handwritten notes For example, Participant P notes the conversion activities associated with using the billing system designed for Site B for use at Site A Well, with Site B, first of all the bills are produced on Site B letterhead.  So I change that.  I change the format itself because they haven t provided us with a layout that we use in Site A and we like to be consistent.  The main thing is that the Law Society has dictated that photocopying and faxes, something that we just give an arbitrary number to, we charge the client 25 cents a page for photocopying, we charge the client a buck a page or whatever for faxes, it is not something that we are actually paying out, or disbursing out, so it is not a disbursement.  In the law society s eyes, it s an other charge, it s called Other Charges.  In Site B they just put it all under disbursements and we are not compliant with the law society if we produce a bill that says that.  So I have to create a whole new, well in the Word format, I have to create a whole new table, take out the other charges from the disbursements and then I have to recalculate each table to be the right number, which can be time consuming when you are doing 40 bills and you have to reformat the header and you have to reformat the layout  Conversions also occurred with respect to informal note taking as Participant L1 described What I used to do was do it on a computer and that s fine except your computer is not always available, you may be working on the computer in two different programs and be on the phone and something else and your piece of paper to scratch notes, as it turns out, has the highest utility, you can carry it with you  And with respect to drafting of the patent application as described by Participant L2 For a lot of people I think the most difficult part of drafting patents is the precision required, so if you are not doing it with everything in front of you there is a good chance you will need lots of re-work and that s no fun.  People that are really really into details may enjoy that but very few people want to proofread the same sentence or paragraph four times, even if the last time they didn t make any changes, to read it again Very difficult.  Best to be absolutely precise Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


the very first time you do it and I find the only way to do that is to have everything in front of you so that you know exactly what the parts are numbered and you have to use the exact same terminology throughout, the same numbering throughout because as soon as you change the terminology now you have got a problem.  And it just helps diagrammatically to draft as well so if you are doing an IT patent there are lots of flow charts involved, typically lots of methods, to be able to draw those on the fly helps as well.  Then to have the drawings to see how things are working helps you to describe the process rather than just describe the process out of thin air.  Of course we don t have good enough computer tools to do that yet.  If I had seven monitors and a tablet PC If I had that now you are talking, but in the absence of that I think it is tough to be as precise as you need to be without almost scratching it out in pen There is still a lot of printing.  So if I am doing a patent application and I want someone to look at it, I will print it out, I will put it in a file and give it to them.  It is much less likely that I will email it to them to review simply because each one of us gets so many emails a day, to go through it and to print everything out  These conversion activities occurred across many media.  An informal email might spawn an informal reply email letter or the generation of a formal printed report.  The professionals integrated the various technologies within the structures of the systems available.  The pressure to maintain billable hours and get the work done for clients in a professional manner often led to this mixing of digital and non-digital IT based practices in order to get their work done in a timely fashion and at a level of quality expected by their clients As noted above in the section on the collaborative technology-in-practice, conversion was highly prevalent in conjunction with collaborative work around drafting the patent.  But conversion was highly prevalent in all aspects of the patenting practice Conversion was evidenced in customer relationship management as various documents were created in digital form and converted to printouts or printouts were scanned into digital form for storage in the DMS.  Accounting data was regularly \(monthly printed from the financial management systems and provided to the lawyers to review before being converted to digital form in an updated invoice that was printed and mailed to the client.  Many of the activities related to filing were increasingly being converted to entirely digital form but during this study there was a mixture of digital and non-digital approaches in place necessitating ongoing conversions.  Beyond those activities related to drafting, conversion was primarily the responsibility of the paralegal.  This is illustrated is Figure 2 below Figure 2. Conversion technology-in-practice   4.4 Improvisation technology-in-practice  The intellectual property group within the Site A office had a sharing culture whereby files maintained on the in-house file server were openly available among the group.  An open door policy existed where it was usually for people to drop by another professional s office unannounced.  Numerous impromptu meetings were observed across the various levels of professionals.  There was a learning orientation within the group with respect to the use of the various technologies People learned by doing and while formal training was available on specific applications, for the most part the professionals were self-taught.  Part of this learning process consisted of sharing what they learned about IT with others in the group.  Despite considerable time pressures, the lawyers were always eager to try new technologies and often searched for new tools that might be beneficial to their practice The improvisation technology-in-practice represented the professional s use of these IT tools to play with new ways of working.  The professionals regularly experimented with new tools and considered how they might improve their practice The lawyers regularly improvised their use of technologies in order to experiment with new ways of getting their work done.  Participant P noted the response of the intellectual property group at Site A Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


when they finally cut over to the new document management system They told us that come the end of May we were no longer going to be able to save documents to where we used to save them but as far as I know we still can but I am presuming that everyone else doesn t know that because our group was part of the pilot group for the DM system so we have way more fun figuring out how to work around it then how to work with it  and the reaction when Participant P was unable to perform a specific task with the new DM  I can t save a pdf document from the Site B system onto my desktop but every other type of document I can so if I really want it I have to either email it to myself or attach it to an email.  So I have to email the draft, access that draft email from my Site A Outlook, not my Site B Outlook.  I found every trick in the book to get every little workaround  Improvisation was evidenced for a range of technologies including e-mail, word processor, phone DMS, and financial management systems.  Often these improvisations took the form of workarounds that the lawyers and paralegal developed to get their work done.  This was the case for the continued interaction with the financial systems that did not match the local practices.  However, these improvisations also took the form of innovations that improved existing practices or used the technologies in innovative ways.  This was seen in the lawyers  modifications of the time sheet or in building macros for use in their word processor, or in developing checklists for specific areas of practice.  While these improvisations were less prevalent than the other technologies-in-practice identified their importance should not be underestimated.  It is through these improvisations that the lawyers and paralegal were able to glue together the various technologies in an integrated way in order to get their work done.  These improvisations are also the site where changes in the practice were also evidenced with respect to technology usage  5. Discussion  The findings presented suggest a number of oppositional forces at play that are managed and balanced through these technologies-in-practice At the firm level, oppositional forces manifest as professional logics in opposition to emerging business logics. The oppositional pressures of the industry manifest within the Firm from the mergers and acquisition conducted in an attempt to attract and retain clients of national scope.  Organizing management to meet the needs of these clients in many respects is in opposition to professional forces to meet individual client needs.  That is, the increased management centralization is in opposition to the autonomy typically characterizing professional work This tension is echoed in the dual management responsibilities to the Firm and to individual offices which is further complicated by the matrix management structure that intertwines the senior partners in the regional offices with those at the centralized management team through various management committees.  Financial incentives emphasize local performance while non-monetary incentives are linked with meeting the Firm mandate since many of the interesting cases are those only the large firm can attract.  The increasing centralization while consistent with senior management objectives was also equally at odds with professional practices As the study came to a close, there was increasing opposition to these forces to change the practice to be more business focused The patent lawyers at each site represent a close knit group with practices, clients and technologies that are often in opposition with those of other groups in the Firm, even those that are, at least in name, in the same area of practice.  For the patent lawyers professional norms around the nature of collaboration autonomy, mentorship and the need to get work done on an individualized basis for clients are often in opposition with emerging business logics emphasizing the use of standardized practices increasing billable time and the expected use of enterprise technologies.  During the study the forces surrounding individual and local group allegiance remained strong despite ongoing initiatives to increase KM practices across the Firm Individual practices, while informed by societal rules and legislation, were more immediately influenced by ongoing practices of the individual and their colleagues within the same area and in the same office.  Thus for patenting, over time the business logics that began to dominate practice were slowly abated in favor of individual practices.  However these practices did not return to those observed at the beginning of the study as ongoing practices were increasingly informed by business logics, although not necessarily to the extent envisioned by senior management or the IT group. To a certain extent, the lawyers had obligations to their clients and their immediate colleagues within their group that outweighed those to Firm as a whole, without openly Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


defying firm level directives.  The lawyers were able to accomplish this through a strategic play of opposing forces.  So for example, by delegating the use of the DMS to their juniors they provided usage of the system that was partially in line with the senior partners desire for more control but this was unfortunately not the intended user of this system The intention was for the most experienced people in the Firm to share their knowledge across the organization but those most experienced chose not to use it and instead delegated that work.  It was not entirely a matter that it was cheaper to have the paralegals or juniors do the work.  Instead these practices entailed an interplay of opposing forces that gave rise to the delegation, which ironically was somewhat hidden behind the issue that it was cheaper for juniors to do it since this appeased both the professional and business logics at play The core knowledgeable activities of the patent lawyers consisted of their application of their knowledge to navigate three key areas of practice to derive value for their clients.  The first is in navigating the prior art to determine where the proposed innovation fits with the previous patented inventions and whether there is business value for their client to continue with a patent application.  The second is in drafting the claims to establish any novel contribution that can be claimed and how that fits into the business plans of the client.  Finally, negotiating with the patent office to refine the claims and understanding the opinions on the implications for proceeding.  For these core areas of knowledge work the lawyers did not rely upon what is typically viewed as knowledge management systems, instead they employed a range of digital and non-digital technologies, which collectively aided their knowledge work.  Surprisingly, many of the technologies directed towards these activities often impeded these practices leading to their delegation or discontinuance in favor of low tech solutions such as pen and paper and a clean desk on which stacks of documents could be organized To understand why the lawyers did not use these technologies to the extent envisioned by the organization we use the DMS to illustrate the observed differences across the three key knowledge practices.  In the case of prior art searching, the technology facilitated easy search of the prior art to the extent whereby this function was outsourced to an organization specializing in searching, leaving interpretation of the search results to the lawyers and thus not requiring use of the advanced DMS or other repositories directly by the lawyers.  Second, for drafting claims there was limited applicability of document reuse since the claims by their very nature of requiring novelty, did not lend themselves to the knowledge reuse motivation of the DMS.  Finally communicating with the Patent Office was not available electronically within this jurisdiction at the time of the study but furthermore, the intellectual activities of interpretation were not automatable and tended to be crafted based upon the specific conditions under which the client was working relying on information that was typically not entirely sourceable from documents in the DMS, relying more on experience and knowledge of the political climate industry trends and specifics of the current business plan of the client For the most creative activities of the lawyers, the knowledge management system employed did not consist of a single software application, and instead was a collection of digital and non-digital information technologies that were integrated in practice through an ongoing negotiation between the needs of the clients and demands of the work environment.  This is not to imply that digital-IT is irrelevant to KM for creativity but it does suggest that a greater consideration of non-digital IT in understanding the role of technology in creative work is warranted  6. Conclusions  Understanding technology-enabled creative activity requires insights into both the social and technical aspects of the practice and the interplay between the two.  Employing oppositional logics, like those incorporated into the technologies-in-practice lens via structuration theory, provide an opportunity to identifying forces both enhancing and impeding creativity within the organization so appropriate design of policy and technologies can be accomplished  7. References    l a v i  M  a n d D  E  Le i d n e r R e v ie w  K now le dge  Management and Knowledge Managment Systems Conceptual Foundations and Research Issuesé, MIS Quarterly, 2001. 25\(1\ pp. 107-136  r gyris C. a nd D  Sc h  n  O r ga niz a tiona l Le a r ni ng II   1996, Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley  v is o n D  E. a n d M.D  My e r s   I nform a tion S y s t e m s  and Anthropology: An Anthropological Perspective on IT and Organizational Cultureé, Information Technology People, 1995. 8\(3\. 43-56  ske rville R. a n d S Sm ithson  I nform a tio n  Technology and New Organizational Forms: Choosing Chaos Over Panaceasé, European Journal of Information Systems, 1995. 4: pp. 66-73  ske rville R., J. Tra vis a nd D. True x S yste m s  Without Methodé, in IFIP Transactions on the Impact of Computer Supported Technologies on Information Systems Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Development K. Kendall, K. Lyytinen, and J. DeGross Editors. 1992, North-Holland: Amsterdam. pp. 241-270 6 n e r K R an d C K P r a h alad  A Resou rce-b ased  Theory of the Firm: Knowledge Versus Opportunism Organization Science, 1996. 7\(5\: pp. 477-501 7 op er D J  et al  S ed ime n tation an d Tran sfo rmation in Organizational Change: The Case of Canadian Law Firmsé, Organization Studies, 1996. 17\(4\. 623-647  a ve npor t, T.H a nd L. Pr u s a k Worki ng k now le dge   1998, Boston: Harvard Business School Press 9 an ctis G and M S  P o o l e Cap t u ring t h e  Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theoryé, Organization Science, 1994. 5\(2 pp. 121-147  ohe rty  N  F a nd G  D o ig A n A n a l ys is of the  Anticipated Cultural Impacts of the Implementation of Data Warehousesé, IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 2003. 50\(1\. 78-88  Eis e nha rd t, K  M  B uild in g The orie s fr om Ca s e Stu dy  Researché, Academy of Management Review, 1989. 14\(4 pp. 532-550  a ll upe B  K n o w l e d g e m a na ge m e nt s y s t e m s   surveying the landscapeé, International Journal of Management Reviews, 2001. 3\(1\: pp. 61-77  i dde ns  A T h e C ons t i t utio n of S o c i e t y 19 84  Berkeley: University of California Press  r a n t, R  M  T ow a r d a K now le d g e ba s e d The or y o f  the Firmé, Strategic Management Journal, 1996. 17: pp 109-122  r a y P.H  T he im pa c t of know le dge re pos i t orie s o n  power and control in the workplaceé, Information Technology & People, 2001. 14\(4\. 368-384  G r e e n w o od, R  C  R  H i n i n g s  a nd J  B r ow n T he P 2  Form of Strategic Management: Corporate Practices in the Professional Partnershipé, Academy of Management Journal, 1990. 33: pp. 725-755  e dl un d, G  A m ode l of k now le d g e m a n a g e m e nt a n d  the N-form corporationé, Strategic Management Journal 1994. 15: pp. 73-90 18 Jasp erson  J   et al   Rev ie w: P o wer and I n fo rmation Technology Research: A Metatriangulation Reviewé, MIS Quarterly, 2002. 26\(4\ pp. 397-459  lin g, R Soc ia l a n a l ys e s of c o m putin g: the ore tic a l  perspectives in recent empirical researché, Computing Surveys, 1980. 12: pp. 61-110  c k e n z i e  K V irtu a l Positio ns a nd Powe r   Management Science, 1986. 32\(5\: pp. 622-643  rk us, M.L  P owe r, Politic s, a n d MIS  Implementationé, Communications of the ACM, 1983 26\(6\p. 430-444  rk us M.L. a n d D  R obe y   I nform a tion Te c h nol og y  and Organizational Change: Causal Structure in Theory and Researché, Management Science, 1988. 34\(5\ pp. 583-598  r lik ow s k i  W I nte gra t e d Inform a tion E n v i ro nm e n t  or Matrix of Control? The Contradictory Implications of Information Technologyé, Accounting, Management Information Technology, 1991. 1: pp. 9-42  r li kow s k i, W  U s i n g Te c hnol og y a n d C ons tit uti ng  Structures: A Practice Lens for Studying Technology in Organizationsé, Organization Science, 2000. 11\(4\ pp. 404428  r lik ow s k i, W  a nd D  C. G a s h  T e c hnolo gic a l  Frames: Making Sense of Information Technology in Organizationsé, ACM Transactions Information Systems 1994. 2: pp. 174-207 26 Orli k o w s k i W  and  C S  Iaco no  Research  Commentary: Desperately Seeking the "IT" in IT Research A Call to Theorize the IT Artifacté, Information Systems Research 2001. 12\(2\: pp. 121-134  r l i k o w s ki W. a n d D  R obe y I nf orm a tio n  Technololgy and the Structuring of Organizations Information Systems Research, 1991. 2\(2\pp. 143-169  s t e r loh  M. a nd B.S  Fre y  M otiva ti on, K n ow le d g e  Transfer, and Organizational Formsé, Organization Science 2000. 11\(5\: pp. 538-550 29  P each ey  T  D J Hall an d  C Ceg ielsk i  Kn o w ledg e  Management and the Leading Information Systems Journals: An Analysis of Trends and Gaps in Published Researché, International Journal of Knowledge Management, 2005. 1\(3\: pp. 55-69  o well, W., çHy b ri d Or ganizational A rrangements New Form of Transitional Development?é, California Management Review, 1987. 30\(1\. 67-87  o be y, D  a nd A  A z e v e d o  C ultura l A n a l ys is  of the  Organizational Consequences of Information Technology Accounting, Management & Information Technology, 1994 4\(1\. 23-37  obe y, D  a n d M.-C  B o ud re a u  A c c ounti ng for the  Contradictory Organizational Consequences of Information Technology: Theoretical Directions and Methodological Implicationsé, Information Systems Research, 1999. 10\(2 pp. 167-185  u g g le s  R T he Sta te  o f the N o ti on: K now le d g e  Management in Practiceé, California Management Review 1998. 40\(3\: pp. 80-89  hultz e  U  a nd D  E  Le id ne r S tu dyi ng K now le d g e  Management in Information Systems Research: Discourses and Theoretical Assumptions MIS Quarterly, 2002. 26\(3 pp. 213-242 35  S c h u l tze U and W   Orlik o w sk i  A P r actice Perspective on Technology-Mediated Network Relations The Use of Internet-Based Self-Serve Technologies Information Systems Research, 2004. 15\(1\p. 87-106 36 S e ng e, P  M T h e F i fth Discip lin e. 19 90 New Yo rk   Currency Doubleday  Ste in E.W a n d V  Zw a s s   A c t ua liz ing O r ga niz a tio na l  Memory with Information Systemsé, Information Systems Research, 1995. 6\(2\: pp. 85-117 38 To f f l er  A  Th e Ad ap t i v e Co r p or at i o n 19 85  New York: McGraw-Hill  o ffle r A  P o w e rs hift K now le d g e  We a lth a n d  Violence at the Edge of the 21st Century. 1990, New York Bantam 40 Yates J an d J Van  M aan en  I n fo rmation T echn o l o gy and Organizational Transformation - History, Rhetoric, and Practice. 2001, Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications Inc  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11  Impact \226 Strauss\222s Derivative of Moore The impact of such a simple statement is at the same time beautiful and difficult to realize.  What this is telling the designer is that 223For any technology selected, mass and power of any data recorder design will remain relatively constant even as mission data demands increase from one generation to the next.\224  What it Means For all intents and purposes, the \223fit\224 of the SSR can remain relatively constant throughout the years \226 that as the required capacity doubles, the media meets the challenge at the same pace.  Therefore, assuming a recorder of Size X  bits today and performing mass and volume predictions on that design, moving that recorder ahead several generations will result in the same mass and volume, even though the capacity of the data recorder increases exponentially Technology Comparison Table 2 is a compendium of known, published technologies in use or in development today enabling a comparison of any one technology listed for specific attributes against another.  In this stoplight chart, red indicates disfavorable attributes, green equals favorable, and yellow indicates cautionary acceptance.  It can be easily seen that in terms of memory technology for space, the selection is limited \226 especially so when it comes to non-volatile radiation hardened devices Part II 6  H IGH C APACITY S OLID S TATE R ECORDER  The impetus of this paper was the assignment to predict mass, power, volume, and cost for multi-terabit data recorders of the capacities shown in Table 3 with deliveries occurring in the year given [2   Table 3 - Data Recorder Capacity Requirements YEAR DATA CAPACITY 2010 2.88 Tb 2020 30 Tb 2030 130 Tb  This part of the paper presents a design of a 130 Tb NonVolatile data recorder which could be built for delivery in the year 2030, based on the information presented in Part I In developing the SSR design, technology selection was limited to the two technologies examined in detail in Part I Flash and NROM\nd a technology freeze date of 36 months in advance of delivery was assumed  SSR \226 Flash & NROM Based designs Table 4 - ITRS predicted device capacity \(Gb for three technologies Year 2015 2018 2021 2025 Technology CRAM 0.032 0.064 0.064 0.128 NROM 4 8 16 32 Flash 64 128 256 512  In this particular case, the year 2025 is selected as the freeze date and appropriate device capacity is used.  The ITRS is predicting that by the year 20 25, CRAM-based devices will have a capacity of 128 Mbit per die; NROM will have 32 Gb per die. Flash will be available at 512 Gb per die [9 Table  5 highlights the number of die necessary of three discussed technologies to achi eve a recorder of specified capacity in the timeframe given Table 5 - Minimum Device Count by Technology to achieve a Data Recorder of Specified Capacity in the Year shown.  \(Example, a 30 Tb recorder being designed in the year 2020 would require 468,750 CRAM devices or 1,875 NROM devices, or 118 Flash devices  Therefore, a 130 Tb data recorder designed using devices predicted available in the year 2030, would require the following number of devices \226 not including any additional devices used for Error Detection and Correction \(EDAC\ or sparing and word control 200  CRAM: > 1 million devices Year Recorder Capacity CRAM 4Mb NROM 1Gb Flash 16Gb 720,000 2,880 180 64Mb 16Gb 256Gb 468,750 1,875 118 128Mb 32Gb 512Gb 1.02E+06 4,063 254 Required Not Reqiured Required EDAC Technology / Device Capacity /Chip Count 2010 2020 2030 2.88 Tb 30 Tb 130 Tb 


 12  200  NROM: approx 4060 devices 200  Flash: approx 256 devices By examination, it can be easily seen that developing a high capacity data recorder as pr oposed using CRAM technology is impractical Error Detection and Correction Codes  All technologies are subject to lo ss of information, be they the loss of a single bit or the loss of an entire chip, the inclusion of Error Detection and Correction is an appropriate action by any system designer Just by using EDAC, there is an associated bit-penalty ranging from a few percentile to over 25 per cent   The exact selection of most-appropriat e Error Correction codes is highly dependent upon error phenomena not only for each  rt ain aspects of the exact part being considered as well as the environment to be encountered [2  25  F o r t h e reco rde r  de scri be d bel o w a Reed-Solomon code was selected.  It is important to note that this may not be the prime candidate, but was chosen for known characteristics Selection of a more appropri ate EDAC code [2 w oul d  most assuredly, bring about a reduction in recorder mass and power One final, important, distinction between the two prime technologies is required The NROM devices analyzed for this paper have built-in an incredibly powerful error detection and correction machine, capable of detecting four bits in error in a single word, and correcting three bits per word [10  W i t h th is m e th od t h e Bit Error Rate is calculated by the manufacturer to be less than 1.18E 19  errors/bit-day \226 equivalent to 3 unrecoverable bit errors every 550 years for the entire recorder; therefore, the package numbers presented here do not include extra devices required for EDAC other than that provided by the chip itself Table 6 - HC-SSR Basic Features 200  Redundant SpaceWire interfaces 200  Redundant Power Converters 200  Redundant Controllers/Supervisors 200  Multi-plane Non-volatile storage 200  Error detection and correction 200  Device isolation to the EDAC Word  Figure 18 - HC-SSR Conceptual Block Diagram 


 13  7  H IGH C APACITY SSR  D ESCRIPTION  Block Diagram  A block diagram of a recorder meeting all requirements listed in Table 6 is shown as Figure 18.  The recorder features cross-coupled SpaceWire interfaces as well as redundancy down to the memory plane Cross-coupled controllers w ith shared memory ensure operation without the need to re-build memory allocation tables should a fault occur Recorder Summary  Using conservative packaging techniques, two recorder designs were developed: one using Flash memory and the other using NROM.  A summary of their characteristics is provided in the tables below.  A more detailed discussion of design and implementation follows Board Design  Figure 19 - One side of 8Tb Memory Slice using NROM Technology The NROM-based solution is presented as Figure 19.  In the figure, nearly two hundred 2-Gbit NROM devices are installed on each face of the 9U card.  \(The whitespace is preserved in this example for passive components and design margin.\e time of this writing, the availability of chip-stacked NROM devices was uncertain and omitted from the trade space Design of a Flash-based memory card would be of similar ilk.  Device density would permit the use of a 6U card Compare the number of devices required for each design as given in Tables 7 and 8 Table 7 - NROM-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 9U  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  14 ea Size, 9U 6  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Mass  10 kg 7  Power  30 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel Space Wire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(Sparing extra Devices  4060 32 Gb die    6 IEEE 1101.1-1998 7 Assumes worst case devices are operable to expected regime without shielding 


 14  Table 8 - Flash-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 6U  Approx 28 x12.7 x 25 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  4 ea Mass  3.5 kg  Power  6 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel SpaceWire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(EDAC Sparing extra Devices  254 512 Gb \(not incl EDAC  Controller Board  Figure 20 - Controller Card Layout \(Violet = Shared Memory  Figure 20 shows one of many possible methods of design for an IO controller slice.  The IO controller slice provides redundant SpaceWire interfaces and redundant interfaces to the backplane.  Alt hough there are two controllers shown there is, in this concept, a single set of Shared Memory which is common between both controllers One of the main functions of the active controller is to build and maintain a directory of memory sector-to-physical address translation tables.  Having the table stored in Shared Memory assures timely restart of the recorder function should it become necessary to activate and swap to the alternate controller Interfaces  The Data Recorder interfa ces with the Command Data Handling \(CDH\ubsystem via the standard SpaceWire interface 8 Utilizing conservative design techniques, a sustained Write speed of at least 200 Mbps into memory is guaranteed.   The recorder is capable of supporting simultaneous Writing and Reading of data subject to usual certain timing restrictions imposed by the memory devices themselves Standard 28 Volt bus power is applied to the SSR which features two power convert er units for redundancy Redundancy & Fault Tolerance The execution of good systems engineering practice is recommended and will, most likely result in a physical  enlargement of the SSR in one dimension.  This may consist of addition of spare memory to each memory slice, or the addition of one or more spare memory slices to the entire design With respect to Fault Tolerance, aside from the use of redundant interfaces and contro llers, described above, the HC-SSR is designed such that individual blocks of words as determined by EDAC boundaries can be tagged as Do Not Use.  An example of an EDAC word with embedded control bits is included as Figure 21  Figure 21 - EDAC Word Bit-Level Assignments File System The HC-SSR contains built in File Management system supervised by Interface/Controlle r ASICs.  File storage is compatible with the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP thereby reducing the need for processing and packetizing data externally   8 ESA Standard ECSS-E-50-12A 96 bits 26 -->||<-- 6 EDAC Ctl/Hdr/ID Data 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


