2014 47th Hawaii International Conference on System Science HICSS 2014 Table of Contents Preface li Forty Seven Years of HICSS—A Brief History of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences lii Proceedings Overview lxxvi Conference Administration lxxviii HICSS-47 Tracks and Minitracks lxxix Reviewers lxxxvii Collaboration Systems and Technology Track—Co-Chairs: Robert Briggs and Jay Nunamaker Introduction to Collaboration Systems and Technology Track 1 Jay F. Nunamaker and Bob Briggs Advances in Teaching and Learning Technologies—Co-Chairs: David Spencer, Tim Ellis, and Eric Santanen Introduction to Advances in Teaching and Learning Technologies Minitrack 2 David H. Spencer, Eric L. Santanen, and Timothy J. Ellis Acquiring IS Skill through Habitual Use 3 David Eargle, Russ Taylor, Lane Sawyer, and James Gaskin Anchoring for Self-Efficacy and Success 13 Nimer Alrushiedat and Lorne Olfman Attention Guidance in Online Learning Conversations 22 Evren Eryilmaz, Brian Thoms, Justin Mary, Rosemary Kim, and Jakko Van der Pol Crowd-Sourced Peer Feedback \(CPF and Reflections from a Pilot Study 32 Nigel P. Melville Designing a Peer Support System for Computer Programming Courses Using Online Social Networking Software 42 Brian Thoms, Evren Eryilmaz, and Steve Gerbino Effective Teacher Training for Tablet Integration in K-12 Classrooms 52 Pimpaka Prasertsilp and Lorne Olfman Evaluating the Role of Face-to-Face Residencies in Cross-National, Accessible Cyberlearning 62 Jennifer Ellis, Marilyn Arnone, Nanette Levinson, and Derrick L. Cogburn 
v 


Feature-Driven Adoption Patterns of Online Learning Environments—The Instructors Perspective 72 Margit Kastner, Bernd Simon, and Michael Schraml Generation Alpha at the Intersection of Technology, Play and Motivation 82 Holly Tootell, Mark Freeman, and Alison Freeman Hand-Held Mobile Augmented Reality for Collaborative Problem Solving: A Case Study with Sorting 91 Adrian Shatte, Jason Holdsworth, and Ickjai Lee Networks of Change: Learning from Peers about Science Teaching 100 Caroline Haythornthwaite, Wei Gao, and Fouad Abd-El-Khalick Perceptions of Effectiveness of Instructional Uses of Technology in Higher Education in an Era of Web 2.0 110 Vivek Venkatesh, Anne-Marie Croteau, and Jihan Rabah Sign Language Writing Acquisition—Technology for a Writing System 120 Cayley Guimarães, Jeferson F. Guardezi, and Sueli Fernandes Supporting Problem-Solving in Mathematics with a Conversational Agent Capable of Representing Gifted Students’ Knowledge 130 Eliane Vigneron Barreto Aguiar, Liane M. Rockenbach Tarouco, and Eliseo Reategui Communication and Information Systems Technology for Emergency Management—Co-Chairs: Jose J Gonzalez, Murray Turoff, and Akemi Takeoka Chatfield Introduction to Communication and Information Systems Technology for Emergency Management Minitrack 138 Jose J. Gonzalez, Murray Turoff, and Akemi Takeoka Chatfield Implementation Methodology of the Resilience Framework 139 Leire Labaka, Tina Comes, Josune Hernantes, Jose Mari Sarriegi, and Jose J. Gonzalez Increasing Efficiency of Humanitarian Organizations with Volunteer Driven Information Products 149 Kenny Meesters and Bartel Van de Walle Cross-Organizational and Cross-Border IS/IT Collaboration—Co-Chairs: James Pick and Nicholas Romano Introduction to Cross-Organizational and Cross-Border IS/IT Collaboration Minitrack 159 James B. Pick and Nicholas Romano Collaborative Technologies in an Inter-organizational Context: Examining the Role of Perceived Information Security and Trust on Post-adoption 160 Simon T.N. Trang, Thierry J. Ruch, and Lutz M. Kolbe Investigating Information Sharing Behavior in Supply Chains: Evidence from an Embedded Single Case Study 170 Tobias Engel, Andreas Englschalk, Nurettin Güner, Suparna Goswami, and Helmut Krcmar Which Boundary Objects Are Applicable to Service Innovation? A Dynamic Capability Perspective 180 Andrea Malsbender, Ralf Plattfaut, Björn Niehaves, and Jörg Becker 
vi 


Creativity in Teams and Organizations—Co-Chairs: Triparna de Vreede, Roni Reiter-Palmon and Ginamarie Ligon Introduction to Creativity and Innovation in Teams and Organizations Minitrack 190 Triparna de Vreede, Roni Reiter-Palmon, and Ginamarie Ligon Creativity at the Margins: Exploring Social and Technical Marginality in Novel Idea Generation 191 Shannon M. Provost and Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa Developing Entrepreneurial Skills in IT Courses: The Role of Agile Software Development Practices in Producing Successful Student Initiated Products 201 Aaron Read, Douglas C. Derrick, and Gina S. Ligon The Role of Shared Team Passion, Shared Norms of ICT Use, and Expertise on Knowledge Team Creativity 210 Kyung Young Lee, Geneviève Bassellier, and Samer Faraj When Process is Getting in the Way of Creativity and Innovation 221 Sune Dueholm Müller, Frank Ulrich, and Peter Axel Nielsen Decision, Negotiation, Leadership, Social Communities, and Technology—Co-Chairs: Tung Bui and Mel Shakun Introduction to Decision, Negotiation, Leadership, Social Communities, and Technology Minitrack 230 Tung Bui and Melvin F. Shakun Accelerating Combinatorial Clock Auctions Using Bid Ranges 231 Xiaoqiu Qiu and Dirk Neumann Bilateral and Multi-bilateral Agent-Human Negotiations: Two Experiments 241 Rustam Vahidov, Gregory Kersten, and Dmitry Guimon Multi-strategy Selection Model for Automated Negotiation 250 Mukun Cao and Xiaopei Dai Perception Formation in Global Negotiations: The Role of Culture and Sacred Value 260 Zhaleh Semnani-Azad, Alin Coman, Katia Sycara, and Michael Lewis Validation and Analysis of a Distributed, Agent-Based Metaheuristic for Negotiation of Consensus Inspired by Honeybee Nest Site Selection Behavior 269 Alexander S. Mentis and Levent Yilmaz Emerging Issues in Distributed Group Decision Making: Opportunities and Challenges—Co-Chairs: Anil Aggarwal, Doug Vogel, and Yuko Murayama Introduction to the Minitrack on Emerging Issues in Distributed Group Decision Making Opportunities and Challenges 277 Anil Aggarwal, Doug Vogel, and Yuko Murayama Decision Making in Diverse Swift Teams: An Exploratory Study 278 Anil Aggarwal 
vii 


Empirical Investigation of the Cognitive Factors that Influence the Continued Use of Smartphones by College Students Who are Using Smartphones to Participate in the Future Global Distributed Teams 289 Efosa C. Idemudia, Mahesh S. Raisinghani, and Alice Batch Structural Changes Associated with the Temporal Dispersion of Teams: Evidence from Open Source Software Projects 300 Jorge Colazo The Influence of Knowledge Level in Information Security onto the Factors of Anshin for Online Shopping Users 310 Dai Nishioka, Yoshia Saito, and Yuko Murayama Global Virtual Teams—Co-Chairs: Mike Hine, Frederick Zarndt, and Derrick L. Cogburn Introduction to Global Virtual Teams Minitrack 320 Mike Hine, Derrick L. Cogburn, and Frederick Zarndt Global Team Boundary Complexity: A Social Network Perspective 321 J. Alberto Espinosa, Gwanhoo Lee, and William DeLone Handoffs Management in Follow-the-Sun Software Projects: A Case Study 331 Josiane Kroll, Ita Richardson, Jorge L.N. Audy, and Jude Fernandez Identifying Potential Leaders for Virtual Teams 340 Josh Iorio and John Taylor The Influence of Personal Traits on Innovative Processes in Virtual Teams 350 Bettina C. Riedl, Tucker J. Marion, and Arnold Picot Human-Computer Interaction: Informing Design Utilizing Behavioral, Neurophysiological, and Design Science Methods—Co-Chairs: Christoph Schneider, Joe Valacich, and Angelika Dimoka Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction: Informing Design Utilizing Behavioral Neurophysiological, and Design Science Methods Minitrack 360 Christoph Schneider, Joseph S. Valacich, and Angelika Dimoka A Design Science Approach to Collective Intelligence Systems 361 Alexander Kornrumpf and Ulrike Baumöl Can Fixation on Main Images Predict Visual Appeal of Homepages 371 Soussan Djamasbi, Marisa Siegel, and Tom Tullis Dissecting the Process of Knowledge Filtering in Electronic Networks of Practice 376 Kelly J. Fadel, Thomas O. Meservy, and Matthew L. Jensen Management Support Systems on Different Devices—A Business Perspective Accommodating Managers’ Growing Range of Use Situations 386 Jörg H. Mayer, Robert Winter, Daniel Stock, and Nadja Scholl-Steinepreis Re 396 Christian Lambeck, Romy Müller, Corinna Fohrholz, and Christian Leyh The Applicability of Neurally-Controlled Devices in Business: A Student Perspective 406 Adriane B. Randolph 
viii 


Towards Fully Declarative High-Level Interaction Models: An Approach Facilitating Automated GUI Generation 412 Filip Kis, Cristian Bogdan, Hermann Kaindl, and Jürgen Falb Transitions: A Crossmedia Interaction Relevant Aspect 422 João Paulo Delgado Preti, Flavio Miyamaru, and Lucia Vilela Leite Filgueiras When Form and Function Combine: Hedonizing Business Information Systems for Enhanced Ease of Use 432 Adarsh Kumar Kakar You Said What? Assessing the Impact of Collaboration Technologies and Message Characteristics Using Physiological Measures 442 Taylor M. Wells and Alan R. Dennis Processes and Technologies for Small and Large Team Collaboration—Co-Chairs: Gert-Jan de Vreede, Imed Boughzal, and Douglas Derrick Introduction to Processes and Technologies for Small and Large Team Collaboration Minitrack 452 Gert-Jan de Vreede, Imed Boughzala, and Douglas C. Derrick Easy Collaboration Process Support System Design for Student Collaborative Group Work: A Case Study 453 Xusen Cheng, Yuanyuan Li, Jianshan Sun, and Xiaodong Zhu Mining Hidden Profiles in the Collaborative Evaluation of Raw Ideas 463 Graham Horton and Jana Goers Opening the Black Box of Team Processes and Emergent States: A Literature Review and Agenda for Research on Team Facilitation 473 Isabella Seeber, Ronald Maier, and Barbara Weber Towards a Maturity Model for the Assessment of Ideation in Crowdsourcing Projects 483 Imed Boughzala, Triparna de Vreede, Cuong Nguyen, and Gert-Jan de Vreede Social and Psychological Perspectives in Collaboration Research—Co-Chairs: Roni Reiter-Palmon, Gert-Jan de Vreede, and Triparna de Vreede Introduction to Social and Psychological Perspectives in Collaboration Research Minitrack 491 Triparna de Vreede, Gert-Jan de Vreede, and Roni Reiter-Palmon An Empirical Field Study of the Yield Shift Theory of Satisfaction 492 Robert O. Briggs, Bruce A. Reinig, and G.J. de Vreede Task Characteristics, Team Processes and Individual Use of Collaboration Technology: Test of a Cross-Level Mediation Model 500 Likoebe M. Maruping and Massimo Magni The Antecedents of Commitment towards Collaborative Work Practice Outcomes 510 David Kocsis, Abdulrahman Alothaim, Triparna de Vreede, Lotfollah Najjar and Gert-Jan de Vreede The Impact of Posting URLs in Disaster-Related Tweets on Rumor Spreading Behavior 520 Yuko Tanaka, Yasuaki Sakamoto, and Hidehito Honda 
ix 


The Leadership Dimension of Coping with Technostress 530 Christian Fieseler, Stephanie Grubenmann, Miriam Meckel, and Severina Müller You Reap What You Sow? How Knowledge Exchange Effectiveness is Affected by Different Types of Communication in Enterprise Social Media 540 Marten Risius and Roman Beck Social Media and E-Business Transformation—Co-Chairs: Christy Cheung, Matthew K.O. Lee and Christian Wagner Introduction to Social Media and E-Business Transformation Minitrack 550 Christy M.K. Cheung, Matthew K.O. Lee, and Christian Wagner Do I Switch? Understanding Users’ Intention to Switch between Social Network Sites 551 Liu Fei and Xiao Bo Impact of Online Firm Generated Content \(FGC Analysis 561 Ajaya Swain and Qing Cao Leadership 2.0: Engaging and Supporting Leaders in the Transition towards a Networked Organization 574 Alexander Richter and David Wagner Social Media at SocioSystems Inc.: A Socio-technical Systems Analysis of Strategic Action 584 Don Heath, Rahul Singh, and Jai Ganesh The Wisdom of Crowds: Impact of Collective Size and Expertise Transfer on Collective Performance 594 Christian Wagner and Ayoung Suh Understanding Information Adoption in Online Review Communities: The Role of Herd Factors 604 Xiao-Liang Shen, Kem Z.K. Zhang, and Sesia J. Zhao Understanding Members’ Attachment to Social Networking Sites: An Empirical Investigation of Three Theories 614 Eric T.K. Lim, Dianne Cyr, and Chee-Wee Tan Technology-Mediated Collaborations in Healthcare—Co-Chairs: Souren Paul, Arkalgud Ramaprasad and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to Technology-Mediated Collaborations in Healthcare Minitrack 624 Souren Paul, Arkalgud Ramaprasad, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Co-creation of Knowledge in Healthcare: A Study of Social Media Usage 626 Fatou Bagayogo, Liette Lapointe, Jui Ramaprasad, and Isabelle Vedel Communicating Personal Health Information in Virtual Health Communities: A Theoretical Framework 636 Nima Kordzadeh and John Warren Improving Knowledge Provision for Shared Decision Making in Patient-Physician Relationships—A Multiagent Organizational Approach 646 Tobias Widmer, Marc Premm, Manfred Criegee-Rieck, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe 
x 


Meaningful Use of Electronic Health Records for Physician Collaboration: A Patient Centered Health Care Perspective 656 Cherie Bakker Noteboom, Sergey P. Motorny, Sajda Qureshi, and Surendra Sarnikar Working and Gaming in 3D Virtual Environments—Co-Chairs: Gert-Jan de Vreede, Moez Limayem and Imed Boughzala Introduction to Working and Gaming in 3D Virtual Environments Minitrack 667 Gert-Jan de Vreede, Imed Boughzala, and Moez Limayem Explaining the Development of the Excessive Use of Massively Multiplayer Online Games: A Positive-Negative Reinforcement Perspective 668 Zach W.Y. Lee, Christy M.K. Cheung, and Tommy K.H. Chan Repositories of Community Memory as Visualized Activities in 3D Virtual Worlds 678 Mikhail Fominykh, Ekaterina Prasolova-Førland, Leif M. Hokstad, and Mikhail Morozov You: What Generation Y Thinks about Corporate Social Networking Applications 688 Imed Boughzala Decision Analytics, Mobile Services, and Service Science Track—Co-Chairs: Christer Carlsson and Haluk Demirkan Introduction to Decision Analytics, Mobile Services, and Service Science Track \(DA/MS/SS 697 Christer Carlsson and Haluk Demirkan Analytics and Design-Led Innovations and Management—Chair: Haluk Demirkan Introduction to Analytics and Design-Led Innovations and Management Minitrack 698 Haluk Demirkan A Pricing Model for Cloud Computing Service 699 Tayfun Keskin and Nazim Taskin Internet Interconnection Techno-economics: A Proposal for Assured Quality Services and Business Models 708 Antonio Ghezzi, Manos Dramitinos, Eleni Agiatzidou, Finn Tore Johanses, Håkon Løsethagen Andrea Rangone, and Raffaello Balocco Representing Service Business Models with the Service Business Model Canvas—The Case of a Mobile Payment Service in the Retail Industry 718 Andreas Zolnowski, Christian Weiß, and Tilo Böhmann Big Data: Challenges, Opportunities, and Realities—Co-Chairs: Steve Kaisler, Frank Armour, and Albert Espinosa Introduction to Big Data: Challenges, Opportunities, and Realities Minitrack 728 Stephen Kaisler, Frank Armour, and J. Albert Espinosa Advanced Analytics—Issues and Challenges in a Global Environment 729 Stephen H. Kaisler, J. Albert Espinosa, Frank Armour, and William H. Money Industrial Open Data: Case Studies of Early Open Data Entrepreneurs 739 Juho Lindman, Tomi Kinnari, and Matti Rossi 
xi 


Opportunities for Business Intelligence and Big Data Analytics in Evidence Based Medicine 749 Omar El-Gayar and Prem Timsina Towards Model-Driven Engineering for Big Data Analytics—An Exploratory Analysis of Domain-Specific Languages for Machine Learning 758 Dominic Breuker Data, Text, and Web Mining for Managerial Decision Support—Co-Chairs: Dursun Delen and Asil Oztekin Introduction to Data, Text, and Web Mining for Managerial Decision Support Minitrack 768 Dursun Delen and Asil Oztekin An Ontology-Based Information Extraction \(OBIE Offering \(IPO 769 Jie Tao, Amit V. Deokar, and Omar F. El-Gayar Analyzing the Predictability of Exchange Traded Funds Characteristics in the Mutual Fund Market on the Flow of Shares Using a Data Mining Approach 779 Asil Oztekin, Kyle Best, and Dursun Delen Data Mining to Improve Safety of Blood Donation Process 789 Madhav Erraguntla, Peter Tomasulo, Kevin Land, Hany Kamel, Marjorie Bravo Barbee Whitaker, Richard Mayer, and Sarita Khaire Star Ratings versus Sentiment Analysis—A Comparison of Explicit and Implicit Measures of Opinions 796 Parisa Lak and Ozgur Turetken Trading on Twitter: The Financial Information Content of Emotion in Social Media 806 Hongkee Sul, Alan R. Dennis, and Lingyao \(Ivy Decision Making in Production Processes—Co-Chairs: Norbert Gronau and Helen Zong Introduction to Decision Making in Production Processes Minitrack 816 Norbert Gronau and Helen Zong A Web-Based Smart Inference System to Support Automated Generation of LCA Simulation Models 817 Sarfraz Ul Haque Minhas and Ulrich Berger An Evolutionary Approach on Multi-objective Scheduling for Evolving Manufacturing Systems 826 Benjamin Klöpper, Jan-Patrick Pater, and Wilhelm Dangelmaier Decision-Making Process in Manufacturing Technology Planning for Small Scale Productions 836 Fritz Klocke, Kristian Arntz, and Dominik Heeschen Decision Support for Sustainability—Co-Chairs: Omar El-Gayar, PingSun Leung, and Arno Scharl Introduction to Decision Support for Sustainability Minitrack 846 Omar El-Gayar, Pingsun Leung, and Arno Scharl A Model and Simulation Framework for Exploring Potential Impacts of Land Use Policies: The Brazilian Cerrado Case 847 Carolina G. Abreu, Cassio G.C. Coelho, Célia G. Ralha, and Bruno Macchiavello 
xii 


Early Assessment of an Approach to Determining the Predictive Coverage of Case-Based Reasoning with Adaptation through CARMA 857 John D. Hastings, Alexandre V. Latchininsky, Tyler J. Adelung, and Scott P. Schell Offshore Wind Energy in Emerging Countries: A Decision Support System for the Assessment of Projects 865 André Koukal and Michael H. Breitner Product Carbon Footprint and Life Cycle Assessment of ICT—Literature Review and State of the Art 875 Daniel Grimm, Daniel Weiss, Koray Erek, and Ruediger Zarnekow Towards Green Business Process Management: Concept and Implementation of an Artifact to Reduce the Energy Consumption of Business Processes 885 Markus Reiter, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Towards Proactive and Flexible Agent-Based Generation of Policy Packages for Active Transportation 895 Araz Taeihagh and René Bañares-Alcántara Information Filtering and Retrieval: Soft Computing-Based Approaches—Co-Chairs: Gabriella Pasi and Witold Pedrycz Introduction to Information Filtering and Retrieval: Soft Computing-Based Approaches Minitrack 905 Gabriella Pasi and Witold Pedrycz A Combined Method for Mitigating Sparsity Problem in Tag Recommendation 906 Endang Djuana, Yue Xu, Yuefeng Li, and Audun Jøsang Investigating Features in Support of Web Tools for Information Gathering 916 Anwar Alhenshiri, Carolyn Watters, Michael Shepherd, and Jack Duffy Modeling Technology Assessment via Knowledge Maps 924 Elan Sasson, Gilad Ravid, and Nava Pliskin Soft Retrieval and Uncertain Databases 934 Ronald R. Yager and Rachel L. Yager Innovation, Design, and Development of ICT-Enabled Services—Co-Chairs: Tuure Tuunanen, Tilo Böhmann, and David Tilson Introduction to Innovation, Design, and Development of ICT-Enabled Services Minitrack 944 Tilo Böhmann, David Tilson, and Tuure Tuunanen Context-Based Energy Saving Strategies for Continuous Determination of Position on iOS Devices 945 Wolfgang Narzt Domain Specific Case Tool for ICT-Enabled Service Design 955 Tuure Tuunane and Michael Przybilski Towards a Better Understanding of the Dynamics of Platform as a Service Business Models 965 Andrea Giessmann, Philipp Kyas, Pasi Tyrväinen, and Katarina Stanoevska 
xiii 


Value Creation and Evolution of a Value Network: A Longitudinal Case Study on a Platform-as-a-Service Provider 975 Arto Ojala and Nina Helander Intelligent Decision Support for Logistics and Supply Chain Management—Co-Chairs: Hans-Jurgen Sebastian and Stefan Voss Introduction to Intelligent Decision Support for Logistics and Supply Chain Management Minitrack 985 Hans-Jürgen Sebastian and Stefan Vo Decision Support for Capacitated Arc Routing for Providing Municipal Waste and Recycling Services 986 Aman Preet Singh, Guenther Ruhe, Seyed Abbas Hosseini Amereei, and Scott Banack Dynamic Hub Location Problems with Single Allocation and Multiple Capacity Levels 994 Astrid M.C. Hörhammer Intelligent Decision Support for Aircraft Logistics at Commercial Airports 1004 L. Douglas Smith Mobile Value Services—Co-Chairs: Harry Bouwman and Pirkko Walden Introduction to Mobile Value Services Minitrack 1014 Harry Bouwman and Pirkko Walden A Context-Sensitive Tool to Support Mobile Technology Acceptance Research 1015 Elisabeth Pergler, Richard Hable, Ernesto Rico-Schmidt, Christian Kittl, and Rainer Schamberger An Exploratory Smartphone Measurement: Perception vs. Actual Use 1023 Shahrokh Nikou An Exploratory Study of the Motives Engaged in the Dissemination of Social Word-of-Mouth via Mobile Device 1033 Pin Luarn, Yu-Ping Chiu, and Jen-Chieh Yang An Institutional Perspective of Mobile Payment Adoption: The Case of Japan 1043 Remy Magnier-Watanabe MOSDEN: An Internet of Things Middleware for Resource Constrained Mobile Devices 1053 Charith Perera, Prem Prakash Jayaraman, Arkady Zaslavsky, Peter Christen and Dimitrios Georgakopoulos Privacy as a Tradeoff: Introducing the Notion of Privacy Calculus for Context-Aware Mobile Applications 1063 Zhan Liu, Jialu Shan, Riccardo Bonazzi, and Yves Pigneur The Relationship between Open Innovation and Strategy: Data-Driven Analysis of the Mobile Value Services Industry 1073 Antonio Ghezzi, Raffaello Balocco, and Andrea Rangone 
xiv 


Multi-criteria Decision Support—Co-Chairs: H. Roland Weistroffer and Jyrki Wallenius Introduction to Multi-criteria Decision Support Minitrack 1083 H. Roland Weistroffer and Jyrki Wallenius A Multiple Criteria Decision Analysis \(MCDA 1084 Yan Li and Manoj A. Thomas Customer Order-Driven BOCR-Based Supplier Selection 1095 Chang Joo Yun, Chung-Hsing Yeh, and Susan Bedingfield Dissemination and Impact of Multi-criteria Decision Support Methods for IT Project Evaluation 1103 E.W.N. Bernroider, Nikolaus Obwegeser, and Volker Stix GCAR: A Group Composite Alternatives Recommender Based on Multi-criteria Optimization and Voting 1113 Hanan Mengash and Alexander Brodsky Market Potential Analysis and Branch Network Planning: Application in a German Retail Bank 1122 Stephan Schneider, Florian Seifert, and Ali Sunyaev Supplier Selection by Multi-attribute Combinatorial Bidding 1132 Joice Cavalheiro Ribeiro Giacon, Hugo T. Yoshida Yoshizaki, and Gilberto Montibeller Network DSS: Decision Support in Mobile Social and Sensor Networks—Co-Chairs: Alex Bordetsky, Dan Dolk, and Stefan Pickl Introduction to Network DSS: Decision Support in the Collaborative Environment of Mobile Social and Sensor Networks Minitrack 1142 Alex Bordetsky, Dan Dolk, and Stefan Pickl Employing Smartphones as a Low-Cost Multi Sensor Platform in a Field Operational Test with Electric Vehicles 1143 Matthias Pfriem and Frank Gauterin Slime Mold Inspired Evolving Networks under Uncertainty \(SLIMO 1153 Erik Kropat and Silja Meyer-Nieberg Tracking Targets under Uncertainty: Natural Computing Approaches 1162 Silja Meyer-Nieberg and Erik Kropat New Economic Models of the Digital Economy—Co-Chairs: Roger Maull and Cathy Mulligan Introduction to New Economic Models of the Digital Economy Minitrack 1172 Roger Maull and C.E.A. Mulligan Investigating Location-Based Services from a Business Model Perspective 1173 Stephanie Ryschka, Josefine Tonn, Kyung-Hun Ha, and Markus Bick Modularity and Network Integration: Emergent Business Models in Banking 1183 J.M. Liebenau, S.M. Elaluf-Calderwood, and C.M. Bonina The Impact of Datafication on Service Systems 1193 Roger Maull, Phil Godsiff, and C.E.A. Mulligan 
xv 


When Common Knowledge Becomes Common Doubt—Modeling IT-Induced Ambiguities about the Strategic Situation as Reasons for Flash Crashes 1202 Tobias Brandt and Dirk Neumann Service Analytics—Co-Chairs: Hansjörg Fromm and Thomas Setzer Introduction to Service Analytics Minitrack 1212 Hansjörg Fromm and Thomas Setzer Cultural Differences in Playing Repeated Ultimatum Game Online with Virtual Humans 1213 Elnaz Nouri and David Traaum On the Robustness of ARIMA-Based Benchmarks for Corporate Financial Planning Quality 1221 Jochen Martin and Thomas Setzer User Heterogeneity in Trading Systems: Assessing Trader’s Market Predisposition via Personality Questionnaires 1230 Tobias T. Kranz, Florian Teschner, and Christof Weinhardt Service Science, Management, and Engineering \(SSME Shaw Introduction to Service Science, Management, and Engineering \(SSME 1240 Fu-Ren Lin, Paul P. Maglio, and Michael J. Shaw A Situated and Embodied Approach to Service Design 1241 Anshuman Saxena and Alain Wegmann Challenges for Cloud-Based Simulation Games 1251 Bastian Kurbjuhn, Frederik Kramer, and Klaus Turowski Measuring Service Productivity: The Case of a German Mobile Service Provider 1258 Hans Peter Rauer Outsourcing of Disaggregated Services in Cloud-Based Enterprise Information Systems 1268 Aleksandre Asatiani, Uday Apte, Esko Penttinen, Mikko Rönkkö, and Timo Saarinen Reconciling Resource Integration and Value Propositions—The Dynamics of Value Co-creation 1278 Jaakko Siltaloppi and Stephen L. Vargo Service Identification—An Explorative Evaluation of Recent Methods 1285 Frederik Kramer, Carsten Görling, and Stefan Wind Service Value Network Formation for Organic Agricultural Produce: An Actor Network Theory Perspective 1296 Fu-Ren Lin and Szu-Yun Wang The Service Recovery Paradox in a Call-Center Context: Compensation and Timeliness in Recovering Mobile Customers 1306 Raquel Reis Soares, João F. Proença, and P.K. Kannan Optimal Recommendation and Long-Tail Provision Strategies for Content Monetization 1316 Ting-Kai Hwang and Yung-Ming Li Towards a “BI Value Coin”: Applying Service Research to Address Business Intelligence Challenges 1324 Pamela R. Clavier, Hugo H. Lotriet, and Johan J. van Loggerenberg 
xvi 


Soft Computing and Intelligent Data Analysis—Chair: Rudolf Kruse Introduction to the Soft Computing and Intelligent Data Analysis Minitrack 1334 Rudolf Kruse A Neural Network-Based Ensemble Prediction Using PMRS and ECM 1335 Dongkuan Xu, Yi Zhang, Cheng Cheng, Wei Xu, and Likuan Zhang Identification of Linear Switching System with Unknown Dimensions 1344 Amir H. Shirdel, Kaj-Mikael Björk, and Hannu T. Toivonen Visualization and Analytics for Decision Support, Operational Management, and Scientific Discovery—Co-Chairs: David S. Ebert, Thomas Ertl, and Kelly Gaither Introduction to Visualization and Analytics for Decision Support, Operational Management and Scientific Discovery Minitrack 1353 David S. Ebert, Thomas Ertl, and Kelly Gaither Retaining Interactivity in a Visual Analytics System for Massive Public Transportation Data Sets 1354 Michael Wörner and Thomas Ertl Studying Animation for Real-Time Visual Analytics: A Design Study of Social Media Analytics in Emergency Management 1364 Nadya A. Calderon, Richard Arias-Hernandez, and Brian Fisher Towards a Visual Analytics Framework for Handling Complex Business Processes 1374 William Ribarsky, Derek Xiaoyu Wang, Wenwen Dou, and William J. Tolone Digital and Social Media Track—Co-Chairs: Kevin Crowston and Karine Nahon Introduction to Digital and Social Media Track 1384 Kevin Crowston and Karine Nahon Crowdsourcing Content Production and Online Knowledge Repositories—Co-Chairs: Pnina Fichman Noriko Hara, and Howard Rosenbaum Introduction to Crowdsourcing Content Production and Online Knowledge Repositories Minitrack 1385 Pnina Fichman, Noriko Hara, and Howard Rosenbaum Questioning the Question—Addressing the Answerability of Questions in Community Question-Answering 1386 Chirag Shah, Vanessa Kitzie, and Erik Choi Value-Adding Intermediaries in Software Crowdsourcing 1396 Hamed Tajedin and Dorti Nevo User Involvement in Self-Governing Content in Professional Online Communities 1406 Tingting Zhang, William Y.C. Wang, and Angsana A. Techatassanasoontorn 
xvii 


Data Analytics and Data Mining for Social Media—Co-Chairs: David Yates, Jennifer Xu, and Dominique Haughton Introduction to Data Analytics and Data Mining for Social Media Minitrack 1414 Dominique M. Haughton, Jennifer J. Xu, and David J. Yates A Framework for Recommender Systems in Online Social Network Recruiting: An Interdisciplinary Call to Arms 1415 Ricardo Buettner A Bit of Code”: How the Stack Overflow Community Creates Quality Postings 1425 Megan Squire and Christian Funkhouser Cues to Deception in Social Media Communications 1435 Erica J. Briscoe, D. Scott Appling, and Heather Hayes Effect of Social Networks on Online Reviews 1444 Parastoo Samiei and Arvind K. Tripathi Mining Frequent Trajectory Patterns and Regions-of-Interest from Flickr Photos 1454 Guochen Cai, Chihiro Hio, Luke Bermingham, Kyungmi Lee, and Ickjai Lee Using Large Scale Aggregated Knowledge for Social Media Location Discovery 1464 Dennis Thom, Harald Bosch, Robert Krueger, and Thomas Ertl Visual Network Analysis of Twitter Data for Co-organizing Conferences: Case CMAD 2013 1474 Jari Jussila, Jukka Huhtamäki, Kaisa Henttonen, Hannu Kärkkäinen, and Kaisa Still Materiality of Information, Documents, and Work—Co-Chairs: Carsten Østerlund, David Ribes and Daniela K. Rosner Introduction to Materiality of Information, Documents, and Work Minitrack 1484 Carsten Østerlund, David Ribes, and Daniela K. Rosner Business Processes as Sociomaterial Networks: Exploring the Multiple Dimensions of Flexibility in Process Modeling 1485 Joao Porto de Albuquerque and Marcel Christ Institutional Ethnography \(IE 1495 Marie L. Campbell Material Engagements: Putting Plans and Things Together in Collaborative Ocean Science 1505 Stephanie B. Steinhardt and Steven J. Jackson Seeing with Paper: Government Documents and Material Participation 1515 Megan Finn, Janaki Srinivasan, and Rajesh Veeraraghavan Technology-Related Interruptions and Paper-Based Documents in Back-Office Knowledge Work 1525 Sari Yli-Kauhaluoma and Mika Pantzar The Materiality of Contract in Relation to ICT: Lessons from a Biography of Contract Management Software 1535 Carolyn Paris 
xviii 


Network Analysis of Social and Digital Media—Co-Chairs: George A. Barnett and Devan Rosen Introduction to Network Analysis of Social and Digital Media Minitrack 1545 Davan Rosen and George A. Barnett Characterizing Communication Networks Associated with Political Hashtags 1546 Misa Maruyama, Daniel D. Suthers, and Scott P. Robertson Detection of Domestic Human Trafficking Indicators and Movement Trends Using Content Available on Open Internet Sources 1556 Michelle Ibanez and Daniel D. Suthers I’m Not Just Wasting Time Online! Test of Situational Awareness: An Exploratory Study 1566 Rebecca L. Badawy, Michael A. Stefanone, and Robyn L. Brouer Impact Factor 2.0: Applying Social Network Analysis to Scientific Impact Assessment 1576 Christian Pieter Hoffmann, Christoph Lutz, and Miriam Meckel Search in Social Networks: Designing Models and Algorithms That Maximize Human Influence 1586 Ericsson Santana Marin and Cedric Luiz de Carvalho Twitter Connections among Local Health Departments as Potential Pathways for Dissemination 1596 Jenine K. Harris, Ross C. Brownson, Ryan A. Bell, Ryan C. Maier, Elisia Cohen, and Nancy Mueller Social Media and Learning—Co-Chairs: Maarten de Laat, Caroline Haythornthwaite, Shane Dawson and Dan Suthers Introduction to Social Media and Learning Minitrack 1606 Maarten De Laat, Caroline Haythornthwaite, Shane Dawson, and Dan Suthers Badges of Friendship: Social Influence and Badge Acquisition on Stack Overflow 1607 Alexander Halavais, K. Hazel Kwon, Shannon Havener, and Jason Striker Collaborative Learning in Facebook: Adverse Effects of Individual Preparation 1616 Raluca Judele, Dimitra Tsovaltzi, Thomas Puhl, and Armin Weinberger Hei Mookie! Where Do I Start? The Role of Artifacts in an Unmanned MOOC 1625 Marisa Ponti Novice Programmers Talking about Projects: What Automated Text Analysis Reveals about Online Scratch Users’ Comments 1635 Nicole Forsgren Velasquez, Deborah A. Fields, David Olsen, Taylor Martin, Mark C. Shepherd Anna Strommer, and Yasmin B. Kafai Social Network Enhancement for Non-formal Learning 1645 Christopher Whitty and Rachid Anane 
xix 


Social Media and the Workplace: Job and Work Design Issues in a Social Enterprise—Co-Chairs: Xuefei Nancy Introduction to Social Media and Workplace: Job and Work Design Issues in a Social Enterprise Minitrack 1655 Xuefei \(Nancy Learning by Blogging: Understanding Salespeople’s Learning Experiences on Social Media 1656 Minna Rollins, Jack Wei, and David Nickell Re-tweeting and the Theory of Middle-Status Conformity in the Post-adoption Use of Twitter 1666 Tom Mattson and Sal Aurigemma Unfriending on Facebook: Context Collapse and Unfriending Behaviors 1676 Christopher Sibona Social Networking and Communities—Co-Chairs: Caroline Haythornthwaite, Karine Nahon, and Anatoliy Gruzd Introduction to Social Networking and Communities Minitrack 1686 Caroline Haythornthwaite, Karine Nahon, and Anatoliy Gruzd Cheating, Social Network Games and the Role of Platforms 1687 Mia Consalvo and Irene Serrano Vazquez Collaboration via Cooperation and Competition: Small Community Clustering in an MMO 1695 Nathaniel D. Poor Facebook Fallout: The Emotional Response to Being Unfriended on Facebook 1705 Christopher Sibona Government and Social Media: A Case Study of 31 Informational World Cities 1715 Agnes Mainka, Sarah Hartmann, Wolgang G. Stock, and Isabella Peters Investigating Effects of Monetary Reward on Information Disclosure by Online Social Networks Users 1725 Joshana Shibchurn and Xiang Bin Yan Is Web 2.0 Culture-Free or Culture-Bound? Differences between  American and Korean Blogs 1735 Haiyan Jia, S. Shyam Sundar, Ji Young Lee, and Seoyeon Lee Link Sharing on Twitter during Popular Events: Implications for Social Navigation on Websites 1745 Naureen Nizam, Carolyn Watters, and Anatoliy Gruzd Social Media Gerontology: Understanding Social Media Usage among a Unique and Expanding Community of Users 1755 Clayton Hutto and Caroline Bell The Effect of Community Type on Knowledge Sharing Incentives in Online Communities: A Meta-analysis 1765 Mohamed Abouzahra and Joseph Tan The Impact of Perceived Privacy Breach on Sustainability of Social Networking Sites 1774 Stanislav Mamonov and Marios Koufaris 
xx 


The Role of Marketer- and User-Generated Content in Sustaining the Growth of a Social Media Brand Community 1785 Yi Ding, Chee Wei Phang, Xianghua Lu, Chuan-Hoo Tan, and Juliana Sutanto Understanding Social Commerce Intention: A Relational View 1793 Jun Chen, Xiao-Liang Shen, and Zhen-Jiao Chen Text Analytics—Co-Chairs: Carolyn Watters and Evangelos Milios Introduction to Text Analytics Minitrack 1803 Evangelos Milios and Carolyn Watters Automating Discovery of Dominance in Synchronous Computer-Mediated Communication 1804 Jim Samuel, Richard Holowczak, Raquel Benbunan-Fich, and Ilan Levine Large-Scale Web Page Classification 1813 Sathi T. Marath, Michael Shepherd, Evangelos Milios, and Jack Duffy Mapping the Territories of Privacy: Textual Analysis of Privacy Frames in American Mainstream News 1823 Federica Fornaciari Word Cloud Explorer: Text Analytics Based on Word Clouds 1833 Florian Heimerl, Steffen Lohmann, Simon Lange, and Thomas Ertl The Humanized Web: Networks, Crowds, and Their Output—Co-Chairs: Jeffrey Nickerson, Donald Steiny and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Introduction to The Humanized Web: Networks, Crowds, and Their Output Minitrack 1843 Jeffrey V. Nickerson, Don Steiny, and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Examining the Role of “Place” in Twitter Networks through the Lens of Contentious Politics 1844 Jeff J. Hemsley and Josef Eckert The Influence of Negative Emotions in an Online Brand Community on Customer Innovation Activities 1854 Hanjun Lee, Suyeon Jeong, and Yongmoo Suh The Value of a Recommendation: The Role of Social Ties in Social Recommender Systems 1864 Oliver Oechslein and Thomas Hess User-Rank: Generic Query Optimization for Participatory Social Applications 1874 Danny Hughes, Caren Crowley, Wilfried Daniels, Rafael Bachiller, and Wouter Joosen Who Wants to “Share Weather”? The Impacts of Off-Line Interactions on Online Behavior 1884 Katarina Elevant E-Government Track—Chair: Hans \(Jochen Introduction to the Electronic Government Track 1894 Hans Jochen Scholl 
xxi 


Emerging Topics—Co-Chairs: Theresa Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba Introduction to Emerging Topics Minitrack 1895 Theresa A. Pardo, Tino Schuppan, and Samuel Fosso Wamba A Framework for Benchmarking Open Government Data Efforts 1896 Djoko Sigit Sayogo, Theresa A. Pardo, and Meghan Cook Finding Needle in the Case-Stack: Effective Remote Monitoring of Courts 1906 Amn Rahman, Hassan Nawaz, Omer Naeem, Fareed Zaffar, Farooq Naseer, and Adeel Zaffar The Orientation-Maturity Framework for Understanding the E-Government Key Issues in China 1916 Zhang Nan, Yin Cong, Meng Qinguo, and Guo Xunhua E-Government Education—Co-Chairs: Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies Introduction to E-Government Education Minitrack 1926 Elsa Estevez, Wojciech Cellary, and Jim Davies E-Government at Work Level: Skilling or De-skilling 1927 Tino Schuppan The Project TEDS@wildau: TEDS Framework Integration into the Moodle Platform for User-Specific Quality Assurance of Learning Scenarios 1935 Margit Scholl, Peter Ehrlich, Andreas Wiesner-Steiner, and Denis Edich ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster, and Catastrophe Management—Co-Chairs: Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Introduction to ICT-Enabled Crisis, Disaster and Catastrophe Management Minitrack 1946 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Jose J. Gonzalez, and Tina Comes Sandy Tweets: Citizens’ Co-Production of Time-Critical Information during an Unfolding Catastrophe 1947 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield, Hans Jochen Scholl, and Uuf Brajawidagda Feelings and Perspective Matter: Sharing of Crisis Information in Social Media 1958 Rongjuan Chen and Yasuaki Sakamoto Social Media and Emergency Management: Exploring State and Local Tweets 1968 Lemuria Carter, Jason Bennett Thatcher, and Ryan Wright Table-Top Exercises for Emergency Management: Tame Solutions for Wicked Problems 1978 Svante Edzén Infrastructure Security—Co-Chairs: Wm. Arthur Conklin, Ray Vaughn, and Gregory White Introduction to Infrastructure Security Minitrack 1986 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Gregory B. White, and Rayford B. Vaughn Jr Designing a Formal Model Facilitating Collaborative Information Sharing for Community Cyber Security 1987 Wanying Zhao and Gregory White Municipal E-Government Security: Insights from a Study of Orange County, California 1997 Timothy J. Perez 
xxii 


Re-engineering Cybersecurity Education in the US: An Analysis of the Critical Factors 2006 Wm. Arthur Conklin, Raymond E. Cline, and Tiffany Roosa Security Analysis of Selected AMI Failure Scenarios Using Agent Based Game Theoretic Simulation 2015 Robert K. Abercrombie, Bob G. Schlicher, and Frederick T. Sheldon Unintentional Insider Threat: Contributing Factors, Observables, and Mitigation Strategies 2025 Frank L. Greitzer, Jeremy Strozer, Sholom Cohen, John Bergey, Jennifer Cowley Andrew Moore, and David Mundie Open and Participatory Government—Co-Chairs: Scott Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitch Cochran Introduction to Open and Participatory Government Minitrack 2035 Scott P. Robertson, John C. Bertot, and Mitchell Cochran A Proposed Standard Procedure to Define Minimum Scanning Attribute Levels for Hard Copy Documents 2036 Mitchell Cochran Active Citizen E-Participation in Local Governance: Do Individual Social Capital and E-Participation Management Matter 2044 Jooho Lee and Soonhee Kim Participatory Budgeting: A Framework to Analyze the Value-Add of Citizen Participation 2054 Catherine G. Mkude, Cristina Pérez-Espés, and Maria A. Wimmer Public Participation GIS: The Case of Redistricting 2063 Micah Altman and Michael P. McDonald The Challenges of Challenge.Gov: Adopting Private Sector Business Innovations in the Federal Government 2073 Ines Mergel, Stuart I. Bretschneider, Claudia Louis, and Jason Smith The Impact of the Transparency Policy on University Students’ Trust and Intention of Continued Use 2083 Ramón Rufín Moreno and Cayetano Medina Molina Open Data and Cloud Services—Co-Chairs: Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Introduction to Open Data and Cloud Services Minitrack 2093 Marijn Janssen, Yannis Charalabidis, and Helmut Krcmar Applying Design Patterns in URI Strategies—Naming in Linked Geospatial Data Infrastructure 2094 Sonya Abbas and Adegboyega Ojo Dynamic Capabilities for Information Sharing: XBRL Enabling Business-to-Government Information Exchange 2104 Marijn Janssen and Yao-Hua Tan Evaluating Second Generation Open Government Data Infrastructures Using Value Models 2114 Yannis Charalabidis, Euripides Loukis, and Charalampos Alexopoulos From the Ground to the Cloud—A Structured Literature Analysis of the Cloud Service Landscape around the Public and Private Sector 2127 Steffi Haag, Andreas Eckhardt, and Julia Krönung 
xxiii 


Having the Mind in the Cloud: Organizational Mindfulness and the Successful Use of Desktop as a Service 2137 Sabine Dernbecher Policies and Governance for the Network Society—Co-Chairs: Peter Parycek, Antonio Cordella, and Frank Bannister Introduction to Policies and Governance for the Network Society Minitrack 2147 Peter Parycek, Frank Bannister, and Antonio Cordella Legitimate E-Government—Public E-Services as a Facilitator of Political Legitimacy 2148 Elin Wihlborg The Public Procurement of IS—A Process View 2158 Carl Erik Moe and Mike Newman The Role of ICTs in Adaptive and Persistent Authoritarianism: A Study of China at the Administrative Division Level 2168 Qinfeng Zhu and Marko M. Skoric Services and Information—Co-Chairs: L. Christian Schaupp, Lemuria Carter, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazan Introduction to Services and Information Minitrack 2178 Lemuria Carter, Ludwig C. Schaupp, and Rodrigo Sandoval Almazán E-Government Web Portal Adoption: A Service Level and Service Quality Perspective 2179 Xiao Jiang and Shaobo Ji Explanation of Public Private Partnership \(PPP Perspective 2189 Ramesh Narasimhan and Madhuchhanda Das Aundhe Motivations, Deployment, and Assessment of Taiwan’s E-Invoicing System: An Overview 2200 Yuh-Jzer Joung, Yen-Chung Tseng, Shih-Chao Cha, Nai-Wei Lo, Gary Chung, and Chun-Kun Liu The Role of Familiarity or Experience in Generating Trust and in Its Impact on Continued Use 2210 Cayetano Medina Molina and Ramón Rufín Moreno Social Media and Social Networking and Government—Co-Chairs: Suha AlAwadhi, Jay Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Introduction to Social Media and Social Networking and Government Minitrack 2220 Suha Alawadhi, Jay P. Kesan, and Marko M. Skoric Application of Web 2.0 Technologies in E-Government: A United Kingdom Case Study 2221 Uthayasankar Sivarajah, Zahir Irani, and Stephen Jones Crowdsourcing Hazardous Weather Reports from Citizens via Twittersphere under the Short Warning Lead Times of EF5 Intensity Tornado Conditions 2231 Akemi Takeoka Chatfield and Uuf Brajawidagda My Name Is Khan: The Use of Twitter in the Campaign for 2013 Pakistan General Election 2242 Saifuddin Ahmed and Marko M. Skoric 
xxiv 


Transformational Government—Co-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, César Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad Røberg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems Track—Co-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and Policy—Chair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Göran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologies’ State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catalão, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Göran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources—Chair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fernández Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark O’Malley Monitoring, Control, and Protection—Chair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. Domínguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan “Mani” Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient Networks—Chair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation Tool—C GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare Track—Co-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics—Co-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cláudia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and Applications—Co-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health Informatics—Co-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, Jørgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, José A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fernández, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge Planning—Experiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara Eriksén Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and Analysis—Co-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare—Co-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physicians’ Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn O’Mara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy Paré, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klöcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments—Co-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Sönke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim O’Donoghue, Noel O’Kelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Köhler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patients’ Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, Tülay Özata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare—Co-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy Track—Co-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience—Co-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?—A Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumers’ Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alahäivälä, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Keränen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic Marketing—Co-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and Chasing—The Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individuals’ Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Aren’t the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research—Co-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employees’ Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jörg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten Öksüz, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital Economy—Co-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on Purpose—Factors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open Communities—Co-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire It’s Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel André Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society—Co-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltrán Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltrán An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual Use—Empirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rönkkö, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems Track—Co-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs—Co-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing System—A Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimarães, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems—Co-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo Käköl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo Käköl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research—Co-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and Security—Co-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero Päivärinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge Economics—Co-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange—Co-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individuals’ Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management—Co-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth Rodríguez, Jessica Díaz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Pérez, and Agustín Yagüe Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements—Co-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology Track—Chair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information Systems—Co-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo Käköl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmström, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropy’s Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data—Co-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo Bühnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges—Co-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Köppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre Métrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process Management—A Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Krüp, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jörn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerström, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process Intelligence—Co-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus Nüttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation—Co-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria Åkesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications Industry—An Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and Josée St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nöhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bjørn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce—Co-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 René Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developers’ Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionals’ Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers—Co-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements Uncertainty—A Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society—Co-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic Commerce—Evidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response—Co-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design—Co-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrödl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for Development—Co-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, François Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project Management—Co-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS Outsourcing—A Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its Mechanisms—Chair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. Maçada, and João Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology—Co-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the “Future School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems—Co-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria Åkesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network Organizations—A Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS Research—Co-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS Research—A Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology—Co-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT Outsourcing—A Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and Frédéric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality Management—An Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology Track—Co-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products—Chair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, Débora Martins, and Mariela Cortés Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software Engineering—Co-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar Rodríguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fernández-Sánchez, Jessica Díaz, Jennifer Pérez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice—Co-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian D’Orazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance—Co-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and Training—Co-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud Computing—Co-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data Protection—A Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management—Co-Chairs: Timo Käkölä and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo Käkölä and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 Agustín Yagüe, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer Pérez, and Jessica Díaz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customer’s and the Vendor’s Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile Platforms—Co-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 Sébastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless Networks—Co-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jestädt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


