Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy An Initial Step Towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections Around the Globe 
 
Eric K. Clemons The Wharton School clemons@wharton.upenn.edu  Josh Wilson The Wharton School wilsonjs@wharton.upenn.edu Fujie JIN The Wharton School jinfujie@wharton.upenn.edu  
 
Online privacy is becoming an increasingly important topic, and an increa singly controversial one The EU is imposing strict limitations on the use of data obtained from its citizensê online activities  w h ile Big Data advocates and online advertisers in the United States are concerned that this may represent interference in their basic business models or even in international trade [1  It is clear that laws and regulations are inconsistent across national borders.  They are also inconsistent within nations, depending on the industry classification of companies, or even the designation given to specific technologies.  ISPs are prohibited from 
Abstract 
reading subscribersê email other information services companies can do so legally.  Data stored electronically is offered protection that is denied to data stored in the cloud This paper proposes that regulatory confusion be addressed starting with some basic principles of uniformity.  More importantly it suggests that regulation be driven by what consumers actually want, and provides some preliminary research aimed at determining what consumers want from privacy regulation around the world 
1 Introduction 
 
Consumer privacy legislation has received a great deal of attention globally.  The EU, Japan, Korea 
Malaysia, and many other nations are actively reviewing their policies towards online privacy 1 The US has preferred to allow the online information services industry to regulate itself, and the FTC has convened a meeting of the W3C to determine if an acceptable policy could be developed without active involvement by the Congress, the FTC, th e FCC, or other regulatory  been prompted by concerns about what companies like 
  
1 On May 25, 2013 Peking University Law School hosted a workshop on the future of Internet regulation 
with a significant focus on the future of privacy regulation.  On May 30th and 31st Keio University and Korea University hosted a workshop on Big Data, with a session on the future of privacy regulation in Asia On June 3, Tokyo University held a workshop on privacy and privacy regulation in Japan Google, Facebook, and AT&T in the US, Softbank and NTT in Japan, Daum and KT in Korea, and other large information services and communications firms might be able to do Paradoxically, the recent \(June 2013\nterest in, and outrage over, potential online privacy abuse in the United States has been prompted by revelations from a former CI A employee and former NSA 
consultant about widespread abuse of privacy by the National Security Agency.  Allegedly the NSA has been monitoring our calls 
We say paradoxically because there has been widespread outrage over what the NSA has been doing  e of national security 3 2], w ith only limited supervision by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance C nd yet, there has been virtually no concern in the US over what Google and Facebook have been doing, sometimes far more extensive than the privacy abuses of the NSA, in the interest purely of corporate gain, and with no supervision whatsoever.  Indeed, there has been more concern over the NSAês alleged abuses than there was over Googleês admitted violations of its own privacy poli 
 
 abuses than there was over Googleês admitted violations of its signed consent decree after its initial violations Our intent with this paper is to provide a sound basis for public policy concerning privacy, in the US and abroad.  In order to provide such a sound basis, we conducted surveys and focus groups, in the US, Japan Korea, and German, concerning consumersê attitudes towards the privacy policies of large information services firms.  We e xplored both consumers 
awareness of specific potential activities 
in which these large information services firms might engage and 
consumers 
approval of those activities 
 
whether or not firms actually engaged in them.  We also explored consumersê attitudes towards the degree of privacy protection they believe they received from their regulatory systems.  Finally, we explored parentsê attitudes towards data mining of their childrenês email accounts including school email accounts.  This work as yet has been completed only in the US and Japan Our research is motivated by the following beliefs Technology has rendered traditional relationship between personal identifiers and private information largely irrelevant.  We discuss this in sec 
 
2014 47th Hawaii International Conference on System Science 978-1-4799-2504-9/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/HICSS.2014.504 4083 


tion 3 below Regulations are largely inconsistent and have not kept pace with technology driven changes in the marketplace for information services.  There are two ways in which regulations have created a gap in which non-traditional information services companies act with limited regulatory oversight.  We discuss this in section 4, below We believe that regulatory protections for consumers should be the same, regardless of the company or carrier being regulated.  Re gulations generally place meaningful restrictions on telecommunications companies and other common carriers, because their capabilities and the dangers to privacy that they represented were well understood.  Laws, sometimes even constitutional protections, limit the ability of postal services and telecommunications companies to read their customersê messages, eavesdrop on their customers conversations, or even use the logs of customers conversations to track their behavior.  These protections have been extended to protect forms of communication that were unanticipated by the framersê of these regulations, such as email messages carried by common carriers.  In contrast, most information services companies, such as Facebook, Google, and Microsoft, face no similar restrictions on their use of customersê information We believe that regulatory protections for consumers should be simple, reasonable, and what the customer would expect.  They should be driven by the need to provide meaningful and modern protection and not driven by regulatorsê interpretation of and attempt to apply inapplicable legislation or precedent Once again, regulations are largely inconsistent and have not kept pace with technology driven changes in the marketplace for informati on services. It is clearly reasonable that conversations overheard because the speaker made no attempt to protect the conversation cannot be considered private or protected.  It is clearly reasonable that, by extension, email conversations that have been overheard for the same reasons cannot be considered private or pr otected.  There is no plausible rationale for arguing by extension that the text messages on a phone are not private because reading them is no different from overhearing a conversation  arguing that although email stored on a vendorês electronic storage is private and protected because it is covered by laws regulating the electronic storage of data, but the same email is not private and protected if stored in the cloud, because the cloud is not electronic  Most importantly for the contribution of this paper we believe research into the privacy protections that consumers want and expect online if fundamental to privacy policy.  If privacy policy is to be simple, reasonable, and consistent with consumersê preferences, it must be informed by an understanding of those preferences.  The principal contribution of our paper is an analysis of what consumer s want and expect from privacy protection, base d on our ongoing research around the world Our research findings can be summarized as follows 1\ers mostly do not know what search engines and other data intermediaries are doing with their data, and mostly they know that they do not know 2 ity of the practices of online service vendors when they use consumersê data.  This is captured through questions such as, çIf it were true that Google did track your searches, would you approve or disapprove?é or If it were true that your se rvice provider did read your texts, would you approve or disapprove?é  The vast majority of consumers di sapproved or strongly disapproved of most forms of the use of their online data, no matter what activities resulted in the capture of that data 3 and the use of their data by information services firms does not represent consent, and most certainly does not represent informed consen t.  We use the term çinformed consenté to refer to those consumers who are aware of a practice online and who also approve of that practice.  Our data suggests that informed consent is very limited, on the order of 0-1%, for all forms of online privacy abuse.  The data are largely consistent across populations surveyed in the US, Japan, Korea and Germany 4 lming majorities support the position that actually protecting consumersê privacy online should be the default setting on browsers and email services, and on linking online activities with text or GPS information obtained from the userês phone.  There was even stronger support for the position that any privacy settings a consumer had chosen to protect privacy, whether set explicitly by the consumer or set implicitly by accepting default settings, should be honored by online service providers.  To be clear consumers believed that the default settings should be do not track individual serv ices and do not integrate across multiple services, and that these default settings should be honored by all online service providers 5 doing enough to inform them about online risks to their privacy and consumers do not believe that regul ators are doing enough to protect them from online risks to their privacy 6 protecting the privacy of their children from data mining activities of information services vendors 
 
not 
 
 
4084 


7 privacy of their children fr om data mining.  They continue to feel strongly even if the email service provider offers email without charge in exchange to the right to perform data mining We do believe that public policy is important for two reasons 1\any consumers, including the youngest consumers, do not appear to be fully aware of the privacy risks they create for themselves 2\ntil the recent incident with the NSA, consumers did not appear to be greatly concerned with privacy risks, and even after the NSA disclosures most consumers appear to be more concerned with the potential of governmental abuses stemming from governmental privacy intrusions than the potential for corporate abuses stemming from far more pervasive corporate privacy intrusions We suspect that dealing with this public policy explicitly is important, and that the results of this survey are important, because it contradicts the young, hip blogosphere.  When Microsoft tried to create public awareness of and public interest in the problems of   knowledge, ours is the first study that attempts to gather opinion from a range of subjects This paper is structured as follows:  Section 2 provides alternative definitions of privacy and of invasions of privacy.  Section 3 provides a brief review of the regulatory gap in which most information services companies, other than common carriers and telecommunications providers, currently operate.  Section 4 describes the çmyth of anonymizationé; despite popular belief to the contrary, anonymous ads are not anonymous, better targeted ads are not better for you, and clicking on targeted ads can hurt you.  Section 5 describes our experimental design for our first survey which assessed consumersê attitudes towards protecting their own privacy.  Section 6 summarizes our findings from our first e xperiment, summarizing consumersê attitudes towards protecting their own privacy Section 7 describes our e xperimental design for our second survey, which assessed consumersê attitudes towards protecting their childrenês privacy.  Section 8 summarizes our findings from our first experiment summarizing consumersê attitudes towards protecting their own privacy.  Section 9 concludes the paper  There are at least three different ways to characterize privacy and online invasions of privacy  1 eatening form of privacy violation is represented by an uninvited intrusion into a userês personal space.  Online marketing, spam advertising, pop-ups, and sponsored sites around the edges of a web-page can all be seen as invasions of the userês personal space.  Our focus groups indicated that this was the form of privacy viola tion most salient in users minds, across age groups and across nations.  When users thought of privacy violations from their email phone, search, or social network providers, they thought almost exclusivel y about unwanted ads and unwanted interruptions.  That is, they thought of privacy violations in terms of unwanted knocking on a hotel room door when a çPrivacy Pleaseé sign was visibly hanging from the doorknob 2 form of privacy violation is represented by fraudulent ecommerce transactions, or even by identity theft There is no indication that Google, Daum, Navor Yahoo, or Bing have been asso ciated with such threats to privacy, and there is no indication that consumers were concerned about this 3 important to Google, Daum, Navor, and Yahoo are based on personal profiling for some form of commercial advantage.  This is definitely an intermediate form of privacy violation.  It is far more than simply an invasion of personal space, and far less than identity theft.  It involves uniquely identifying an individual and associating him with one or more characteristics of interest to an advertiser.  The advertiserês intent may be benign; the firm simply wants to know everyone interested in visiting Osaka, or everyone interested in buying a food processor; this simply results in being sent ads for flights of interest, or products of interest The advertiserês intent may also be less benign; the advertiser wants to know who engages in risky hobbies so that he can avoid offering life insurance at rates that are too low, or who desperately needs to get to Chicago, so he can offer higher airfares Interestingly, consumers participating in our focus groups in Japan and Korea initially seemed to focus solely on the first form of privacy violation, the uninvited intrusion into personal space through various forms of spam and targeted marketing.  A few hypothetical examples of integration and profiling were sufficient to arouse consumersê concerns.  What if your phone tracked your position and it was clear that you now had a new geographic center of activity, your home, your office, your favor ite restaurants, and the apartment of your new girlfriend?  What if the phone read your text and knew whom you were seeing for lunch?  What if it started suggesting her favorite restaurants to you?  What if it accidentally started suggesting your new girlfriendês favorite restaurants to your friends?  What if it accidentally started suggesting your new girlfriendês fa vorite restaurants to your other girlfriend A participant at one of the focus groups got truly 
 
2 Defining Privacy 
 
4085 


agitated when one of the other participants described targeted ads based on his sear ch history.  He suddenly realized that shortly after he was diagnosed with cancer he started to get email ads for cancer treatments nursing care, and hospices.  He realized that this was not simply coincidence and random spam; his search engine provider had made his most personal and sensitive medical history public, based on his searching for information on his specific form of cancer Participants at focus groups changed their attitudes towards privacy violations as they considered increasingly intrusive hypothetical examples of data mining and data integration.  While these hypotheticals eventually became quite intrusiv e, none actually violated the published privacy policies of major search engine providers.  Subjects came to realize during the course of the focus groups how much their search engine providers know.  Moreover, th ey came to believe that if your search engine provider knows who you are and where you are and what you are going to do next and with whom you are going to do it, this is potentially compromising.  This is potentially compromising, no matter who you are, and no matter how unexceptional your life might appear at the moment Since participants became increasingly aware of the full range of potential privacy violations only as the focus groups progressed, we believe that the level of awareness among survey subjects was actually lower than the level of awareness of focus group participants.  We thus believe that the survey results are actually weaker than they appear and actually understate levels of concern among online users.  Although the survey results appear quite strong, they understand concerns because they are based upon subjectsê thinking principally about the weakest of the three levels of privacy violation Information services companies operate in a regulatory vacuum, created by th e difference between tight privacy regulations imposed upon traditional postal carriers and telecommunications carriers on one side and the almost total absence of privacy regulation on many information systems companies like Google and Facebook 1 mail, and a rogue individual mail carrier cannot intercept and read your US mail, nor can a curious neighbor; doing so is a felony.  Even government agencies cannot read your mail in the process of a criminal investigation without a court order.  In contrast, American companies like Google and Facebook, and foreign companies like Daum and Navor, have built much of their publicly presented business models on their right to read and data mine any and all of your writings whether public, like a Facebook post, or private, like a gmail or a text from an Android phone 2 AT&T in the US, cannot eavesdrop on your communications or use your phone logs; indeed, it cannot allow a government agency to tap your phone or observe your phone call log without a court order.  In contrast Google can use your call logs from an Android phone to assess your social network, and Google has applied for patents that would allow it convert voice to text and thus to text mine ev en your private voice communications 3\ise, until recently an ISP provider, like Yahoo in Japan, could not examine your communications, because an ISP provider was treated as a telecommunications company; in contrast, Google Japan could do whatever it wants with the packets that it sees a user generate.  Interestingly, regulators responded to this anomaly not by prot ecting Googleês users from invasion of privacy, but ra ther by subjecting Yahooês users to the same risks as Google users.  Since this so evidently is counter to the preferences expressed by participants in our focus groups and surveys, we believe that this provides further support for the importance of understanding consumersê preferences and of using consumersê preferences in the design of regulatory regimes to protect consumersê privacy We believe that ça packet is a packet is a packet and similar packets should be treated similarly, whether they are carried by a traditional postal carrier, a package delivery service, an email vendor, the users ISPs, or the backbone network that moves that packet between ISPs.  Whether the packet is hand written on a single sheet of paper, t yped onto a single sheet of paper, typed and loaded into a single SMS frame, or typed and loaded into numerous packets for delivery over the internet, usersê communications should be protected Privacy may not be dead, but anonymization by those who capture personal data surely is.  Despite any and all claims that an information vendor protects consumersê privacy through anonymization, this simply is false.  There are two factors, completely separate that independently are sufficient to render anonymization impossible.  Histori cally anonymization involved stripping off what are called personal identifiers, such as name and address and date of birth, or social security number, or other combinations that uniquely identify a single individual.  This is how most privacy legislation is written today.  Institutional Review Boards follow federal guidelines when they insist that research data be stripped of personal identifiers, and if it is 
 
3 Understanding the Regulatory Gap in Which Information Services Companies Operate 4 The Myth of Anonymization 
  
4086 


necessary to be able to identify individuals later the data and the identifying keys be encrypted and stored in separate locations.  Both factors undo the effects of anonymization that is ba sed on stripping off unique personal identifiers 1\bine dozens hundreds, even thousands of seemingly inconsequential factors, to identify an individual.  Big data eliminates the relationship between identity and personal identifiers.  An individual can now be uniquely identified in countless ways, without the use of personal identifying information 2 dividual to identify himself, under conditions in which he would never willingly consent to do so Personal identifying information is no longer necessary for identifying an individual.  Work by Acquisti and others shows that city of birth, year of birth, and the last for digits of a social security number is generally sufficient to identify an  was precisely the data that Google required to accompany every entry in their competition for childrenês art  Google systematically engages in identity theft targeted at children.  And yet they clearly have captured data that are sufficient to allow them to do so.  Work by researchers at Microsoft has demonstrated that an individualês sequence of seemingly irrelevant online likesé with very high probability can allow the researchers to identify an individualês sex, sexual orientation, ma h en this is combined with a modest amount of additional information it is once again possible to identify a unique individual More importantly, when an individual clicks on a targeted ad, he uniquely identifies himself and associates himself with the bucket of individuals with the characteristics the advertiser used to define the bucket We call this the paradox of anonymous ads; these ads are indeed anonymous, until the user clicks on them; at this point the user has been fully identified, by himself Airlines have long searched for the  pricing system, which would enable them to charge each individual his maximum willingness to pay for each trip.  The best they can do now is to approximate by attributes that they ha ve found are loosely suggestive of willingness to pay.  If I buy my ticket in advance, I am willing to accept severe cancellation penalties, and am willing to stay for a weekend; this is probably a leisure trip, and I will be given a deep discount.  If I buy later, I am unwilling to pay cancellation fees, and travel mid-week; this is probably a business trip, and I will be offered higher fares.  But airlines would like to know far more, and data mining offers this.  Imagine that someone texts his best friend in Chicago and says that he is terribly bored and would love to join him for dinner tomorrow night, if he can find a good airfare.  Now imagine that instead the same individual texts his da ughter in Chicago, says that his best friend is terribly ill, asks her to find a hotel room immediately, and te lls her he needs to fly to Chicago as quickly as possible.  An information services firm does not need to compromise the privacy of an individual by telling an airline that the is bored, or that the has a friend who is desperately ill.  All the information services firm needs to do is send that individual an ad appropriate to the individualês condition, or descriptive bucket.  As soon as the individual clicks on the ad, he identifies himself as bored, or as having a friend who is desperately ill, depending on the ad he received.  His airfare can be priced accord ingly.  The truth-o-matic has been delivered.  No major university would be allowed to perform research that induced individual research subjects to identify themselves, especially if this could and would be used in ways that cause the subjects economic harm.  And yet there is no regulation of this behavior by the targeted advertising industry.  Indeed, many do not understand the problem, and argue that targeted ads are better for the consumer because they waste less of the consumerês time, or are at worst harmless.  They are not harmless, and do not need to be harmless We are not arguing that data mining is good, or that it is bad.  We are not arguing that targeted advertising is good, or that it is bad.  We are arguing that anonymization based on the process of stripping off what are normally called personal identifying information is no longer sufficient, in the presence of data mining.  We are not arguing that targeted advertising is good, or that it is bad, or that individuals have or have not consented to receive targeted ads in exchange for free internet services.  We are arguing that when an individual clicks on a targeted ad he now uniquely identifies himself, and that he ma y be doing so in a way that unambiguously links him to a set of actions and attributes with which he would ne ver willingly link himself Whether or not consumers actually believe that privacy is dead, it suits th e companies that exploit private information to act as if this is so.  For example in 2010, Facebook changed its privacy policy so that its use of subscribers' private information is now the default, requiring users to opt out of publicly displaying information and granting Facebook the right to share information with third party sites year, Google changed it privacy policy, allowing it to merge all the information it has collected from any and all of its products to develop an integrated profile on  
 
5 Experimental Design Ñ Experiment One 
truth-o-matic specific individual specific individual 
 
4087 


 
6 Principal Findings on Consumersê Attitudes towards Protecting Their Own Privacy 
      
The study we conducted seeks to understand the following The extent to which consumers do or do not know what information is collected, stored, and analyzed The extent to which consumers do or do not know information is stored, combined, and analyzed The degree to which consumers do or do not approve of practices, whether or not they were aware of them The extent to which they do or do not believe that regulators are doing an adequate job of informing them about potential thr eats to their privacy The extent to which they do or do not believe that regulators are doing an adequate job of protecting them from potential threat to their privacy Consumersê preferences about whether privacy, do not track, or do not track and integrate, should be the default The study 2 can be viewed in some sense as an update of prior studies, including a study conducted by a colleague at the Annenberg School of Communication  Annenberg study was conducted, threats to privacy have become greater.   Facebook has grown from millions of users to hundreds of millions.  Google has acquired YouTube, and launched Chrome, Android and Google +.  The amount of information captured and the possibility of integration of information from multiple sources is enormously greater than it was seven years ago.  Incidents like the Wi-Spy scandal   The abuse of privacy through Google analytics has resulted in litigation in the EU [3 oogle recently accepted a 20-year audit because of privacy abuses during the launch of its social network  and potentially more damaging than when previous studies were conducted, a nd new studies are clearly warranted As with our prior studies on consumer trust in  ences in behavior are interesting.  We have therefore conducted this study in the US, Japan, Korea, and Germany Even working with survey subjects who we believe were principally focusing on the weakest of the three forms of privacy intrusion we found strong disapproval of many common practices of online service providers.  Users in general are willing to accept tracking of their searches.  They do not always know which activities already occur, and they are less tolerant of tracking or monitoring many of their other online activities They are less comfortable with the tracking and mining of their texts sent \(see table 1\ceived see table 2 for mining the content of emails that they send or receive \(see tables 3 and 4\paring tables 3 and 4 with table 5, we see that surprisingly, gmail users are both more aware of privacy intrusions and more concerned about these intrusions.   Table 6 shows that usersê acceptance of having the content of their voice communications mined is even more limited.  Finally table 7 shows that subjects are only slightly more accepting of mining data from social networks.  As can be seen from these tables, many subjects are unaware that various intrusions either are contemplated or have already been implemented, or have a misplaced confidence that they have not been.  The lack of public objection therefore may be indicative of ignorance rather than indicative of approval Tables 8 and 9 show the extent to which consumers believe that their regulators are doing an adequate job ensuring that they are aware of the online threats to their privacy and the extent to which consumers believe that regulators are doing an adequate job of protecting them from online threats to their privacy Two points can be ob served immediately 1\rgin, consumers believe that their regulators are not doing an adequate job of informing them of online threats to their privacy 2 gin, consumers believe that their regulators are not doing an adequate job of protecting them from online threats to their privacy  
   2  n=442 many \(n=505  
      
Table 1. Awareness of and acceptance of mining texts sent Table 2.Awareness of and acceptance of mining texts received 
 
4088 


 7 Experimental Design Ñ Experiment Two 
002 
Our findings regarding privacy settings are summarized in table 10.  Our survey defined as recording and analyzing a userês behavior over time at a single website and as recording, integrating, and analyzing all of a userês online behavior including search, texting, email, phone, and other activities.  Comparing the data in tables 1-7 to that of table 10, consumers appear to be much less tolerant of online tracking and integration than their behaviors and their answers to indi vidual questions would suggest.  Most significantly, the data appears to be no support for Googleês position, adopted by the W3C that a browser with DNT se t as the default would not be in compliance with the standard, and thus that the   We find ourselves echoing Microsoftês position at the W3C   The second experiment was similar to the first, except that it was aimed at assessing parentsê attitudes towards data mining the email accounts of their public school students 3 While data mining of students   spread, and may indeed be legal when approval is granted by the school districtês representatives Our second experiment had three parts 1 A first survey was conducted, assessing parents attitudes towards data mining of their childrenês email accounts, including a range of forms of detailed tracking and integration with search, texting and other online activities 2 A second survey was conducted, asking public school students to describe activities that they performed online, or were aware of other students 
    3 n=469 n=241 
tracking integration To say that a standard cannot not support a privacy by default choice for consumers is odd to say the least 
002 002 
     
 
Table 3. Awareness of and acceptance of mining emails sent Table 4. Awareness of and acceptance of mining emails received Table 5. Email usersê awareness of and acceptance of mining gmail Table 6.Awareness of and acceptance of mining voice Table 7.Awareness of and acceptance of and mining data from social networks Table 8.Consumersê confidence that regulators are informing them adequately about threats to privacy online Table 9. Consumersê confidence that regulators are protecting them adequately from online threats to privacy Table 10. Consumersê attitudes towards online tracking and integration 
  
4089 


 
002 
performing online 3 A third survey was conducted, replicating the questions asked of parents in the first survey.  In this survey, parents were first informed about what students actually did online The survey was performed in the United States and Japan.  Results are summarized in the next section Table 11 shows that Japanese parents are significantly less aware of the activities that are done by online information service providers than their US counterparts are.  Approxima tely one third are aware that searches are tracked, and approximately one fourth are aware that ema il can be linked to other online activities.  More than 75% of US parents are aware that searches are tracked, and 40% or more are aware that some form of integration is performed across different online services  Table 12 shows that both US and Japanese parents would strongly prefer that their childrenês online activities be free from data mining.  However, Japanese parents are significantly more tolerant of the possibility that studentsê email may be data mined even if the email is provided by the studentsê school district.  This may in part be explained by their belief that their students are less likely to engage in inappropriate behavior online Our data \(not reported here due to length limitations cerned about data mining th eir studentsê online behavior.  A significant fraction of students have engaged in inappropriate behavior online or are aware of students who have.  As we have discussed in section 4 above nothing learned about online behavior is truly anonymous. Japanese parents do appear to have less reason for concern, given the apparently better behavior of Japanese students online.  However, self-reported data on sensitive subject areas are always imperfect, and differences in cultural norms may partly explain differences in the data on self-reported student activities  Additionally, studentsê have their own attitudes towards being profiled and to having their online activities tracked and integrated, and may consider this an invasion of privacy.  St udentsê strongly disapprove of tracking and integrating their online behavior, as summarized in tables 13 and 14  
 
 
8 Principal Findings on Consumersê Attitudes towards Protecting Their Childrenês Privacy 
Table 11. US and Japanese parentsê awareness of data mining their childrenês online activities Data values are stacked vertically, US / Japan Average Table 12. US and Japanese parentsê attitudes towards data mining their childrenês online activities.  Data values are stacked vertically, US / Japan Average Table 13. US and Japanese studentsê attitudes towards tracking their individual online activities Data values are stacked vertically, US / Japan Average 
4090 


 Acquisti, A., John, L. and Lowenstein, G.  2009 What is privacy worth? Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE  A ltm an, I.  The Envir onment and Social Behavior Privacy, Personal Space, Territory and Crowding Brooks/Cole Pub. Co., In c., Monterey, CA, 1975  Angwin, Julia. \(2010, Ju ly 10 Settlement on Privacy.é  The Wall Street Journal http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303567704 577517081178553046.html  Bowdon, Bob. \(2011, Feb. 22 hy has Google been Collecting Kidsê Social Security Numbers under the Guise of an Art Contest?é Huffington Post http://www.huffingtonpost.com bob-bowdon/why-hasgoogle-been-colle_b_825754.html  C l em ons, E., JIN F., W ilson, J., R E N  F., M a tt, C  Hess, T., and KOH, N. çThe Role of Trust in Successful Ecommerce Websites in China:  Field Observations and Experimental Studies.é Proceedings, 45 th International Conference on System Sciences, Maui, Hawaii, January 2013  Department of Justice. \(2011 Aug. 11 Forfeits $500 Million Generated by Online Ads & Prescription Drug Sales by Canadian Online Pharmacies. Press Release. http://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/2011/August/11-dag1078.html  Electronic Privacy Info rmation Center. çStudent Privacy.é http://epic.org/privacy/student  York, 1999  European Commission. \(2013, Feb. 20 MEMO/13/124, çEU Data Protecti on: European Parliament's Industry committee backs uniform data protection rules Press Release. http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_MEMO13-124_en.htm  Fam ily Educational Rights and Privacy A ct. 20 U.S.C. ß 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99  Federal Trade Commission. 2009.  Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising http://www.ftc.gov/os/2009/02 P085400behavadreport.pdf  Federal Trading Commi ssion. 2011. çFTC Charges Deceptive Privacy Practices in Googleês Rollout of Its Buzz Social Network.é Press Release http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2011/03/google.shtm 
Table 14. US and Japanese studentsê attitudes towards linking their email accounts with their texting. Data values are stacked vertically, US Japan / Average 
 
 
What data are consumers willing to trade in exchange for convenience and services online? Would they be as willing to engage in this trade if their privacy rights were more protected and if they had the ability to exercise meaningful control over their data 
    
Consumersê preferences would suggest that the default privacy settings should be no tracking without explicit permission and no in tegration without explicit permission.  Government s should hold firms accountable for violations and should ensure that violations are visible when they occur.  Governments should ensure that consumers can know exactly what companies have done, so that they can protect themselves, register displeasure, and change vendors if they deem it necessary to stop violations of their privacy.  Our data also show that the public is not widely aware of criminal violations of privacy, such as the WiSpy scandal in the US or iPhone hacking in the US, or Google Analytics violation of EU privacy laws Given that these violations are strongly counter to consumersê preferences perhaps they should receive greater attention and be more severely punished when they occur Many have argued that consumersê use of systems that compromise their priv acy do so fully informed and accepting the reduction in personal privacy as a free trade and a fair exchange for services rendered Clearly, we do not believe this to be the case, and clearly we do not believe that consumers are fully informed or have offered informed consent.  As Jay  We believe that any policy regulations enacted should have the following characteristics Regulations should treat companies equally regardless of their industry classification.  Telecommunications companies, regulated common carriers, and information services providers should have comparable obligations Regulations should be consistent.  If letters are protected, then emails and texts should be protected as well.  If information stored in remote electronic data storage facilities is protected, then information stored in remote electronic cloud data storage facilities should be protected as well Companiesê policies should be transparent.  Users should know what they are giving up, in exchange for çfree services.é  Users should understand the loss of anonymity associated with data mining and targeted ads.  Users should understand how the information gathered can be used, both for them and against them The fact that a service is free is not sufficient justification for obscuring the risks associated with that service.  No tobacco company could successfully argue that it was not subject to regulation because it provided its tobacco products free of charge to public school students.  Similarly providing information services free of charge does not eliminate the need to provide products that are safe and that observe all relevant regulations We are still conducting focus groups and experiments in additional locations.  Data analysis is also ongoing 
    
9 Conclusions References 
4091 


 
 Fleischer, P. \(2013, Feb. 17 http://peterfleischer.blogspot.c om/2013/02/dox-quixote.html  Goldman, David. \(2012, June 8 Google Play Chicken Over Do Not Track.é CNN Money http://money.cnn.com/2012/06/07/technology/do-nottrack/index.htm  Google Street View Privacy Concerns. In W i kipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychology  Gross, R., and Acquisti, A. 2005. Information Revelation and Privacy in Online Social Networks.  Proceedings of WPESê05 \(pp. 71Ö80  Hearing on Consumer Online Privacy: Hearing Before the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor2010 http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG111shrg67686/pdf/CHRG-111shrg67686.pdf  Hill, Kashmir. \(2013, April 12 gotten a Warrant before Reading Customerês Texts on a Drug Dealerês iPhone?é Forbes http://www.forbes.com/sites/kashmirhill/2013/04/12/shouldcops-have-gotten-a-warrant-before-reading-customers-textson-a-drug-dealers-iphone   Hill, Kashmir. \(2012, April 30 i Spy Google Engineer Wanted Snapshots of Where People We and What They Were Doing.é Forbes http://www.forbes.com/sites kashmirhill/2012/04/30/wi-spygoogle-engineer-wanted-snapshots-of-where-people-wereand-what-they-were-doing  Jaffer, Jameel. \(2013, June 10 rveillance Threat Real or Imagined?é Room for Debate. The New York Times http://www.nytimes.com/roomfo rdebate/2013/06/09/is-thensa-surveillance-threat-real-or-imagined?hp  Jennings v. Jennings. \(S.C. Ct. App Jul. 14, 2010 http://www.sccourts.org/opini ons/HTMLFiles/SC/27177.pdf  Kesan, J.P., Hayes, C.M and Bashir, M  N. çInfo r mation Privacy and Data Control in Cloud Computing Consumers, Privacy Preferences and Market Efficiency Washington and Lee Law Review, \(70:1  Kosinski, M Stillwell, D., and Graepel, T. \(2013 March 11 digital records of human behavior.é Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2013/03/06/1218772110.f ull.pdf+html  Margulis, S. 1977. "Conceptions of Privacy: Current Status and Next Steps," Journal of Social Issues \(33 21  M cGee, M att. \(2011, Jan. 12 Google Analytics Now Verboted.é Search Engine Land http://searchengineland.com/german-govt-says-googleanalytics-now-verboten-61109  Microsoft. Advertisement. Scroogled http://www.scroogled.com   M illian, M a rk. \(2012, Jan. 25 e rge User Data Across its Services.é CNN.com http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/24 tech/web/google-privacypolicy  Nakashima, E., W ilson, S. \(2013, June 11 Sues over NSA Surveillance Program.é The Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/aclu-suesover-nsa-surveillance-program/2013/06/11/fef71e2e-d2ab11e2-a73e-826d299ff459_story.html   Perez, Sarah. \(2013, Feb. 7 New, Aggressive Marketing From Microsoft Warns Gmail Users That Google Reads Their Email." Tech Crunch http://techcrunch.com/2013/02/07 seriously-this-again-newaggressive-marketing-from-microsoft-warns-gmail-usersthat-google-reads-their-email   Risen, J., Lichtblau, E. \(2009, Jan. 15 ffirms Wiretapping Without Warrants.é The New York Times http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/16/washington/16fisa.html ref=foreignintelligencesurveillanceactfisa   Roberts, D., Ackerman, S. \(2013, June 6 Swells after NSA Phone Records Court Order Revelations The Guardian http://www.guardian.co.uk world/2013/jun/06/obamaadministration-nsa-verizon-records   Schm itt, E., Sanger, D Savage, C. \(2013, June 7 Administration Says Mining of Data is Crucial to Fight Terror. New York Times http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/08/us/mining-of-data-iscalled-crucial-to-fight-terror.html?hpw   Sengupta, Somni. \(2013, April 24 Mail Law From Last Century The New York Times http://www.nytimes.com/2013 04/25/technology/updatingan-e-mail-law-from-the-last-century.html?pagewanted=all   Seward, Zachary. \(2013, Jan. 18 Made It Impossible for You to Opt Out of Search Results Business Insider. http://www.businessinsider.com/facebookhas-made-it-impossible-for-you-to-opt-out-of-search-results2013-1   Temple, James. \(2012, June 6 Group Rejects Default Do Not Track.é The Technology Chronicles. SFGate http://blog.sfgate.com/techchron/2012/06/06/internetstandards-group-rejects-default-do-not-track   Turow, J. \(2005, June  ican Shoppers Online and Offline.é Report of the Annenberg Public Policy Center   W auters, Robin 2009, Nov. 24 Analytics is Illegal, German Officials Claim.é TechCrunch http://techcrunch.com/2009/11/24/google-analytics-illegalgermany   W estin, A. Privacy and Freedom. Atheneum Books New York, 1967  
4092 


Figure 6 Memory hierarchy behaviors among different workloads DataBench is higher than in the traditional workloads The average L2 cache MPKI of BigDataBench is 21 while that for HPCC  PARSEC  SPECFP  and SPECINT is 4.8 5.1 14 and 16 respectively Among BigDataBench  most of the online service workloads have the higher L2 cache MPKI on the average 40 except Nutch server 4.1 while most of the of\003ine and realtime analytics workloads have the lower L2 cache MPKI on the average 13 except BFS 56 Third the average L3 cache MPKI of BigDataBench is 1.5 while the average number of HPCC  PARSEC  SPECFP  and SPECINT is 2.4 2.3 1.4 and 1.9 respectively This observation shows that the LLC L3 caches of the processors Xeon E5645 on our testbed are ef\002cient for the big data workloads corroborating the observation in DCBench  The ef\002ciency of L3 caches also can explain why the 003oating point intensity of BigDataBench on the Xeon E5645 is higher than on the Xeon E5310 only two levels of caches The TLB behaviors are shown in Figure 6-2 First the average number of ITLB MPKI of BigDataBench is higher than in the traditional workloads The average number of ITLB MPKI of BigDataBench is 0.54 while that of HPCC  PARSEC  SPECFP  and SPECINT is 0.006 0.005 0.06 and 0.08 respectively The more ITLB MPKI of BigDataBench may be caused by the complex third party libraries and deep software stacks of the big data workloads Second the average number of DTLB MPKI of BigDataBench is also higher than in the traditional workloads The average number of DTLB MPKI of BigDataBench is 2.5 while that of HPCC  PARSEC  SPECFP  and SPECINT is 1.2 0.7 2 and 2.1 respectively And we can also 002nd that the numbers of DTLB MPKI of the big data workloads range from 0.2  Nutch server  to 14  BFS  The diversity of DTLB behaviors re\003ects the data access patterns are diverse in big data workloads which proves that diverse workloads should be included in big data benchmarks  Lessons Learned  On a typical state-of-practice processor Intel Xeon E5645 we 002nd that L3 caches of the processor are ef\002cient for the big data workloads which indicates multi-core CPU design should pay more attention to area and energy ef\002ciency of caches for the big data applications The high number of L1I cache MPKI implies that better L1I cache performance is demanded for the big data workloads We conjecture that the deep software stacks of the big data workloads are the root causes of high frond-end stalls We are planning further investigation into this phenomenon by changing the software stacks under test e.g replacing MapReduce with MPI 7 Conclusion In this paper we presented our joint research efforts with several industrial partners on big data benchmarking Our methodology is from real systems covering not only broad application scenarios but also diverse and representative real-world data sets We proposed an innovative data generation methodology and tool to generate scalable volumes of big data keeping the 4 V properties Last we chose and developed nineteen big data benchmarks from dimensions of application scenarios operations algorithms data types data sources software stacks and application types Also we reported the workloads characterization results of big data as follows 002rst in comparison with the traditional benchmarks the big data workloads have very low 


operation intensity Second the volume of data input has non-negligible impact on micro-architecture characteristics of big data workloads so architecture research using only simple applications and small data sets is not suf\002cient for big data scenarios Last but not least on a typical state-ofpractice processor Intel Xeon E5645 we 002nd that for the big data workloads the LLC of the processor is effective and better L1I cache performance is demanded as the big data workloads suffer high L1I cache MPKI 8 Acknowledgements We are very grateful to the anonymous reviewers and our shepherd Dr Michael D Powell This work is supported by Chinese 973 projects Grants No 2011CB302502 and 2014CB340402 NSFC projects Grants No 60933003 and 61202075 and the BNSF project Grant No.4133081 References  http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/bigdata  http://hadoop.apache.org/mapreduce/docs/current/gridmix.html  Alexa website http://www.alexa.com/topsites/global  Amazon movie reviews http://snap.stanford.edu/data/webAmazon.html  Amp lab big data benchmark https://amplab.cs.berkeley.edu/benchmark  Bigdatabench http://prof.ict.ac.cn/BigDataBench  facebook graph http://snap.stanford.edu/data/egonetsFacebook.html  google web graph http://snap.stanford.edu/data/webGoogle.html  ibmbigdatahub http://www.ibmbigdatahub.com/infographic/fourvs-big-data  Sort benchmark home page http://sortbenchmark.org  wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org  T G Armstrong V Ponnekanti D Borthakur and M Callaghan Linkbench a database benchmark based on the facebook social graph 2013  L A Barroso and U H 250 olzle The datacenter as a computer An introduction to the design of warehouse-scale machines Synthesis Lectures on Computer Architecture  4\(1 2009  M Beyer Gartner says solving big data challenge involves more than just managing volumes of data http://www.gartner.com/it/page.jsp?id=1731916  B F Cooper A Silberstein E Tam R Ramakrishnan and R Sears Benchmarking cloud serving systems with ycsb In Proceedings of the 1st ACM symposium on Cloud computing  SoCC 10 pages 143\226154 2010  C Engle A Lupher R Xin M Zaharia M J Franklin S Shenker and I Stoica Shark fast data analysis using coarse-grained distributed memory In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data  pages 689\226692 ACM 2012  M Ferdman A Adileh O Kocberber S Volos M Alisafaee D Jevdjic C Kaynak A D Popescu A Ailamaki and B Falsa\002 Clearing the clouds A study of emerging workloads on modern hardware Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems  2012  W Gao Y Zhu Z Jia C Luo L Wang J Zhan Y He S Gong X Li S Zhang and B Qiu Bigdatabench a big data benchmark suite from web search engines The Third Workshop on Architectures and Systems for Big Data ASBD 2013 in conjunction with ISCA 2013   A Ghazal M Hu T Rabl F Raab M Poess A Crolotte and H.-A Jacobsen Bigbench Towards an industry standard benchmark for big data analytics In SIGMOD 2013  2013  S Huang J Huang J Dai T Xie and B Huang The hibench benchmark suite Characterization of the mapreducebased data analysis In Data Engineering Workshops ICDEW 2010 IEEE 26th International Conference on  pages 41\22651 IEEE 2010  Z Jia L Wang J Zhan L Zhang and C Luo Characterizing data analysis workloads in data centers In Workload Characterization IISWC 2013 IEEE International Symposium on  IEEE  C Luo J Zhan Z Jia L Wang G Lu L Zhang C Xu and N Sun Cloudrank-d benchmarking and ranking cloud computing systems for data processing applications Frontiers of Computer Science  6\(4 2012  Z Ming C Luo W Gao R Han Q Yang L Wang and J Zhan Bdgs A scalable big data generator suite in big data benchmarking In Arxiv  2014  A Pavlo E Paulson A Rasin D J Abadi D J DeWitt S Madden and M Stonebraker A comparison of approaches to large-scale data analysis In Proceedings of the 2009 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of data  SIGMOD 09 pages 165\226178 2009  M Seltzer D Krinsky K Smith and X Zhang The case for application-speci\002c benchmarking In Hot Topics in Operating Systems 1999 Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop on  pages 102\226107 IEEE 1999  Y Tay Data generation for application-speci\002c benchmarking VLDB Challenges and Visions  2011  P Wang D Meng J Han J Zhan B Tu X Shi and L Wan Transformer a new paradigm for building dataparallel programming models Micro IEEE  30\(4 2010  S Williams A Waterman and D Patterson Roo\003ine an insightful visual performance model for multicore architectures Communications of the ACM  52\(4 2009  H Xi J Zhan Z Jia X Hong L Wang L Zhang N Sun and G Lu Characterization of real workloads of web search engines In Workload Characterization IISWC 2011 IEEE International Symposium on  volume 11 pages 15\22625 IEEE 2011  M Zaharia M Chowdhury T Das A Dave J Ma M McCauley M Franklin S Shenker and I Stoica Resilient distributed datasets A fault-tolerant abstraction for in-memory cluster computing In Proceedings of the 9th USENIX conference on Networked Systems Design and Implementation  pages 2\2262 USENIX Association 2012  J Zhan L Zhang N Sun L Wang Z Jia and C Luo High volume computing Identifying and characterizing throughput oriented workloads in data centers In Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium Workshops  PhD Forum IPDPSW 2012 IEEE 26th International  pages 1712\226 1721 IEEE 2012 


Triggering Creativity through Semantic Cross-domain Web Crawling and Routing Francesco Taglino, Fabrizio Smith Institute for System Analysis and Co mputer Science, CNR, Rome, Italy  Integration of Emerging Learning Technologies in Secondary Schools: A Burkina Faso Case Study Romaric R. Zongo University of Minnesota ñ Twin Cities, Minnesota, USA  Visualization of Energy Consumption: Motivating fo r a Sustainable Behaviour Through Social Media Caroline So  e Olsen stfold University College, Halden, Norway   INDUSTRY POSTERS  Annotation and Deep Search of Se mi-Structured Technical Documents Chris Macks Progeny Systems Corporation, Virginia, USA   


  Paper 2581 Version 2  14   Flight i nformation and processing   Presentation and projection of flight profiles   Real time operational information   Managing both pilot operator and air traffic controller workloads   Procedural processes supported by enhanced automation capabilities   Control sector complexity and management   Separation a ssurance   Airspace d esign and p rocedures   Investment in resolving these constraints  will drive the rate of adoption in civil UAS operations in the NAS One p art of the investment will be driven by the FAA\222s \223F acilities and Equipment\224 F&E Budget over  the next ten years Another part will be driven by defense and federal investment  in R&D  The remaining part will be driven by private investment seeking to develop profitable supplie r s and manufacturing firms of UAS Unfortunately   private investment will not fully launch until there is a clear indication of the public investment into implementing the requisite air traffic management  and air traffic control  ATM/ATC changes into the NAS infrastructure and there i s a common  approach through avionic standards in UA V  equipage   It is expected that avionic standards would lower the end user costs The impact on NAS infrastructure is the outline in the following subsection  Today\222s Air Traffic Control System  Today\222s air traffic control system is built around four basic pillars. These are communications, navigation, surveillance and infrastructure. The mortar holding these pillars together is aviation policy, rules and procedures  The FAA Air Traffic Organizat ion \(ATO\ has identified over 25 FAA procedural orders and notices that will need to be revised to accommodate routine  UAS operations in the NAS. This does not include advisory and informational materials that need to be developed and briefed to air traffi c controllers, pilots and other aviation stakeholders Additionally NAS investments to accommodate UAS efforts and associated costs must extend  beyond training requirements and procedural developments to include modification of infrastructure to permit an d to optimize efficiency and safety of UAS operations in the NAS  The majority of UAS operating in the NAS today are predominantly operated by the DoD. They were not designed with NAS compatibility in mind but rather to meet military mission needs. It is e xpected future commercial UAS will be designed and operated much more along the lines of manned aircraft. For example, current DoD UAS do not have Flight Management Systems and associated NAS aeronautical database and cannot be program m ed to fly approved F AA instrument procedures such as an instrument landing system \(ILS\ approach. Future commercial UAS operating in the NAS will need have integrated avionics systems and NAS capabilities similar to those of manned aircraft. However, unique challenges associa ted with UAS will remain and drive functional changes across many NAS project and programs. Some of these anticipated drivers or changes are listed by FAA program area below  En Route Automation Modernization \(ERAM 227 ERAM will be impacted by the need to be able to accept and process and display lengthy and complex UAS flight plans that include automated flight profile contingencies to the air traffic controller. This includes the ability to display a 20 minute planned route of flight on a controller\222s displa y suite  ERAM needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in an en route center airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained  COA  process now is in use  Nati onal Voice System \(NVS  227 Future air traffic control voice switching systems must be able to provide timely and direct pilot to controller voice and data e.g text messaging\ communications via Voice Over Internet Protocol \(V o IP  Terminal Automation Mode rnization and Replacement TAMR  227 TAMR needs to be able to display to review to modify and to approve a UAS flight plan request originating in a terminal airspace environment as a 24 hour file and fly replacement to the current constrained COA  process now is use. TAMR also needs to be able to surveil approved UAS flights within the terminal environment  Terminal Information Display System \(IDS\ and En Route Information Display System \(ERIDS  227 Information support systems need to be able to inges t to and  to rapidly display unique local procedures and associated graphics associated with UAS operations. These include pilot communications and UAV control lost ink procedures  System Wide Information Management \(SWIM  227 SWIM  must be able to rapidly mov e critical UAS information around the NAS to provide the right information to the right controller or pilot at the right time and in the desired  format  Flight Information Exchange Model \(FIXM  227 UAS flight information needs to move to and from other Air Navigation Service Providers \(ANSP\ throughout the world and new data terminology must be created that supports the collection, processing and dissemination of UAS movements through the airspace  Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions \(ATCOTS  227 UAS provides new training challenges for FAA in creating new teaching curricula that contains new procedures and paradigms used to accommodate UAS safely and efficiently in the NAS. This is notable c hallenge given 


  Paper 2581 Version 2  15  the diversity and dynamic of evolving UAS technologies and missions  Future Facilities 227 FAA real estate assets may likely be affected as new UAS related systems are development and deployed. UAS NAS integration may drive additional FAA manpow er needs for positions of operations, coordination and management. This may require additional physical footprints to accommodate new positions of operations personnel and their supporting infrastructure  Next Generation Weather Processor \(NWP\ and Weathe r and Radar Processor \(WARP  227 The removal of a pilot in the cockpit also removes the ability to \223see\224 from a traditional pilot\222s perspective. Not only does this relate to the need for electronic systems for detect and avoid \(i.e., the FAR reference 91.113 for see and avoid\ but also affects many aspects of flight safety associated with detection and avoidance of hazardous weather from visual perspective of the manned cockpit. Determination of flight visibility is one such factor. It should also be noted tha t many of the UAS flying in the NAS today have a very low tolerance to hazardous weather such as turbulence and icing  Detect and Avoid \(DAA  227  Depending upon architecture and functionality, detect and avoid for UAS could have a profound impact on a variety of FAA systems and infrastructure components. DAA can be airborne based, and affect Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS B\ In and Out and an associated Cockpit Display of Traffic Information \(CDTI\nd Traffic Alert and Collision Avoida nce System \(TCAS\ functionality, including designs for the new Next Generation Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems \(ACAS X\. GBSAA that leverages ASR 11 Surveillance Radars and Standard Terminal Automation Replacement Systems \(STARS\ or TAMR also demands automation and surveillance system modification to provide this capability. Additional future work on portable primary three dimensional \(3D\ radars integrated in the NAS will also demand close analysis  The previous overview of FAA air traffic control sys tems gives insight in the investment required to be undertaken within the F AA\222s F&E  budget It also s erve s to illustrate the pervasiveness of changes that the UAS will eventually have on air traffic control and its supporting  ATM  infrastructure   It is impo rtant to recognize these ATM/ATC changes need to be planned for, funded and deployed. It must also be recognized that these UAS related investments do not stand alone in that these changes must be done while other planned ATC system improvements are taking  place I nvestments   such as   the Surveillance Broadcast System Program  National Voice Switch, Future Cyber Security Data Communications, and others are planned under the Next Generation Air Transport System  NextGen and others  Obviously   if future UA S forecasts are to be sustained it will entail a major shift in current FAA investment in addition to the  currently planned funding of NextGen  The forecasts outlined in this paper  will require an increase in funding levels of between $500 million and $1 billion dollars per year over and above current FAA requested F&E funding levels   Doing so will greatly facilitate realization of the $30 billion per year UAS market  9   S UMMARY  From an aviation perspective, UAS represents a new and disruptive technology  challenging the staid institutions policy, procedures and technologies that exist today and have served manned aircraft well for the last fifty years or more. This UAS technology supports an incredibly wide range of uses that not only allows old challeng es to be addressed in new ways but also creates new innovative world markets for hundreds, if not thousands, of new creative applications answering the call of \223better, faster and cheaper.\224  A growing number of early adopters and innovators of aviation tech nologies are beginning to realize the significance of a growing diversity and number of UAS  This growth  is  driven by a confluence of technological developments in airframes, powerplants, sensor s command and control sys tems and information management The  economic  value  of this industry projected to be $30 billion per year supporting 300,000 American jobs by 2035   As concluded b y the study team   the realization of UAS market forecasts will be constrained  unless key investment is performed in   The NAS ATC/A TM facilities needed to be updated to support new aircraft performance and controller capabilities   Training for ATC to be ready to adopt the new unmanned aircraft performance with acceptable workload    ATC to pilot communications that have the availability  integrity confidentiality and continuity as to not heavily impact either  pilot o r  controller workload   Development of Civil standards for the c ontrol and communications data link that w ill foster low cost access for a b road  range of UAS 226  this could in clude standards of f orm, fit and function as well as covering signal in space  networked channel  access and common control exchange applications    This key investment will develop a C 3  approach to support NAS integration.  It is agreed that other areas such as of DAA are important for investment, but there are already multiple economic incentive s  following this path  


  Paper 2581 Version 2  16  R EFERENCES  1 223 Unmanned Aircraft System \(UAS\ Service Demand 2015 2 035: Literature Review and Projections of Future Usage 224  Volpe National Transportation Systems Center Cambridge MA September 2013, Version 0.1   2 AINonline, June 8, 2012, Bill Carey   3  UAV Vision Pty Ltd  2/10 Uralla Street  P ort  M acquarie  NSW 2444  Australia   4  M1 D  Thermal FLIR PTZ Camera, Sierra Pacific Corporation, Las Vegas, NV   5   Experimental Advanced Research Lidar  USGS.gov  Retrieved 8 August 2007   6  Luke Wallace  Arko Lucieer  Christopher Watson and Darren Turner 223Devel opment of a UAV LiDAR System with Application to Forest Inventory\224, Remote Sensing Volume 4 issue 6, May 25 2012 http://www.mdpi.com/2072 4292/4/6/1519  7 M ag r et t a  J o a n  223 Wh y B u s i n e s s M o d e l s M at t er  224 H ar v a r d  Business Review, pp 3 8, May 2002   B IOGRAPH IES  Chris Wargo  is a program manager and director business development for Mosaic ATM, Inc 226  a firm specializing in air traffic management systems development unmanned systems and data management systems for the aviation sector. He also leads the Autonomous  Systems Group and  served as a Chair of the System Engineering Working Group of RTCA SC 203  He has also held positions as President of Computer Network Software, Inc., Vice President and General Manager for ARINC, Inc., C3I Program Manager RC A Automated Systems and GE, as well as Systems Engineer for GTE Sylvania, Electronic Systems Group, and the US Army. In his role as a leader in aviation  next generation systems engineering, he has participated in numerous ICAO, RTCA AEEC, IEEE and IATA c ommittees and standards working groups throughout his 30 year defense and aeronautical systems career. He has presented a number of papers and chaired many industry conference sessions related to the CNS and network system programs, project and technologie s of the general, business and air transport community.   He has a BSEE from the University of Wisconsin and an MS, Systems Engineering, from the University of Southern California, and has attended the Defense Systems Management College and the Advanced Ma nagement Program at the Harvard Business Sch ool    Jason Glaneuski  is a Program Manager and Operations Research Analyst in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center \(Volpe Center\ in Cambridge, MA His  Division applies information technology and operations research disciplines to enhance the capacity, safety and security of the National Airspace System. A key component of this work is developing concepts and designing automated decision support tools a nd capabilities  that provide solutions to existing and anticipated traffic flow issues. Mr. Glaneuski has experience both performing and managing technical work in the areas of traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM and unmanned aircraft systems \(UAS\ sense and avoid SAA\, among others. Mr. Glaneuski is a graduate of Daniel Webster College in Nashua, NH, where he received his B.S in Aviation Management and Flight Operations. Prior to joining the Volpe Center in 2001, Mr. Glaneus ki worked for the FAA\222s Free Flight Program Office in Washington, D.C   Mark Strout  is an Operations Research Analyst and Project Manager in the Air Traffic Management Systems Division at the Volpe Center in Cambridge, MA. Mr. Strout provides project oversight and technical expertise attendant to several ATM related concepts and capabili ties, including traffic flow management \(TFM\, time based flow management \(TBFM\, National Airspace System Common Reference \(NCR unmanned aircraft systems and flow based trajectory management \(FBTM\. Mr. Strout is a graduate of the University of Virgini a, where he received his B.S. in Aerospace Engineering   Gary Churc h is the President of Aviation Management Associates, Inc. a Washington, DC based aviation firm established in 1984 to provide consulting services related to the Federal Aviation Administ ration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Mr. Church leads a team of two dozen aviation domain experts. He is a former air traffic controller and Manager of Air Traffic Control for the Air Transport Association \(now known as Airlines fo r America as well as an instrument rated pilot. Mr. Church has authored many air traffic control related articles and reports over the years as well participat ing  in numerous  key aviation related committees on behalf of FAA and others Mr. Church majored in Economics and Physics at the Un iversity of California Berkeley       
























































     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


