If You Build It, They Will Use: Usage Motivations and Unintended Effects of the Internet Village Motoman Project in Rural Cambodia   Sophea Chea Bloomsburg University schea@bloomu.edu Margaret Meiling Luo Yuan-Ze Univeristy luo@saturn.yzu.edu.tw Tung X. Bui University of Hawaii at Manoa tung.bui@hawaii.edu   Abstract   The adoption of community wireless has become a 
growing trend in both metropolitan and rural areas around the world. However, understanding the usage motivations and the unintended effects that those technologies have on communities is limited particularly for rural users. The purpose of this study is to explore the benefits and usage of an asynchronous wireless Internet system in a rural village of Cambodia By employing qualitative methods of indepth case analysis we revealed various usage motivations and unintended effects of the system. We derived five motivations of users to use the system avowed identity, mean to an end, maintaining personal 
ties, power influence, and psychological commitment and ownership. Unintended effects of the system were the increase in interactions among actors and other forms of system usages including; Internet commerce telemedicine, and e-government  1. Introduction  This study attempts to explore the case of an ICT adoption in the rural area of Cambodia. Cambodia is a small south-east Asian country with the population of approximately 13 millions. The telecommunication infrastructure of the country is very poor; the coverage 
is available only in the main cities and provincial towns. With the combined fixed and mobile penetration rate of only around 1.54 percent in 2003 Cambodia is one of the least connected countries in the region. The annual average per capita income of the villagers is around $40 according to the government data in 2005 In 2003, some of the most remote villagers in the country experienced the leapfrog to the Wireless Internet by using a technology called DakNet. Created 
by the First Mile Solutions, DakNet is an asynchronous wireless system that employs the existing communication infrastructure to deliver digital contents like e-mail and the Internet to the villagers 14  T h e p r oj e c t  kno wn a s  Internet Village Motoman Project was initiated by a Non Governmental Organization \(NGO\e American Assistance for Cambodia and Japan Relief for Cambodia 
AAC/JRC\ supported by the fund from private donors and the matched fund from Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. It is so named because, they use Wi-Fi equipped motorcycles as mobile access points MAPs\ to synchronize e-mails and the Internet content between the satellite dish situated at the hub or the Internet access point and the computer\(s\n the schools see figure 1 and figure 2\he persons who ride on the motorcycle are called the e-mailmen \(or motomen 
in Cambodian because moto means motorcycle Figure 1 The Motoman with Mobile Access Point MAP\wnloads and uploads the content when the motorcycle is in the Wi-Fi range  The project is considered a success because not only students and teachers in the schools use the e-mail to communicate with their peers in other places and abroad but the community leaders and villagers also 
use it to send complaints and requests to the provincial govern also u s ed to tran s f er data bet w ee n the telemedicine clinic in the district and the telemedicine partners in the U.S.A. Furthermore, the systems also serve as e-commerce infrastructure enable the villagers to sell their products including woven Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


accessories, silk clothes and shawls to everyone in the world at villageleap.com In this case the technology has been pushed to the community of villagers and highlanders from champion\(s\ in the AAC/JRC. It was intended primarily for the students and teachers in the schools that were built as part of AAC/JRC project to support their learning and teaching. However, the use of the systems expanded beyond the intended users to include other users like tribal highlanders, the government officers, the commune and village chiefs and community at large. Understand the motivations of those user situated in the remote and rural environment might help in the success of implementing similar system elsewhere. Furthermore, finding out what are the unintended effects or benefits of such system can improve the likelihood of making a convincing case for the investment in similar system to the public and the government. These are the main objectives of this study   Figure 2 a\AT at the hub as the Internet access point; b\man and mobile access point; c classroom in session; d\ rainy season another type of mobile access point was deployed    In the rest of the paper we present background and literature review, the research methodology, data analysis and results, discussion, and conclusion  2. Backgrounds and literature review  2.1. The Internet Motoman Project As noted earlier, the wireless Internet system was essentially built for teachers and students to support their teaching and learning.  Schools that involve in the Internet motoman project are located in remote provinces such as Ratanakiri and Preah Vihear and rural province like Koh Kong Take the elementary school in Koh Kong, it is an elementary school that has four public school teachers and one NGO s teacher. The NGO s teacher was not a civil servant and he taught English and computer that were not part of the public school curriculum. Since it is not part of the curriculum the English and computer lessons are enrolled on a voluntary basis The site was a hub \(Internet access point\erving another school located in a different province. A motoman is responsible for this route. There were five PCs in the schools. They are connected to the Internet via a satellite dish. The power line did not run close to that area, so they had a generator as a power source. In the evenings, teachers, students and parents took turn to guard the generator and computers  2.2. Literature review  Usage motivations  Literature pertaining to system usage is rich and well developed. Theoretical bases include the concepts of the new institutionalists [4, 17, 18 cial  constructionists [5, 6 a n d c ogni t i v e a p p r o a c h suc h a s  the technology acceptance model [3 s opp os ed to  the slim de-contextualized user that has been viewed in the traditional cognitive based IS research \(e.g. TAM the new institutionalists and social constructionists take into account the contextual factors that drive system usage. Based on theoretical lenses of new institutionalists and social constructionists; Lamb and Kling os ed th e recon ceptu alization o f us er as social actor. In their four-dimensional social actor framework, affiliations, environments, interactions and identities are foci of attention Few other theoretical approaches such as diffusion of innovation and uses and gratifications approach are also informative to understand the usage motivations For instance, diffusion of innovation research at  focus on the communication of the technological innovation to potential adopters in a social setting is one of the most notable theory that has been widely used in media studies and information system use Characteristics of innovation that influence the rate of adoption are; relative advantage, compatibility complexity, trialability, and observability of the use of new technology. Moreover, uses and gratifications is a functional approach that often used to explore why users choose certain media or technology innovations These two theoretical approaches are more appropriate for the technological innovation for individual adopter but not quite appropriate to explain the contextual rich Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


of the users of the community based wireless network that we studied We aim to understand user motivations to use the wireless Internet system. Using Lamb and Kling s framework is appropriate, because their framework takes into account the complexity of the social users Wireless Internet system usage in rural and remote area involves complex factors that the thin-user view of traditional TA m i g h t not tak e i n to accoun t. For  example, the parents of the students who involved the motoman project are enablers who help guard the hardware and encourage students to learn English and computer skills The use of the wireless Internet system involves complex motivations. Understanding these motivations will contribute greatly to the success of the system implementation and the diffusion of the Internet in rural Cambodia, given that the Internet infrastructure is yet underdeveloped.  Hence, we ask the first research question  Q1: What are the motivations of the users to use the wireless Internet system  From previous studies, we found that five users motivations were related to the community based wireless network under investigation. These five users motivations are avowed identity, mean to an end maintaining personal ties, power influence, and psychological commitment and ownership These motivations have been found related to technology use For instance, cell phone usage was driven by identity motivation. In the early stage of cell phone adoption having a cell phone represented a better social status of users Mean to an end refer to the perceived system utility that is similar to perceived usefulness in TAM In rural Cambodia, the wireless Internet system is regarded as an enabler to their future success so that they embrace and use the technology. Likewise perceived usefulness in TAM predicts system usage because of one s belief that a useful system is able to improved his/her job performance Power influence refers to what users gained from the knowledge of the system usage Maintaining social tie by using information communication technology \(ICT\ was supported Haythornthwaite s study Psychological commitment and ownership refers to the feeling of possessiveness and of being psychological tied to an object [15 th e data an al y s i s an d res u lts  s ections  w e  will discuss each of the motivations in greater detail  Unintended effects/benefits  Unintended consequences refer to the adverse social and economical effects of regulatory actions by government. The concept is used in different disciplines such as economics, social action an d technological realm [8  N e t w o r k t e c h no l o gi e s b r i n g  effects to teamwork and collaboration. The most apparent one is the intended technological effects such as faster processing, fewer error, and equal participation. Network technologies also bring unintended technological social effects such as heightened conf T h e w i reless In ter n e t s y ste m  i n  rural Cambodia was essentially adopted for assisting teaching and learning; however, it brings unintended effects and benefits to the community that uses this new technological innovation. It is important to identify these effects and benefits because they can make a stronger case for future investment in similar systems to the public and the government.  We therefore ask the second research question  Q2: What are the unintended effects/benefits of the wireless Internet system  Based on the nature of the research questions and the unit of observation \(the user group\alitative method would be the most appropriate research method for data collection. In the following section, we present research methodology of our pilot study  3. Methodology  According to Yin e s t u d y i s us ed w h e n a  researcher wants to explore contextual conditions and to examine in depth the complexity of social phenomena. This approach is particularly relevant to examination of an environment where the boundaries between the phenomenon of interest and context are not clearly evident. The research questions are explanatory by nature and the use of in-depth case studies, based on semi-structured interviews, is the most appropriate research method. Through the use of case studies it is possible to ask penetrating questions and to capture the richness of subjects social interactions and to provide better explanations of the researched phenomena than the standardized structured questionnaires We conducted a pilot study in a school in Koh Kong province. The Internet \(motoman project\as been in service for seven months when we was there We chose this site based on the availability and ease of access, the schools in other remote provinces like Ratanakiri and Preah Vihear are inaccessible by road in the rainy season Data was collected mainly through in-depth semistructured interviews with one representative from AAC/JRC, three students, one computer and English teacher, one school principal, one Motoman and a Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


student s parents. Some secondary data from the Internet Village Motoman Project case in Preah Vihea province \(Roveang\ and in Ratanakiri \(O Siengle\were also used to enrich the case. Roveang is a village in the northern part of Cambodia, it was among the first remote schools that had access to the Internet and their achievement was well publicized due to its ecommerce project. O Siengle is another village in Ratanakiri province whose case has been considered another success because of the telemedicine project  4. Data analysis and results  In this section we present the data of the pilot study with support from theoretical bases and findings in existing literature. Usage motivations and unintended effects were the focus of the analysis  3.1. Usage motivations  One of the theoretical basis used in this study is the concept of user as social actor as opposed to the slim de-contextualized user that has been viewed in the traditional cognitive based IS research. This view of user was originated from the concepts of the new institutionalists [4, 17, 18 a n d so cial co n s tru c tio n i sts   e d on th es e th eor e tical le n s es  L a m b an d  Kling os ed th e recon ceptu alization o f us er as social actor. They defined social actor as an organizational entity whose interactions are simultaneously enabled and constrained by the sociotechnical affiliations and organizational environments its members, and its industry pp. 218\They proposed a four-dimension social actor framework which is comprised of: affiliations, environments interactions, and identities. Taking into account the complexity of the social users we strive to understand the motivations of the Internet Village Motoman users in using the system. For example the parents were not the users of the system that we visited, however, they are enabler. They helped to guard the hardware at night and encourage their kids to take the computer and English lessons. The thin-user view of traditional technology adoption m m i gh t n o t ta k e the  parents into account Diffusion of innovation research o cu s on the  communication of the technological innovation to potential adopters in a social setting. Characteristics of innovation that influence the rate of adoption are relative advantage, compatibility, complexity trialability, and observability of the use of the technology. This theoretical view is more appropriate for the adoption of technological innovation by individual but not quite appropriate to explain the contextual rich of the users of the community based wireless network that we studied From the interview data we derived five motivations of the users to use the system; avowed identity, mean to an end, maintaining personal ties power influence, and psychological commitment and ownership. The following sections will describe the five motivations in detail  Avowed identity  A Student with the support of his parents switches school because he wants to learn computer and English lessons My parents encourage me to learn computer because it is good for my future my parents said that if you don t learn English and computer you will have to do the labor job This was a kind of avowed identity [9 at th e st u d en t an d h i s p a ren t s w a n t to  present to others because being able to speak English show that he is in a better position to seek job than other students, therefore a higher status in the society This concept is similar to the observability \(result demonstrability\ of the diffusion of innovation research  A mean to an end  Some students used the technology, because they want to study English and computer skills for their future job hunting even they are not mandated by the organization \(ministry of education I learn computer and the Internet because I will be able to find a job with these skills In this case the system usage is just a mean toward an end. It is the perceived utility of the system similar to the construct of perceived usefulness of TA h en  s t u d e n t s s ee tec h n o logy as a n  enabler to their future success they embrace it and learnt to use the technology although it is not required for their graduation. This motivation is a step further from the avowed identity, because it is based on intrinsic motivation while using technology as an identity statement is more an extrinsic motivation  Maintaining personal ties  One student wanted to learn e-mail because she likes to communicate with her previous English teacher. Similarly, the school principal wanted to learn to use e-mail because he needs to communicate with his relatives in the United States. Two other students that we interviewed had no interest in learning e-mail because they don t know to whom they can write. They use the Internet to listen to music. The principal also wanted to learn e-mail to communicate with his relatives in the United States. The strength of ties Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


among actors determines the motivation to use the system. This finding is supported by the finding of Haythornthwa w h o s t ated th at w h en th e ties  among actors are strong the addition of a new mean of communication supports the needs and tasks of the pair better than when the tie is weak  Power and influence  Power and influence are rather an inhibitor than a motivator of system usage. In our case it was not a kind of direct power that was mentioned in Markus  study, but it was the power and influence gained from the knowledge of the system usage. There were two types of teachers; those who work for NGO and those who are public servants. Teachers in public schools have no access to the technology. The principal put it We want to learn computer but it is complicated to turn the computer on we need to turn generator on, the gas is expensive and the NGO s teacher have no time for us The manifestation of the power and influence by the government on the usage behavior of public school teacher is another example of how power and influence determine usage behavior. Politics were not allowed to be discussed in the school. Although the public school teachers use The Internet mainly for news that is political in nature, they don t talk about the news to their peers. One teacher said since the politics are always a sticky issue, we don t talk about them that much we access the Internet mainly for news However, when students find an interesting music site they share with their peers  Psychological commitment and ownership  Due to the lack of power source the system was relied on the solar power and the diesel generator. The computers and those equipments need to be safeguarded especially at night. Teachers, students and parents took turn to guard the generator and computers every night. This sense of community is rarely manifested in metropolitan area. This commitment by user and non-users enable an uninterrupted functioning of the system Nicholas Negroponte, the director of MIT Media Lab who witnessed the use of computer by the kids in the school that he donated money to build noted that when the computer was given to student to keep at home they take care of the computer as if it was a precious object and the whole family cherishes the laptop [1 T h is beh a v i or can be ex plain e d w i t h t h e  concept of psychological ownership The core of psychological ownership is the feeling of possessiveness and of being psychological tied to an object 15 o m m i t m e n t a nd ow n e rsh i p are diff eren t  Psychological ownership answers the question What do I feel is mine whereas commitment answers the question Should I maintain my membership in this organization and why because I ought to, I need to and/or because I want to  n e rs hip i m plie s the right to control while commitment implies responsibilities  3.2. Unintended effects  The concept of unintended consequences is often referred to the adverse social and economical effects of regulatory actions by government. However, Adam Smith s invisible hand the most famous metaphor in economics, is an example of a positive unintended consequence of individual seeking his/her own gain Merton tlin ed f i v e sou r ces of  un i n ten ded  consequences of purposive social action. They are lack of knowledge, human error, imperious immediacy of interest, basic values, and self-defeating prediction In technological realm, Kies erv e d th ree  types of effects of a network technology intended technological effects faster processing, fewer errors more equal participation unintended social effects  heightened conflict\d transient effects effects that will diminish with group experience with the system\n our case the intended technological effects were better learning for students and teachers Unintended social effects that we observed in this study were the increase in interactions among actors and other forms of technological usages including: the Internet commerce, telemedicine, and e-government We might be able to observed some transient effects in the site in which the system has been implemented longer like in Ratanakiri or Preah Vihea  Increase interactions  The use of the system increased the interactions among actors. The most successful unintended link is that between the handicraft and the Internet. Another important unintended link was between the clinic and the medical doctor in Boston, the U.S.A. This link enables the doctor in Boston to diagnose the disease of villagers that cannot be diagnosed by the clinic staff or the doctor in the city. However, in the site that we visited some intended interactions were not realized The computer mediated links between the public teachers and NGO teachers and between the public teachers and the students were not realized due to the time and resource constraints  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 Figure 3 Intended and Unintended Interactions    Internet commerce  This link was not previously intended but was made possible by a very strong and personal support from Bernard Krisher the director of the AAC/JRC. The system enables villagers from the province of Preah Vihea to sell their silk handicraft to the world via the Internet. Main customers are from the U.S.A and Japan. The villageleap.com checkout page is cable of processing credit card transaction in English or Japanese. The system is connected to the transaction processing system of the business of a Japanese entrepreneur whom Mr. Krisher knows personally  Telemedicine  The one-staff clinic in the Village O Siengle of Ratanakiri province used the system to diagnose patience having mild health problem with the help of the doctors in the provincial hospital. For patience with serious illness the staff arranges the transportation to the provincial hospital where more advanced test and diagnostics are performed. For hard-to-diagnose diseases the doctors in the provincial hospital can send photographs of patients, X-rays, ultrasounds, and electrocardiograms to specialists in Boston at Partners Telemedicine. Doctors from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School then review the files and send diagnoses, all pro bono [2   E-government  Although it was not intended, a crude form of egovernment was taking shape with the introduction of the system in O Siengle village. In one meeting of the villagers, they were debating how to send their first email message to the governor I think we should send a message to the governor asking for land titles a village v i l l ag e c h ief  w a s reported u s i n g e mail to send his report to his superior in the provincial government according a local press  5. Discussion  5.1. Key findings  From available data we determined five motivations of users to use the system; 1\ system was used as avowed identity statement, 2\ystems usage is a mean to achieve a greater end, 3\ystem usage to maintain personal ties with friends and colleagues, 4 systems usage was limited by power and influence, and 5\ystem usage is enable by the psychological commitment and ownership of non users and users Unintended social and economical effects of community wireless system were; 1\e increase in interactions among actors, 2\ Internet commerce, 3 telemedicine, and 4\government. However, it is to note that all those unintended effects might not have been realized without a strong champion. A great deal of efforts from champion of the system like Mr Krisher and MIT Media Lab were the drivers behind all those effects The pilot study is an exploratory effort to better understand the Internet usage motivations and unintended effects that come alone with the Internet technology. Theoretical contribution of this paper is that Lamb and Kling  r a m e w ork i s adopt ed i n a  non-organization setting. We found that their framework is an appropriate approach to observe actors interaction, environment, and affiliations Under this framework we identify the usage motivations that are richer than those posited in the cognitive theory of adoption which is often found to be significant drivers of system usage in organizational settings For practice, the results of this study shed light on the actor s roles \(students, teachers, government officers\ in the wireless Internet system. The motivations identified in our study suggested that users in rural Cambodia are driven by very different needs from those users in developing and developed countries where Internet infrastructure is mostly well established. Fulfilling these needs will contribute to a successful implementation of a new Internet projects in other rural areas and ultimately help close the digital divide. Identifying the unintended effects contributes to the future success of system implementation as well We figure out the use of the Internet as tools for more interaction, e-commerce, telemedicine, and egovernment. For best interest of users, government and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


NGOs may allocate more resources in these aspects so that users can be benefited fully by the power of the Internet technology  5.2. Limitations  We must clarify the limitation of the site that we selected. Since it was a new site \(only seven months of introduction to the Internet\he students and all public school teachers didn t know how to use e-mail and the Internet yet. That was probably one reason of limited interactions among actors. Another reason is the existence of alternative technology \(e.g. cell phone communication network, and radio communication The site is on the major highway linking the province of Koh Kong to the capital city. More interaction among users might be found in a site without alternative forms of communication to the outside world  5.3. Future study  Encouraging by the results of the pilot study, we propose to conduct another study in the province of Ratanakiri during the summer of 2009. We will use a case study method by employing both face-to-face in depth interview and phone interview as means of data collection. We will also examine some forms and written correspondence between the ac T h e participants of the study will be the villagers, students teachers, government officers, community leaders telemedicine clinic staffs, and the champion\(s\ the Internet Village Motoman Project We narrow the scope to the northeastern province of Cambodia named Rattanakiri. The is composed of fifteen solar-powered village schools, a telemedicine clinics, and the governor s office in Ban Lung , the provincial capital city of Ratanakiri, five Honda motorcycles equipped with mobile access points and a satellite uplink. Each of the schools can send and receive email and browse the Internet using a non-realtime search engine. We limit the case to one Internet access point in Ban Lung, three schools, one telemedicine clinic and the orphanage center AAC/JRC\in the capital city who supplies the English and computer teachers to the schools We expect to fully understand the usage motivations of ICT of students, villagers, teachers and clinic staff in this rural setting. We also expect a better understanding of the unintended benefits of the use of Wireless Internet system because, in Ratanakiri the projects is more complete in the sense that not only students and teachers use the systems but community leaders, staffs in the telemedicine clinic and entrepreneurs also use the systems. Furthermore, they have limited means of communication; the only alternative mean of communication to outside world is through radio. By conducting research in a different site, the limitation of this currently study will be managed. Since the province of Koh Kong has started the Internet project for less than one year and users have multiple ways to communicate with each other the interaction among the users cannot be observed We hope that the limitation can be fully managed in the future study in Ratnakiri  6. Conclusion This study explores the wireless Internet project known as Internet Village Motoman Project that was initiated by a Non Governmental Organization \(NGO with the support of the fund from private donors and the matched fund from Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. We investigate usage motivations and unintended effects of the wireless Internet system in Koh Kong province. Data was collected by using  indepth semi-structured interviews with one representative from AAC/JRC, three students, one computer and English teacher, one school principal one Motoman and a student s parents. Some secondary data from the Internet Village Motoman Project case in Preah Vihea province \(Roveang\ and in Ratanakiri \(O Siengle\were also used to enrich the case. We found five usage motivations related to Internet use: avowed identity, a mean to an end, maintaining personal ties power influence, and psychological commitment and ownership. Unintended effects emerged from the Internet system use are the increase in interactions among actors, Internet commerce, telemedicine, and egovernment. A future study will be conducted to have more understanding in other rural Cambodia areas to attest our current theoretical findings and hopefully to contribute our findings to practice   7. References  1  I. Benbasat, D. K. Goldstein, et al The case research strategy in studies of information systems In M. D. Myers and D. Avison. \(Eds.\litative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, Thousand Oaks, New Delhi, 2002 pp. 79-99  2  J. Brooke E-mail on wheel: Rural Cambodia, though far off the grid, is finding its way online New York Times January 26, 2004    3  Davis, F. D Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user acceptance of information technology MIS Quarterly, \(13:3\1989, pp. 319-339  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


4  DiMaggio, P. J. and Powell, W. W. Introduction, in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, Powell, W W. and DiMaggio, P. J. \(eds.\niversity of Chicago Press Chicago 1991  5  Giddens, A., The Constitution of Society, Polity Press Cambridge, England, 1984  6  Goffman, E. Frame Analysis, Harvard University Press Cambridge, MA. 1974  7  Haythornthwaite, C Strong, Weak, and Latent Ties and the Impact of New Media The Information Society 2002, 18, pp. 385-401  8  Kiesler, S, "The Hidden Messages in Computer Networks," Harvard Business Review \(64:1\ JanuaryFebruary 1986, pp. 46-60  9  Lamb, R. and Kling, R Reconceptualization Users as Social Actors in Information Systems Research MIS Quarterly, \(27:2\2003, pp. 197-235  10  Markus, M. L Power, Politics, and MIS Implementation Communication of the ACM, \(26:6\1983 pp. 430-444    11  Nicholas P. Negroponte, The Hundred Dollar LaptopComputing for Developing Nations, in MIT World, available at: http://mitworld.mit.edu/slashdot.html  12  R.K. Merton The Unanticipated Consequences of Purposive Social Action American Sociological Review 1:6\ Dec. 1936, pp. 894-904  13  A.P. Pabico Technology-CAMBODIA: Ingenious Efforts Widen Road to Information 2004. South-east Asian Press Alliance  14  Pentland, A. and R. Fletcher DakNet: Rethinking Connectivity in Developing Nations Computer \(37:1 2004, pp. 78-83  15  J.L. Pierce, T. Kostova, and K.T. Dirks Toward a theory of psychological ownership in organizations  Academy of Management Review, \(26:2\2001, pp. 298-310    16  Rogers, E. M. Diffusion of innovations \(5th ed.\ew York: Free Press, 2003  17  Scott, W. R., Organizations: Rational, Natural, and Open Systems, Second Edition, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1987  18  Scott, W. R. Institutions and Organizations, Sage Publication, Thousand Oaks, CA  1995  19  T. F. Stafford, M. R. Stafford, and L .L. Schkade Determining uses and gratifications for the Internet  Decision Sciences, \(35:2\ 2004, pp. 259-288  20  Yin, R. Case Study Research, 2nd edition, Sage Publications, Newbury Park, 1994    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


12  E. Kalnay Atmospheric Modeling, Data Assimilation and Predictability Cambridge University Press Cambridge, 136-204, 2003  13  R. Daley Atmospheric Data Assimilation Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 457 pp., 1991  14  J.E. Hoke, and R.A. Anthes, \223The Initialization of Numerical Models by a Dynamic Initialization Technique,\224 Mon. Wea. Rev  104 1551-1556, 1976  15  D.R. Stauffer, and N.L. Seaman, \223Multiscale FourDimensional Data Assimilation,\224 J. Appl. Meteor  33  416-434, 1993  9  16  P. Robins, Rapley, V., Thomas, P., \223A Probabilistic Chemical Sensor Model for Data Fusion,\224 Dstl Salisbury, UK, 2005  17  K.J. Long Improving Contaminant Source Characterization and Meteorological Data Forcing with a Genetic Algorithm M.S. Thesis, Dept. of Meteorology, The Pennsylvania State University, 55 pp 2007    C.E. Shannon, \223A m a t h em at i cal t h eory of communication,\224 Bell System Technical Journal  27  379-423 and 623-656, 1948  B IOGRAPHIES  Sue Ellen Haupt is Head of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics at the Applied Research Laboratory of The Pennsylvania State University and Associate Professor of Meteorology. She received her Ph.D. in Atmospheric Science from the University of Michigan, M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute and B.S. in Meteorology from Penn State. In addition to PSU, she has been at New England Electric System, the National Center for Atmospheric Research, University of Colorado/Boulder University of Nevada, Reno, and Utah State University. Dr Haupt co-chaired the IEEE Ae rospace Conference Junior Conference for six years George S. Young is Professor of Meteorology at The Pennsylvania State University specializing in artificial intelligence applications to weather prediction and observational studies atmospheric flow structures.  He has served on the faculty of the Pennsylvania State University since receiving his Ph.D. in Atmospheric Sciences from Colorado State University in 1986.  He also holds B.S and M.S. degrees in Meteorology from Florida State University.  He has published 1 book, 3 book chapters 74 journal papers and 99 conference papers as well as advised 33 graduate students.  He chaired the National Science Foundation / University Corporation for Atmospheric Research observing Facilities Advisory Panel in 2000 and has been a member of the American Meteorological Society's committees on Mountain Meteorology \(1992-1995\ and Boundary Layers and Turbulence \(1999-2002 Kerrie J. Long is a Research Assistant in the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics of the Applied Research Laboratory at Penn State. She has worked on atmospheric dispersion problems particularly source characterization using artificial intelligence techniques. She earned a B.S. in Physics from the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth and M.S. in Meteorology from Penn State Anke Beyer-Lout is a graduate student in the Department of Meteorology at the Pennsylvania State University. She graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Meteorology from the University of Hamburg in Germany in August 2005 and came to Penn State in January 2006. Anke is currently working with George S Young and Sue Ellen Haupt on a project concerning data assimilation and dispersion modeling. She expects to graduate with a M.S. in Meteorology in December 2007  Andrew Annunzio is a meteorology graduate student at the Pennsylvania State University.  He graduated from the Ohio State University in 2006 with honors and distinction in Geography and minored in Mathematics.  Andrew began studies at Penn State in Fall 2006, and is now in pursuit of his masters under Sue Ellen Haupt and George Young.  After obtaining the M.S. in May 2008, he wishes to pursue a Ph.D. in Meteorology with a minor in Mathematics 


13 P Embrechts C Kluppelberg and T Mikosch Modelling Extremal Events Springer-Verlag Berlin 1997 14 L Tarassenko P.R Bannister and D A Clifton Novelty Detection in K Worden ed Encylopaedia of Structural Health Monitoring Wiley 2008 15 D.A Clifton Density Estimation for Novelty Detection in Jet Engine Vibration Data Technical Report Oxford BioSignals Ltd UK 2006 16 R.L Smith Extreme Value Analysis of Environmental Time Series Statistical Science 4\(4 pp.367-377 1989 17 S.J Roberts Novelty Detection Using Extreme Value Statistics IEE Proceedings 146\(3 1999 18 S.J Roberts Extreme Value Statistics for Novelty Detection in BiomedicaDataprocessing IEE Proceedings on Science Measurement and Technology 147\(6 2000 19 A R Webb Statistical Pattern Recognition Wiley 2002 20 S.G Coles and E A Powell Bayesian Methods in Extreme Value Modelling A Review and New Developments International Statistical Review  Revue Intemationale de Statistique Vol 64 No 1 pp 119-136 1996 21 D.A Clifton P.R Bannister and L Tarassenko A Framework for Novelty Detection in Jet Engine Vibration Data in L Garibaldi S Surace K Holford eds Key Engineering Materials 347:305-312 2007 22 D.A Clifton B Haskins P.R Bannister and L Tarassenko Specific and Generic Models for GasTurbine Novelty Detection Proc of 4th IET Int Conf on Condition Monitoring Harrogate UK 2007 23 S.W Utete D.A Clifton and L Tarassenko Trending Performance Parameters for Aircraft Condition Monitoring Proc of 4th IET Int Conf on Condition Monitoring Harrogate UK 2007 BIOGRAPHY David A Clifton is a DPhil candidate in Engineering Science at Oxford University and Senior Engineer at university spin-out company Oxford BioSignals Ltd His research interests include statistical pattern recognition for health monitoring of biomedical and industrial systems for which he has been the awarded many of the UK's leading student engineering awards including those from the IEE the Institute of Physics the Royal Academy of Engineering the European Commission Hewlett-Packard Europe Shell UK and the UK Engineering Council His current research part-funded by the UK Department of Trade and Industry involves devising novelty detection systems for modern civil and military aircraft engines including the Eurofighter EJ200 the Airbus A380 Trent 900 and the Boeing Dreamliner Trent 1000 Nick McGrogan is Technical Manager for the Industrial division of Oxford BioSignals Ltd He holds an M.Sc degree in Engineering and Computing Science and a D.Phil degree in Engineering Science both from Oxford University He is also a member of the Institution of e ngineering and Technology JET His D.Phil research was in the area of advanced signal processing for the detection of epileptic seizures in long-term recordings of brain activity While completing his D.Phil degree he joined Oxford BioSignals when the company was founded to progress the development of medical signal processing products and progressed to leading the industrial division in the development of techniques for health monitoring of aircraft engines In his current role he is responsible for Oxford BioSignal's technology strategy and manages the company's research projects Lionel Tarassenko Lionel Tarassenko was born in Paris France in 1957 He received the B.A degree in engineering science in 19 78 and the Ph D degree in medical engineering in 1985 both from Oxford University Oxford U.K After graduating he worked for Racal Research Ltd on the development of digital signal processing techniques principally for speech coding He then held a number of positions in academia and industry before taking up a University Lecturership at Oxford in 1988 Since then he has devoted most of his research effort to the development of neural network techniques and their application to signal processing diagnostic systems andparallel architectures He has held the Chair in Electrical Engineering at Oxford University since October 1997 He was elected to a Fellowship of the Institution of Electrical Engineers IEE in 1996 when he was also awarded the IEE Mather Premium for his work on neural networks and to a Fellowship of the Royal Academy of Engineering RAE in 2000 10 


Dennis M King is the RollsRoyce PLC Company specialist in Engine Health Monitoring specialising in the vibration aspects of EHM He was awarded an MSc in Engineering Mechanics in 1976 by the Cranfield Institute of Technology UK and Chartered Engineer in 1988 RAeS After graduating he joined RollsRoyce in Derby working in Stress analysis and design before moving to the vibration laboratories and taking on the role of consulting on the design build and balance of aero engines Over the last twenty years he has been actively involved in developing EHM technology including Hardware software fault recognition and diagnostics He has the experience of applying this technology globally within the R-R business He has been awarded the R-R Component Engineering Quality award 1997 R-R Chairman's team awardfor technical innovation 2001 a member of the Institute for Engineering Technology IET Having worked in Rolls-Royce since 1979 he has built up many years experience working in advanced signal processing methods Data Mining Neural Networks and equipment health monitoring Steve's current post is within the Company's Global EHM Capability Group Prior to this he spent 12 years working in the Company's Corporate Strategic Research Centre with responsibility for the development and application of Computational Intelligence techniques across all business areas of Rolls-Royce He was awarded the Rolls-Royce Chairman's awardfor Technical Innovation in 2001 and is named on three patents He is also a member of the International Scientific Committee of the International Conference for Condition Monitoring Paul Anuzis has spent five years of his working career at Rolls-Royce in Germany helping to establish a new and highly sucessful RollsRoyce business unit in Germany based initially in Munich now established in Dahlewitz on the outskirts of Berlin Paul returned in late 1997 to take up his current position of Chief Reliability Engineer for Rolls-Royce Civil Aerospace Airlines He holds a degree in Physics and second degree in Electronics is a Chartered Physicists Chartered Scientist Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Institute of Physics and has twice won the Rolls-Royce Chairman's awardfor Technical Innovation He has extensive applied research experience from several years of runing DTI technology programs The most sucessful programs spanning eight years working with the Universities of Oxford Nottingham and Cranfield on engine health monitoring technologies which are about to enter service with the latest Trent 900/A380 application Steve P.King is a Specialist for advanced Engine H ealth Monitoring Method at Rolls-Royce plc He holds a degree in Mathematics and Computer Science and a PhD in the use of Expert Systems fo r Vibration Analysis He is a Chartered Engineer and 11 


  12  Figure 1:  Lunar South Pole Elevation Map from GSSR 2006 Digital Elevation Model  Figure 2:  Lunar North Pole Elevation Ma p from GSSR 1997 Digital Elevation Model 


  13  Figure 3:  Shackleton Crater T opographic Map, with Base Sites  Figure 4: Solar Lines-of-Si ght at Lunar South Pole 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


