The State of IT Governance in Organizations from the Public Sector in a Developing Country  Edephonce N. Nfuka Stockholm University  nfuka@dsv.su.se  Lazar Rusu Stockholm University  lrusu@dsv.su.se  Paul Johannesson   Stockholm University  pajo@dsv.su.se  Beda Mutagahywa University of Dar es Salaam bmutag@udsm.ac.tz   
Abstract  Today in many organizations in the public sector, the use of IT has become crucial in sustaining and extending the organizationsê st rategies and objectives This pervasive use of technology has caused a critical dependency on IT that calls for specific focus on the IT Governance. This paper discusses the current state of IT Governance practices in five public sector organizations from a developing country, like is Tanzania. The results of this research approach are looking into the IT Governance mechanisms in place in terms of structures, processes and relational mechanisms. Moreover the paper includes a discussion on the problems and consequences inherent to inhibitors of effective IT Governance for a further improvement of the public service delivery in this 
environment   1. Introduction Many organizations today rely on Information and Communication Technology \(ICT\d continue to make significant IT-enabled business investments [1   Public sector organizations are among them. This is due to, among other things, the constantly increasing demand for more efficient and cost-effective services for citizens, businesses and also among public organizations themselves and the continuing effort to embrace e-governmen  rth e r m ore th is  h a s  led to pervasiveness and dependency on IT in the 
current dynamic and often turbulent multiservice provision environments, where effective management of IT and its alignment with business goals is essential for the success The prudent management of such IT environment calls for IT Governance, which is the organizational capacity to plan and control the formulation and implementation of IT strategy to ensure fusion of business and IT am ple, th e MIT  C I SR s t u d y  on IT Governance related issues indicated that there is a 20% better return on IT-enabled business investments when effective IT Governance is in  
A need for effective IT Governance is also becoming essential in the public sector in developing countries, in which various adjustments of regulatory and commercial policies, both macroeconomic and within ICT s converging sector have been made and where the public sector organizations in particular experienced dramatic changes in the use of ICT  Today, there is general use of the computers, specific business applications and a variety of IT organizations in most of them. However, like in many developing nations these developments are coupled with a variety of fragmented IT initiatives and relatively lower IT 
deployment, management, literacy, culture and resources    Therefore this paper describes the state of IT Governance based on the results of ongoing research in five public sector organizations in Tanzania. Mainly it analyzes two important aspects. The first aspect assesses the current state of IT Governance mainly regarding the mechanisms in us d h o w th es e are  contributing to a better Governance of IT in the public sector in Tanzania. Moreover the analysis considers the practices along IT Governance key focus areas and key decision d l y t h e res e arc h addres s e s  IT Governance related problems and the potential 
consequences in the studied organizations  2. The studied organizations from the public sector in Tanzania In order to understand the IT Governance practices in the pubic sector, five organizations were selected. This was based on the level of IT deployment in the organizations and the multiplier effect in the services provided to the public and related organizations. By virtue of being public sector and in a developing country, the way they establish, use and manage ICT represents fairly the state of IT Governance in other organizations of similar set-up and environment. These 
organizations are the Tanzania Revenue Authority TRA\tores Department \(MSD\rime Minister s Office - Regional Administration and Local Government \(PMO-RALG\President s Office, Public Services Management \(PO-PSM\ and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs \(MoFEA Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


TRA \(A is an authority liable for administration of central government revenues. Through its 1 st 2 nd and now 3 rd corporate strategic plans, various initiatives including IT have been implemented towards more efficient and cost-effective revenue collection. For example, while in 2003/04 about US$1.4 billion was collected by close to 3,457 employees, 46 being IT staff, in the last financial year, 2007/08, TRA expected to exceed the planned budget of about US$3.3 billion by almost the same number of employees. Also the authority has an organization-wide operating budget estimated at US$115m with IT using US$1.3m Computerization has been undertaken and a number of systems are in place such as Integrated Income Tax IS ITAX\d Customs Management IS \(ASYCUDA Most of the staff have undergone IT literacy courses and have computers that are also connected to the corporate network and the Intern    MSD \(B is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare with the objective to develop, maintain and manage an efficient and cost-effective system of procurement, storage and distribution of approved essential drugs and other medical supplies required for use across the country. It has a country-wide distribution network with 9 zones and serves a customer base of about 4,000 health facilities in different programmes. Also it serves district, regional, specialized and referral hospitals Through its corporate strategic plan and an expanding infrastructure, MSD services have raised from about US$14m in 1998 to US$100m in the 2006/07 financial year. It is managed by over 350 employees, 9 of them being IT staff.  Computerization has been undertaken mainly with ORION system that manages procurement, storage and distribution of medical supplies and recently the Integrated Logistics System ILS\ that manages varied health supplies using a single set of procedures. Also many staff have attended IT literacy courses and most have PCs that are also connected to the corporate network  PMO-RALG \(C is the Ministry with a mandate to coordinate regional and local government affairs Through its strategic plans and the Local Government Reform Programme \(LGRP\, the Ministry has been improving its coordinating functions where 21 Regional Secretariats \(RSs\have been enabled and 133 Local Government Authorities \(LGAs\mpowered to provide public services in their localities. Currently the Ministry is supported by 250 staff, six of whom are IT staff. Additionally, there is one IT staff at each of the 21 RSs who also provides assistance to the LGAs in the area. Computerization has been undertaken and the main systems in place include the Integrated Financial Management Information System \(IFMIS Planning and Reporting \(PlanRep\, Local Government Monitoring Database \(LGMD\d LGAs ByLaws Database. A number of staff have computers but there is still a notable demand which gets greater down the ministry hierarchy, RSs and LGAs. A number of staff especially in the Ministry itself, have undergone IT literacy courses and most of them have PCs connected to the corporate network. However, there are relatively IT access difficulties at RSs and LGAs lev  PO-PSM \(D is a Ministry under the President's Office in charge of public service management, to ensure that Public Service is effectively and efficiently managed through improved human resources management, systems and structures. Through various strategic plans, the Ministry has put in place a Human Capital Management Information Systems \(HCMIS that manages all government employees, currently about 400,000. The Ministry also facilitates the Public Service Reform Programme \(PSRP\ that has empowered Ministries, Departments and Agencies MDAs\ various aspects of public service delivery improvement, including putting in place several ICT facilities, applications, Strategic Plans \(ISSP\d capacity building. Currently, the Ministry has a budget of about US$ 35.7m, with 2.85m for IT \(8%\d supported by 300 staff, 15 of whom are IT staff MoFEA \(E is the ministry responsible for managing government revenue, expenditure and financing and provides advice on the broad financial and economic affairs in support of the government s economic and social objectives. Through its strategic plans and the Public Financial Management Reform Programme \(PFMRP\mong other achievements, it has introduced several IS to facilitate its role. These include the IFMIS that manages the budget and expenditure and is rolled-out countrywide. Together with PO-PSM, the said Ministry has established the HCMIS that runs the payroll for government employees. Currently, the Ministry is supported by 1,200 staff, 100 of whom are IT staff    3. Research Methodology In order to describe, understand and explain the IT Governance practices in the public sector and uncover problems and consequences in this environment, a qualitative research methodology a s u s ed. T h is was mainly done through a case study research methodology u ch appr oach  w a s n ecess a r y to be able to carry out a holistic an d in-depth investigation of the problem, and get the required details from the viewpoint of the participants, using multiple sources of data [2 l s o a m u lti cas e approach w a s n eces s a r y  due to the existence of several similarly patterned organizations in the public sector and a need to strengthen the results by replicating the patternmatching, thus increasing confidence in the robustness of the outputs \(17\onsequently, five cases were Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


Fi g ure 1 Nine top most IT Governance context/drivers in the studied or ganizations from the public sector Fi g ure 2 The necessary elements of an IT Governance framework [9 selected to meet these needs as were described earlier The collection of the data was carried out by conducting face to face in-depth interviews and through structured questionnaires. This process was undertaken between December 2007 and June 2008 with both IT and business representatives from five organizations from the public sector in Tanzania. In these organizations IT representatives included IT directors and managers, while business representatives included core and support services directors and managers as well as Chief Executives Officers \(CEOs and board members where applicable. Based on the IT Governance framework [9  k e y f o cu s a r e a s  1 0   k e y  decisions d IT Gov e rn an ce A s s e s s m e n t P r oces s Model [18 f i v e i n terv i e w qu e s tio n n aire s  w e re  developed; two for IT peoples \(CIO and the rest\nd three for business peoples \(directors/managers, CEOs and Board members \(BM\he distribution of the respondents is shown in Table 1 Also in each organization as part of our study, other data were collected including organizations brochures strategic and action plans, policies, reports presentations, and so forth. These data were mainly obtained from the Chief Information Officer \(CIO known as Director of IT, IS, MIS or IT services Table 1 Distribution of the respondents Respondents\\Organiz ations A B C D E Total IT Management 8 5 5 6 7 31 Business Management including  C EO & BM  6 6 6 5 6 29 Total 14 11 11 11 13 60  The data captured through questionnaires were analyzed using the software applications i.e. SPSS and Microsoft Excel. Furthermore, triangulation was done to incorporate data gathered through interviews and documents in this analysis, which was again validated in the studied organizations. This has led to the output of this research work i.e. IT Governance practices problems and consequences in the studied organizations from the public sector in Tanzania  4. The state of IT Governance practices In this section the study findings are presented briefly First, the context of the IT Governance related practices are highlighted \(Fig. 1\econdly, IT Governance mechanisms are covered \(Fig. 2\d finally, a summary & discussion on the IT Governance practices is presented The context of IT Governance in the sector is as indicated in Fig.1, with quality of service and customer satisfaction, strategic alignment/partnership between IT and business, and organizational performance on top certainly due to the nature of the sector. Other contexts are inherent in the ministries or agencies specific roles such as the case of TRA with its vision to be a modernized tax administration; where well-governed IT seemed to be a key integrator for the efficient realization of higher revenue collection and PMORALG where IT is necessary for a good governance and efficient coordination and information management between LGAs, RSs and MDAs Moreover the IT Governance can be implemented using a combination of elements \(Fig. 3\d the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


Fi g ure 3 TRA IS Steering Committee \(ISSC practice found in the sector is described in terms of structures, processes and relational mechanisms  4.1.   IT Governance Structures One of the main determinants for effective IT Governance is how the IT function is organized in an organization. Furthermore structures involve the organization and location of the IT function that clearly defines the roles and responsibilities of a diversity of IT/business committees th e su rv e y  w e h a v e  done in the public sector in Tanzania, the organizations were found to be practising a number of them as are shown in each individual case  4.1.1. TRA  The decision-making structure is organized around four core departments headed by Commissioners and seven support departments including IT, all headed by Directors At the top level it is managed by the Commissioner General \(CG\under the supervision and control of Board of Directors. The IT department is at the same level as other departments, headed by the Director of ICT and reports to the CG. The head is also part of the executive management and attends the Board While there is no IT strategy committee, the IT function is supported by the IT steering committee called the Information Systems Steering Committee ISSC\meets quarterly and members are both from IT and Business departments \(Fig. 3\erally, it oversees the IS investment and specifically it provides strategic leadership for IS operations in the Authority Also the authority has several committees at project level to oversee the project activities. These also include IT and business people that increase the partnership and acceptability T h e com m i ttees at  this level are chaired by the Commissioner or Director of the business department concerned. At the lower levels there are implementations and technical teams all comprising IT and business people. An example of the project committees is the Drivers Licences System DLS\mmittee that oversees the processing and issuing of drivers licences in the country The IT structure indicated to be in place, among others, has increased greatly the strategic alignment between IT and business a s als o redu ced s o m e  duplication of the efforts and resources, and increased the awareness and ownership of IT enabled projects by taking onboard the business people which further increased the partnership and IT contribution to the organizational goals  4.1.2. MSD  The decision making structure is organized in function of three core and two support directorates including IT, all headed by Directors. At top level it is managed by Director General \(DG\ under supervision and control of a Board of Trustees. As indicated here, the IT Directorate is at the same level as other directorates. It is headed by Director of IS and reports to DG. Also the head is part of the executive management and attends the Board While there is neither IT strategy nor IT steering committees, IT functions are supported by several other committees. An example is the Information Security Committee that oversees security related policies and procedures, chaired by the Chief Internal Auditor with members from IT and Business departments. Others are project-based committees. For example at the moment there are Bar-Code and Integrated Logistic System \(ILS\rojects committees Both of them oversee the relevant projects conceptualization and implementations, and are chaired by the directorates of the processes concerned and have proved useful  4.1.3. PMO-RALG  The decision-making structure of the Ministry is organized around eight divisions including IT division, headed by a Director. At the top level the Ministry is led by the Minister and managed by the Permanent Secretary \(PS\s indicated here, IT division is at the same level as other divisions. It is headed by the Director of MIS, who reports to the PS and who is also part of the executive management While there is no IT steering committee at the Ministry level, recently they have proposed the high level ICT Steering committee to cut across the ministries that are heavily interacting with the LGAs through IT applications indicated earlier, thus likely to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Fi g ure 4 Governance of ICT based Projects an exam ple of HCMIS Pro j ect Committee, PO-PSM minimize duplication of efforts while optimizing IT resources. Again IT function is supported by other committees like IT specialists Working Group \(ITWG that comprises of IT specialists from all 21 regional secretariats \(RSs\ the country, and IT and business people from the ministry. It is mandated to develop standards and oversee their implementation in their respective areas. Observation shows that with these setups in place, governance is getting better and certainly duplication of efforts will slowly decrease especially if higher levels and business people in the ministry, RSs and LGAs continuously get feedback and kept engaged in the process   4.1.4. PO-PSM  The decision-making structure of the Ministry is organized around seven divisions including MIS Division, all headed by Directors. At the top level the Ministry is led by the Minister and managed by the Principal Secretary. As hinted earlier, IT division is at the same level as other divisions in the organization and is headed by the Director of MIS that reports to the PS and is part of the executive management There is no IT steering committee; however, the decisions related to ICT are mostly handled in the executive and operational management meetings Normally, at major projects level, there are project committees, e.g. the case of HCMIS that has a committee chaired by the business department concerned, with IT and business people, and in this case going beyond a single ministry given its utility HR \(PO-PSM\d Payroll \(MoFEA\ues \(Fig. 4   4.1.5. MoFEA  The decision-making structure is organized around ten divisions including IT services division; some are headed by commissioners and others by directors. At top level, the Ministry is led by the Minister and managed by the PS. As indicated here IT division is at the same level as other divisions in the ministry. It is headed by the Director of IT Services reports to PS and is part of the executive management Currently, there is no IT steering committee however, interestingly they have a Website Board that oversees content matters and have both chairman and secretariat from the business and memberships from IT and business. In this way this board seems to contribute to its state of the art including updated conten  4.2. IT Governance Processes Processes refer to the strategic IT decision-making and monitoring d th e practic es are in dicated belo w    4.2.1. TRA  The authority has several processes in use including elements of ITIL, a framework for IT service management [20  A t t h e  m o me nt t h i s i s u s e d fo r  problems and incidents management to ensure best practices that serve better the IT users. Also, the authority has a project life cycle that uses PRINCE2, a worldwide known project management methodology  T h is in co m b in atio n  w i th th e earlier m e ntion e d  projects committees ensure success in the whole project life cycle from the request for pre-study, idea processing and validation, prioritizing up to development or acquisition and maintenance. If there is a problem at any stage of the project, it is likely to be captured earlier and mitigation prompted. It also provides consistency across the organization, thus reducing the learning curve Recently, the authority has also introduced the balanced scorecard [2 t corporate lev el an d cascaded it down to departments including IT. This has increased the alignment between IT and business including improvement in the reporting mechanisms and track of the IT achievements back to business goals o n t i n u e d i m prov e m e n t a n d e n f o rce m ent  will further increase compliance to ISO 9000 \(quality management systems\ being deployed and performance of IT in relation to business goals  4.2.2. MSD  The department does not follow any internationally recognized best practices and does not have IT strategic plan; rather IT plans are embedded within the corporate strategic plan. Also there are practices such as the use of a performance-based yearly business plan that indicates objectives to meet each year, activities to achieve them and KPIs for monitoring and evaluation Also elements of ROI are applied in appraisal of IT investment whether it is a new project or an upgrade of  Chairman Director Establish ment, POPSM Director IT Services MoFEA Director HR Developm ent, POPSM Director Managem ent Services PO-PSM Secretariat Director MIS POPSM Director Pension MoFEA Director Governme nt Budget MoFEA Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


the system. In additional SLA are used, mostly embedded in the contract, for acquiring and managing services by third parties. However, there are no such SLAs practices between IT and user departments  4.2.3. PMO-RALG  The Ministry does not practice any international recognized standard or framework and does not have IT strategic plan; rather IT plans are embedded within the ministry strategic plan. However they have developed a comprehensive IT Operational Plan for short- and medium-term periods based on previous MIS strategies and current ministry Strategic Plan. This Operational plan has Key Result Areas KRAs\ that are also linked to the targets of the ministry Strategic Plan. Some important aspects to note is that one of the KRAs is specifically on Information System Governance and these KRAs indicate clearly the activities and Key Performance Indicators \(KPIs  4.2.4. PO-PSM  It does not follow internationally known approaches and does not have IT strategic plan rather IT plans are embedded in the overall ministry Strategic Plan. This strategic plan includes general KPIs also for IT. Apart from that, the Directorate has created Client charter as SLA with user departments Though recently introduced, it allows measuring and improving its performance on a short-term basis Moreover, best practices like SWOT analysis are used in preparing IT plans as part of the ministry strategic plan. These altogether make the process of decision-making and monitoring more consistent not only to the Ministry but also to the facilitated MDAs  4.2.5. MoFEA  The Ministry does not follow any internationally recognized approach and doesn t have an IT strategic plan. However, it has an IT plan embedded in the overall strategic plan with activities deployed and monitored accordingly. This is also tracked from the expenditure point of view, where Medium Term Expenditure Framework \(MTEF standardized across the government is used. This allows tracking to be done both from a strategic plan and expenditure point of view, and the link established  4.3. IT Governance Relational Mechanisms Relational mechanisms are a catalyst for attaining and sustaining business-IT alignment, even when structures and processes are in place [4 h es e m e c h an i s m s are  important in the studied environment given the size of the organizations and nature of interaction required for a successful ICT integration in the corporate strategies and operations. Its practices are indicated below  4.3.1. TRA  Both IT and business people seemed to be equally aware of practices related to shared understanding of business/IT goals, shared learning and dialogue, informal meeting between business and IT management and cross-functional business/IT training. For example, several training opportunities exist for IT people in business issues, like tax administration and business people on IT. Meetings from strategic to operational levels are yet another opportunity bridging the training gap, e.g. using annual managers meetings to introduce new IT developments  4.3.2. MSD  In this department, practices include understanding of business and IT goals; for example no IT plans are formulated and/or implemented without consultation with the management and project-based committees. This ensures subsequent accountability in implementation and use in respective departments Others are informal meetings between Business and IT management for example to discuss business logic related issues during planning and implementation Furthermore, cross-functional business/IT training is also practiced in several themes such as customer care and effective use of infrastructure and applications  4.3.3. PMO-RALG  Practices include shared understanding of business and IT goals, where major IT initiatives are presented and discussed in the management meetings that comprise Business and IT people. This also applies to plans and implementation done through benchmarked ministry strategic plans and IT operational plan. Others are shared learning and dialogue for example through workshops; informal meeting between Business and IT people for example during project initiation and implementation; and cross-functional business/IT training for example on leadership and supported information systems. These together with other mechanisms ensure alignment and accountability in IT enabled projects [2 resu lti n g to  higher IT contribution to achieve ministry goals  4.3.4. PO-PSM The survey found out that there was consistency of practices related to shared understanding of business and IT goals, learning and dialogue, informal meeting and cross-functional business and IT training. For example, several joint awareness and training sessions have been held on egovernment and public service reforms. Also meetings span from executive and operational management types to the project-based and ad-hoc ones. These practices have assisted the Ministry to integrate IT to the current stage, which apparently has impact in the constantly improving public service delivery  4.3.5. MoFEA  The majority were aware of the shared understanding of business and IT goals, informal meeting between Business and IT and cross-functional Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


business and IT training. The first two are for example practiced through management and project meetings and strategic planning and budgeting processes. The last one is practiced in terms of joint awareness/training related to deployed IT and area of application. A good example is the case of IFMIS among IT and accountants where general knowledge in accounts and IT are provided, followed by the actual use or management of the system. Although the Ministry has a long way to go for effective IT Governance, the mechanisms in place have assisted the Ministry in ensuring that IT contributes to the organizational goals  4.4. A Summary on IT Governance Practices The practice on IT Governance mechanisms across the public sector in the studied organizations spanning from structure, processes to relational mechanisms pointed out earlier in each individual case, are summarized \(Table 2\d discussed in the perspective of the commonality or differences Table 2 Summary of IT governance structures, processes and relational mechanisms in the studied organizations  Practice Type Practices across studied organizations i\tructures Organizational  structure of IT function All are headed by directors, report directly to CEO and are part of the executive management and directors attend the board where it applies How is IT instituted in the organization They are mostly centralized and in some cases with staff distributed to work directly in a user department or branch Committees There are no IT steering Committees with exception of one of them At the level of the major projects generally there are committees established to oversee implementation Also in some organizations there are several other committees to handle cutting-across issues like security change controls and website content ii\cesses Strategic IS Planning Not directly applied  However, generally there are elements of its application in preparing corporate/IT strategic plans   SWOT Analysis Mostly applied across studied organizations in different magnitudes lower in corporate strategic plans that include IT and highly in the IT strategic plan currently in one organization Balanced scorecard Generally not applied. However one of the organizations started to practice it from the corporate strategic plan down to departments and individuals ROI calculation and measurements Not applied per se. However, major IT investment needs non-financial and some financial benefits justifications like the case of HCMIS project cited earlier COBIT or related IT Governance frameworks Not applied. However, one organization has started implementing some aspects of ITIL and indirectly some areas of COBIT Service Level Agreements SLAs Hardly applied internally. However, it is mostly applied for external service providers as part of the contracts Activity Based Costing Budgeting ABC Applied in most of them based on Medium-Term Expenditure Framework MTEF\ government wide tool for planning activities, resources, and associated performance iii\lational Mechanisms Shared understanding of business/IT goals It is widely practiced mostly through normal management mechanisms like management meetings and special IT project/programmes-based committees Shared learning and dialogue Somehow practiced through meetings workshops and training on issues pertaining to business and IT in relation with IS development and use Informal meetings between business and IT management It is widely practiced at different levels for example in clarifying some IT/Business issues especially when a new IT enabled project is being initiated or implemented Crossfunctional business/IT training It is widely practiced through workshop and training on matters of interest among IT and business people Performance Partnership rewards and incentives It is not systematically practiced However, occasionally some people are rewarded due to outstanding performance on innovative solutions Crossfunctional business/IT job rotation co-location Not widely practiced. However, in one of the cases, co-location across the units and zones/branches has been applied Virtual meeting" for business and IT people e.g Intranet use Not practiced. Although there is already Intranet in many of these organizations it has not been widely used due to cultural and enforcement issues Knowledge management Not widely practiced in terms of having the knowledge base of general or specific areas Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


The analysis of these mechanisms indicates that there are some strengths and weaknesses as far as the practices for each category, are concerned.  Generally the studied organizations indicate to have strength in supportive IT organization structure with exception of not having IT strategy and steering committees in most of them. The major weaknesses seem to be on the processes where best practices and standards like Strategic Information Systems Planning, IT Management/Governance & performance management frameworks are rarely applied and this could be detrimental to the consistency and enforcement in deployment, use and management of IT. Also while there is some strength in relational mechanisms practices like shared understanding of business/IT goals and Informal meetings between business and IT management across the studied environment, there are also weaknesses in many of these mechanisms including knowledge management, virtual meeting points and performance/partnership rewards and incentives. It is also worth to note that improvement on these practices is continuously being done, however not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal progress in governance of IT to further increase IT contribution to achieve corporate goals Looking at these results in the international context we see that they are in contrast with related studies in the developed world, like is the case of six organizations in Belgium [9   w h i c h i n d i c a t e d t h a t  most of them had specific IT Governance projects and applied best practices and standards  like COBIT, ITIL PRINCE2 and Balance Scorecard Taking into account the fact that one of the key determinants of the effective IT Governance in the organization, apart from constitution of IT structure, is where the IT decision-making authority is located in the organization l s o  tak i n g i n to accou n t th e  practices in place in relation to IT Governance key decisions in terms of who provides input on one hand and decides on the other, the findings across the studied organizations indicate that generally both are distributed across the organization as indicated in Fig 5. Specifically, however, the notable pattern indicates that IT provides most of the inputs throughout the decisions except on the Business application needs where inputs are equally coming from business related groups. The decisions indicate a different trend as are mostly made by executive management comprising IT and Business people, which if done well is likely to increase alignment of IT and business and smooth implementation of IT applications and its us Looking at related studies elsewhere and taking the case of MIT-CISR work and specifically on the public  iou s th a t t h ere are si m i larities i n t h e  pattern especially on decisions where federal dominates in both cases. However, differences appear in decisions related to IT architecture and infrastructure, done by IT Monarchy while in our case it is done by the same Federal. Notably, when it comes to the input, the difference seems to be substantial due to the fact that while IT monarchy dominates most of the inputs in the compared studies, our related study environment indicates to be dominated by Federal Looking at the differences in both cases we can see that the mature IT Governance practices especially on structures might be one of the determinants of the differences and required governance effectiveness    5. Discussion: Problems and consequences Use of ICT in the studied environment is still a relatively new culture and this has contributed to the problems encount  T h es e proble m s are  discussed here based on the representative case studies seen earlier. Also this section indicates the consequences in order that the implications for not taking necessary actions are known, so that this could be taken as motivation for change or further research  5.1. Problems As it was earlier indicated, one vital way of looking at IT Governance related problems in an organization is its key focus areas o applied by oth e r earlier  studies T h es e areas i.e. s t rateg ic al ignm ent, v a l u e  delivery, risk management, resource management and Fi g ure 5 The IT Governance key decisions patterns in the studied organizations  1 5 No. Of  Cases Occurence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


performance management, are also applied here to look into the problems as were embedded in the questionnaires used in the survey. These problems are ranked according to the interviewees perspective on their seriousness in the sector \(Table 3\d respective discussion is done as per IT Governance focus areas Also the highlight is provided taking into account the summary and discussion on the current practices unveiled in the earlier section  5.1.1. Strategic Alignment This focuses on ensuring the linkage of business and IT plans; defining maintaining and validating the IT value proposition and aligning IT operations with enterprise operations  ook i n g acros s t h e s t u d i e d org an i z a t i ons i t i s  clear that there is no specific IT strategic plan in most of them that could tie the business and IT activities more holistically and effectively. This, among others leads to the biggest problem, i.e. lack of ownership by business people in IT-enabled projects \(Table 3\d in some cases organizations being forced to allocate IT personnel to do what business people should be doing rather than supporting them The aspect of inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures is another problem that is also consistent across most of them. It hampers consistency in ICT usage and management, which is yet another serious problem. Lack of IT Governance awareness and certainly some guidelines are also seen as problem This is also linked with HR related problems on lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability that sometimes, among others, leads to the ad-hoc practices. While it appears that there are mechanisms to communicate ICT plans and goals e.g. through meetings and workshops, inadequate enforcement mechanisms still hamper the widespread use of ICT and promised benefits. An example is Intranet which seems to be in place in many organizations and can increase IT/Business partnershi d in tern a l  efficiency but it is still not being used widely enough  5.1.2. Value delivery  is one of the IT Governance outcomes and is about value proposition throughout the delivery cycle, ensuring that IT delivers the promised benefits against the strategy or plans t h i s  regard it was found out that despite the high cost of IT there is still lower return or business value. This happens due to the mentioned earlier non-optimal use missing synergies, and inadequate facilitation and enforcement for a widespread use. One of the interviewees claimed that some offices were still using computers merely as fast typewriters  5.1.3. Risk Management Risk management requires awareness by senior and operational officers and embedding of risk management responsibilities in the Table 3 Ranked problems seriousness as per survey in the studied organizations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


organization [10  T h e sur v e y i n d i c a t e s t h a t ge ne r a l l y there is still a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services which is also consistent with earlier studies on IT security matters in the environmen w e v e r, f o r th e v e r y critical an d  country wide systems like Integrated Financial MIS IFMIS\at manages all government expenditures risk management is relatively higher and sometimes exaggerated. The latter is due to the fact that it has a separate physical network within the ministry concerned and across some government offices   5.1.4. Resource Management which ensures optimal investment and the proper management of critical IT resources  y et a n oth e r problem atic area i n t h e  sector. The issue of attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel is still a nightmare to solve, despite some efforts continually made Availability of essential budget for the required IT resources is yet another problem especially for low level staff, in regions and branches. Together with these is the case of fragmented IT initiatives with duplication of efforts and a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale. For example one could find heavy duty printers or photocopiers with capacity to serve many employees or offices only serving a single person or office, thus mostly staying idle. Moreover, there are still some fragmented business applications in the studied organizations  5.1.5. Performance Management that is important for tracking and monitoring strategy and plans implementation and benefits accrued and measured beyond the conventional accounting y et an ot h e r  problematic area. Although there is progress in this direction like the recently use of the balanced scorecard in one of the organizations or metrics embedded in the ministerial strategic plans, the environment generally poses some weaknesses. This again came out strongly in the survey \(Table 3 Others include inadequate follow-up and enforcement on the matters discussed in the IT related committees and meetings. This also indicates that putting IT structures in place is not enough; one should go beyond to implement necessary processes and relational mechanisms to ensure the returns on investme  As indicated earlier, Table 3 presents the ranked problems in the public sector. These results are also comparable to other related studies like those produced by the IT Governance Institut 2 5] an d th e MI T CISR study on 256 organizations worldw ile  there are differences among them like lack of ownership of IT projects, relatively lower acceptance of new IT applications, fragmented IT initiatives and inadequate enforcement mechanisms that hamper the optimal use of the IT resources, there are also similarities. These include staff matters but in this case going further to the staff shortage and inadequate IT skills and competency. Others are weak measurement of IT performance and value to the business, high cost of IT but low ROI and security issues  5.2. Consequences Several studies have indicated possible consequences for not having effective IT Governance in place, in the cases related to public sector in a developing country  22  Bas e d on th es e cas es an d a preli m i n a r y  survey in the public sector, possible consequences were investigated and bundled together as shown in Fig. 6. According to the study results there are serious consequences in the sector that can be detrimental to the effort towards effective IT Governance, and hence improvement in the public service delivery. The most serious problem noted is the difficulty involved in holding individuals accountable for their results Others are ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations, which are obviously outcomes of not having a good IT governance in place where people finds their own solutions, and sometimes take this loophole to misuse the IT resources      Fi g ure 6 Ranked consequences as a result of the survey in the studied organizations  85 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Additionally, there are traditional consequences like IT investment losses, and given the magnitude of systems put in place in these kinds of organizations, they encounter the loss of a lot of money and effort when a project fails to deliver its promises Similarly, there are reputation damages which are also a nasty consequence to such large organizations for example, at a revenue authority if the system that deals with customs clearance or tax payments have some problems and there is no adequate governance that ensures the timely recovery or alternative solution this will be in the news the following day. Knowing the problems and associated consequences will assist the IT decision makers in prioritizing activities and solutions for effective IT governance and consequently the improvement in the public service delivery  6. Conclusions In this paper, based on the analysis of five public organizations, we have described IT Governance current practices, problems encountered and the consequences in the public sector in a developing country. The IT Governance mechanisms, together with key focus and decision areas provided the means for a thorough investigation into the studied environment. The combination of these approaches was found to be useful in uncovering practices of interest in this environment, where on one hand IT resources are scarce and its development and management are relatively less established and on the other hand the use of ICT in providing public services is gaining momentum and several efforts are being made to carry it out successfully. The analysis of IT Governance practices in the studied organizations indicate diverse practices in relation to structures processes and relational mechanisms with notable weakness in the processes where, in contrast with developed world, best practices are rarely applied in most of them It was also noted that improvement on these practices are being done continually, not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal improvement to increase the IT contribution to the organizational goals. The analysis revealed a number of problems and their consequences in the organizations. The problems we found are categorized in the IT Governance key focus areas, and are including the lack of a specific IT strategic plan in most of them; lack of business people ownership in ITenabled projects; inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures; lack of IT Governance awareness and guidelines; inadequate follow-up and enforcement mechanisms; and lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability. Others problems found are a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services; attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel; inadequate budget for required IT resources; fragmented IT initiatives with a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale; high cost of IT with lower business value; and weak measures of IT performance and value to business In addition, to the problems and challenges in the public sector, several consequences that can be detrimental to the efforts towards effective IT Governance and hence improvements in the public service delivery were also revealed. The most common ones include the difficulty of holding individuals accountable for their results; ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations; and traditional consequences like IT investment losses and damage to the reputation of the organization in question  References  T GI En terpris e Value: Gov e rn a n ce of IT Investments, The Val IT Framework, 2006. Retrieved from  www.itgi.org   P e terson R. R., In teg r ation Strateg ie s an d T a ctics for IT Governance, In W. Van Grembergen \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   arav adi C  S  D i g i tal repos itories  f o r egovernment, E-Government, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2005 pp.205-218   Gre m berg e n W., De Haes S Gulden tops   E. Structures, processes and relational mechanisms for IT governance. In Van Grembergen W. \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   e ill, P    Ross, J  W  IT Gov e rn an ce Ho w T op Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results, Harvard Business School Press, 2004   T a n zan ia Nation al IC T  P o licy  A v ai lable at  www.tanzania.go.tz/pdf/ictpolicy.pdf, 2003. Last accessed, June 2008   dou V  eG o v e rnm ent for D e v e l opi n g  C oun t r i e s  Opportunities and Challenges. The Electronic Journal on IS in Developing Countries \(EJISDC\, 2004  8  B a ka r i  J  B  A ho l i s t i c  A p p r o a c h fo r M a na gi ng I C T  Security in Non-Commercial Organizations: A case in a developing country, Doctoral Thesis, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


 Grem berg e n W  De Haes S. I m ple m e n ti ng Information Technology Governance: Models Practices and Cases. IGI Publishing, 2008   T G I. Boa rd b r ief i ng on  IT g o v e rn an ce \(2 nd ed 2003.  Retrieved from www.itgi.org on May 2008   T R A  A bout T a n zan ia Rev e nu e Au t h orit y  T R A   and related statistics in the case study, www.tra.go.tz 2008. Last accessed May 2008   MS D. A bou t Medical S t ores Departm e n t MS D   and related statistics in the case study, www.msd.or.tz 2008. Last accessed, May 2008   PMOR AL G A bou t Prim e Minis t er s Office Regional Authority and Local Government \(PMORALG\d related statistics in the case study www.pmoralg.go.tz, 2008, Last accessed May 2008   O P SM. A bou t P r eside n t O f f i ce, P u blic Services  Management \(PO-PSM\d related statistics in the case study, www.utumishi.go.tz, 2008. Accessed 2008   o F E A 2008 A bou t  Mi n i s t r y of Fi n a n c e an d  Economic Affairs \(MoFEA\d related statistics in the case study, www.mof.go.tz. Last accessed May 2008   ers, Mich ae l D. "Qu alitat iv e Researc h i n  Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 2 1997, pp. 241-242    R   C a s e  S t u d y res e arch des i g n an d m e t h ods   third edition. Sage Publications, 2003   Peters on R  R  C r afting I T Gov e rn an ce f o r toda y s turbulent environment, Information Systems Management, Vol. 21 No.4, 2004, pp.7-21  19 N f uka E  N   R u s u  L  M a na ge me n t o f I T enabled change in a public organization in Tanzania Int. J. Information Systems and Change Management Vol.2, No.4, 2007, pp. 334-349, Inderscience Publishers  20 O G C B e s t M a n a g e m e n t P r a c t i c e i n I T S e r v i c e  Management \(ITIL\ and Project Management PRINCE2\008, retrieved from www.bestmanagement-practice.com on August, 2008   R Norton D T h e balan ced s c orecard Measures that drive performance. Harvard Business Review, 1992, 70\(1\71-79   a y a y a S  G  A  s t u d y  of t h e poten tia l u s a g e o f  ICT \(E-government\ in improving efficiency and effectiveness of executive functions of the government including delivery of Public Services Case of Tanzania. A dissertation for degree of MEM at UDSM, 2003   u pan g k a t, S  H R a hm a t B S e m b iring J. IT  Governance for Developing Countries. School of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, Institute of Technology Bandung. Engage Indonesia, 2006   T GI PWC  IT Gov e rn an ce Gl obal St at us Report, 2006. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   T G I  PWC  I T Go v e rn a n ce Global S t at us Report, 2008. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   i bbers P.M.A P e ters o n  R  R P a rk er, M.M Designing IT governance processes: Diagnosing contemporary practices and competing theories Proceedings of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS   e, R  19 95  T h e art of cas e res e arch  Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


  13  Use of Web Technologies The web development effort involved a long learning curve for some of the RDE Upgrade development team HTML We used HyperText Markup Language \(HTML\o layout the web framework and page structures AJAX/JSON  The AJAX \(asynchronous JavaScri pt and XML\tern was introduced to support a responsive web GUI.  An implementation of JSON \(JavaScript Object Notation provides the data service inte rface from the web client to a tomcat-maintained servlet. We have run into very few issues with this technology 10 11 12  CSS Cascading Style Sheets \(CSS\provide a straightforward way to manage web page styles. The language is well supported through the open-source FireBug Edito 14  JavaScript We used JavaScript to provide a rich interactive web interface, however our experien ce with JavaScript was not entirely favorable.   The Java Script \(JS approach to APIs including widgets led to our implementing more JS code than we might otherwise have.  We found the 223typeless\224 language occasionally caused confusion.  We did find that it could be \223made to provide\224 a rich web interface though probably a heavier interface than it needs to be.  One real positive for JS is the huge volume of sample code available on the Internet, saving time when dealing with the many implementation problems that spring up JasperReport  We used a toolkit called JasperReport to build a database report we could execute from our web interface.  A JasperReport is edited using the iReport tool. When the report is opened, the JasperSoft library is executed which updates each field from the database and presents the updated report The next section describes some of the \223analysis views\224 that can be generated from data in the RDE store 5  R ELAY A CCOUNTABILITY A NALYSIS  From the start of the Phoenix mission through the current day the RDE tool has been us ed primarily to extract pass statistics for reporting.  The key primary tracked statistic is the total volume of data delivered by each relay spacecraft Typically the \223Export Volumes\224 web view is used for a 223quick\224 export of these data, though the \223General Query\224 view can also be used for this purpose.  Raw tabular data are exported in Comma Separated Value \(CSV\at and then normally imported into an Excel spreadsheet for charting Figure 6 shows the total volume over time from the start of Phoenix mission \(Sol 0\o Sol 120, about a month past the end of prime mission Cumulative Return Link Data Volume 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 0 30 60 90 120 Sol MRO Cumulative Ret Fill DV MRO Cumulative Ret PHX DV ODY Cumulative Ret Fill DV ODY Cumulative Ret PHX DV   Figure 6 \226 Cumulative Return Link Volume Figure 7 shows the same data values, but charted to show the total data volume transmitted per Sol  Return Link Data Volume by Sol PHX Lander Data + Fill Data 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 0 30 60 90 120 Sol ODY Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits MRO Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits  Figure 7 \226 Data Volume By Sol  On Figure 6 and Figure 7, the Phoenix Data Volume \(DV shown represents actual telemetry data and science product delivered.  The Fill DV on both figures represents \223fill\224 frames that are transmitted when a relay link is open but no actual lander data is available to transmit.  This chart shows that the Odyssey mission has carried the most part of 


  14 Phoenix relay data over MRO.  The low MRO volumes at the very early end of the chart are due to early MRO communications issues with Phoenix that were not resolved until later in the mission.  The volume discrepancies are clearly visible from both charts Figure 8 shows the data volumes for the 128K overflights as a function of Mars LMST \(Local Mean Solar Time 128 kbps Return Link Data Rate 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 0:00:00 6:00:00 12:00:00 18:00:00 0:00:00 Local Mean Solar Time ODY MRO PHX Re q uirement:  30 Mb p ass  Figure 8 \226 Data Volume By Sol  Figure 9 shows a comparison of data volume predicts vs pass performance values  Figure 9 \226 Volume Predicts vs. Performance  6  C ONCLUSIONS  For ASC, the next step is to achieve a level of database independence.  We look to take advantage of emerging best practices technologies and patterns \(e.g. Hibernate  t o  upgrade our core server function to database independence and our Agent Framework to take advantage of a workflow execution function or language such as the Business Process execution Language \(BPEL  RDE is planned for update with the Mars Science Laboratory \(MSL\ission.  This will include any required updates to the planning input s \(MSL will utilize a wider range of relay parameters, including higher data rates multiple frequency channels and possibly new modulation and coding schemes and adaptive data rate functionality and a likely major change in the handling of predicts One significant additional RDE improvement proposed is to develop a web-based tactical interface supporting pass utilization requests and tacti cal updates.  Currently, all tactical relay coordination is accomplished via email and phone.  This process could be greatly improved with the upgrade to of a web-based system.  However, if adopted this upgrade would have a large impact on the current operational tactical process and thus must be carefully engineered across a broad user base  Overall we found we were able to accomplish our primary relay accountability goals using our chosen architecture The ASC server held up as a useful way to manage objectrelational transactions over a distributed network, and our event-driven client mechan isms were assembled in a straightforward manner using the existing ASC Agent Framework as well as the DOM message reactor function Our ability to accomplish this broad integration at a consistently low level of funding tells us that these technologies and patterns are worth pursuing as part of further accountability prototype pilot, and deployment activities A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The work described in this paper was conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Californi a Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  The authors wish to further acknowledge other individuals who made key contributions to research and development including Marti DeMore, Lloyd DeForrest, Derek Kiang Ashley Shamilian, Lori Nakamura, Mark Palm, Priscilla Parrish and Mike Tankenson  


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


