 
Market Szczecinek Poland marek.grunt@epm.com.pl 
13-3 Perspectives of development of integrated monitoring system of power supply and air conditioning equipment towards technical environment equipment monitoring system of the operator Piotr Paschke Leading Polish Operator Poznan Poland piotr.paschke@gmai1.com Maciej Plonczak Leading Polish Operator Poznan Poland maciej.plonczak@gmai1.com Pawel Klis National Institute of Telecommunications Warsaw Poland p.klis@it1.waw.pl Marek Grunt Electronic Power 
The paper presents integrated monitoring system of power supply and air conditioning equipment for almost 10000 sites 
Abstract 
which has been put into operation in one of the biggest telecom operators in Europe This operator offers clients fixed and mobile network services as well as the ones based on broadband access to the internet VoIP IPTV VoD The paper describes the way in which the operator has integrated the monitoring system of the technologies mentioned with power supply and air conditioning monitoring system which at the same time resulted in essential benefits of this integration 
The system based on client-server architecture transmits data to main or dedicated monitoring centers The system server cooperates with dedicated microprocessor site controllers or with technological controllers of monitored equipment The integration of this system with other already existing ones is also in progress The paper also presents the way of infrastructure monitoring concerning operator's mobile network BTS due to features of the dedicated external controller designed specially for this purpose The communication with the monitoring system 
as well as monitoring of all technical infrastructure equipment on site power system HV AC security and access control system fire alarm system is possible by means of one controller Implementing the system into service has enabled the creation of the open platform for the whole infrastructure integration in one monitoring system The further part of the paper presents the possibilities of electric energy meters remote readout by means of the system This will enable the operator to 
be prepared for new ED regulations which apply to free market electric energy dynamic purchase as well as enable online electric energy consumption measurements with smaller service providers which at the same time use the operator's infrastructure often with distributed architecture The possibility of the system in legacy copper wire network protection was also presented Destructions and 11-1978-1-4244-2056-8/08/$25.00 2512008 IEEE robberies of this network cause big losses which results in the lack of providing services to clients This 
paper is the continuation of the one entitled Integrated Management System for Technical Infrastructure of Telecom Sites presented during Intelec 2007 conference in Rome 
I 
INTRODUCTION Constantly growing competition on service market forces operators to provide constant accessibility to services offered to clients The key issue is not only the high standard of services provided for competitive price but also the creation of such technical conditions in the operator infrastructure so as to minimize the risk of outages as well as the time limitation needed for the previous state restoration in case 
of a failure This situation is especially important for the biggest operators which offer a full range of modem services The operator mentioned does not only have to conduct the marketing campaign but also has to take care of the already possessed clients who in fact may intend to change the services provider being the consequence of a significant number of slowly solved technical problems To this end operators have equipped their staff with adequate monitoring systems including supervising the equipment which secure proper conditions for power supply and air conditioning for the whole infrastructure providing services Power equipment and air conditioning securing 
energetic autonomy and proper environmental conditions in sites are the basis for the whole equipment providing services chain There is no question that without proper supervision of power and chilling systems there is any efficient and faultless functioning of the equipment which provides telephone Internet or broadband packet transmission service VoIP IPTV and VoD Since recently technical infrastructure monitoring systems has been purchased frequently by chance during realization of some investment tasks The consequence of this situation was the existence of many independent systems in operator networks delivered by producers of supervised equipment 


and cooperating with specific types of equipment frequently by means of internal controller and dedicated close protocol Technical knowledge specific for each system was needed for work with these applications Maintenance costs of these systems were big expenditures for operators budgets From the reasons mentioned above the operator whose implementation system has been presented in this paper decided to introduce one common system which integrates equipment and different manufacturers systems II COMPUTERIZED MONITORING SYSTEM CMS The system which is opt for is the one designed by the leading producer of monitoring systems for power and air conditioning systems on the Polish market The detailed implementation process was described in the paper Integrated Management System for Technical Infrastructure of Telecom Sites presented by authors on INTELEC Conference Rome 2007 Some basic functions of this system presented in details in the work mentioned above are developed below MT TS1 TS2 TS3 TS4 TS5 13-3 Figure 1 General structure of eMS Data transmission to Central Unit from supervised sites is based on so called the push-pull model It means that during a routine operation status change data of supervised equipment for example air conditioner on/off or actual measurements are transmitted in a strictly defined time regime mostly twice a day The server is in this case the initiating transfer party III CMS STRUCTURE The system is constructed in client-server architecture The central point of this system is the server working in redundant configuration called Central Unit CU Its basic task is the communication with site controllers data acquisition and archiving previously received from sites as well as the communication with upper level monitoring systems and data availability to Monitoring Centers workstations Figure 2 Screenshot of thin client interface VI ARCHITECTURE OF CMS The integration of power and air conditioning monitoring systems carried out by the operator last year consisting of five which is in accordance with a defined schedule and which in tum sends data request to sites and takes buffered data there PULL In case of a hazard in a supervised site the site controller generates an alarm and initiates a session which sends the message to the server PUSH The basic workstation version also called Monitoring Center together with specialized application in Professional version is dedicated for units which directly deal with sites supervision and monitoring as well as with working power and air conditioning devices This Professional version enables direct connection with a site and direct readout of equipment alarm status measurements execution on demand and as well as equipment control In this version there is an extended module for statistics and profile reports creator based on data saved in the system Additionally the producer of CMS designed Light version of Monitoring Center which can be used by technical teams solving problems directly on sites The functionality and graphic interface in this version is similar to Professional version but different from the one based on records and data already saved in the system which does not allow for direct connection with the site The Monitoring Center version working as so called thin client was additionally designed on operator demand and this version is executed in standard web browser The functionality of this version is limited and enables to browse actual alarms and measurements on site Furthermore it does not allow for any reports and statistics creation and is based similar to Light version on data already transferred to the system server The possibility of using it on any computer connected to corporate network and on specialists laptops connected to corporate network by means of secure remote access is an advantage of this version TSN 


225\225 t    Figure 3 CMS architecture V INTEGRATIONOFCMSWITHANIMS As it was mentioned the operator attaches significant importance to issues related to monitoring of broadband access to Internet equipment DSLAM IPDSLAM xPON MSAN on which basis services such as fast access to Internet VoIP and IPTV together with VoD are offered To this end the operator implemented Access Network Integrated Management System called ANIMS By means of this platform specialists conduct twenty-four-hour supervision of alarms and clarify events in elements of the access network Since the majority of events is directly caused by energetic autonomy hazard or improper environmental conditions high temperature in the summer and low in the winter the priority for the operator was to provide specialists with the information about events in the equipment responsible for these conditions Before the integration it was simply the terminal of CMS on which the operator staff was verifying improper status of supervised DSLAMs It was an onerous work due to a huge number of sites presenting in CMS the information about equipment status that was at the same time in excess and often unclear to the operator on duty without knowledge about peculiarity of power equipment operation A Inteiface connecting eMS with ANIMS On the integration stage of CMS the requirements for the interface between CMS and ANIMS were created in order to 13-3 transmit directly to ANIMS only selected information with critical alarms from point of view of operation autonomy of the site in which the equipment delivering broadband access to Internet is installed The information transmitted to ANIMS are as follows 225 Heartbeat of CMS servers 225 Battery operation of the site 225 Temperature in the site over range to high or to low 225 Critical state of batteries batteries close to the end of discharge  The information mentioned above together with unique site tag allows for easy correlation of the hazard statuses and in significant way improved ergonomics of the work of ANIMS operator and accelerated the process of taking decision concerning what actions have to be taken to clarify the alarm state of the site Figure 4 Screen of site status from MC of ANIMS alarm event from CMS\255 in dark blue VI BTS SUPERVISION The complete CMS verification in the network real conditions has convinced the operator to consider whether this system can be used for supervision of mobile network infrastructure owned by the operator Besides sites of MSC type or BSC controllers which supervision can be realized in a classical way similar to supervision of fixed system sites the big challenge is the creation architecture system for supervision of power and air conditioning systems in several thousands of BTS So far the supervision of BTS technical infrastructure has been completed by means of binary alarm inputs in which all transceiver and teletransmission systems of each mast with aerials are equipped Each system has several free inputs of this type to which alarm outputs of power system air conditioner or fire system were connected Generated alarm is sent to monitoring system of mobile network and each time has to be correctly interpreted by the operator on duty Of course the remote measurement execution or remote control of the equipment is not possible The limited number of free alarm inputs causes the alarms to be connected together and in case of alarm from air conditioner it is not possible to I cooperating servers of CMS geographically deployed all over the country Five centers were created called North East South and West and additionally the Central unit responsible for equipment installed in close surroundings of Warsaw the capital of Poland and one of the biggest business center of Middle-East Europe Servers responsible for working out analyses and statistics from data derived from the whole network were placed in the same time in one of the locations These servers were also responsible for CMS cooperation with external operator systems such as workflow management system access network integrated management system ANIMS  t  


determine whether one unit has failed and the other may safely operate to the time when service team will react in normal mode of action or all units have failed and the service team must be called immediately The decision to visit the site is made just in case what in many cases means the unnecessary high costs The situation described above induced the operator to search for a solution connected with taking advantage of CMS possibilities which in tum will solve problems and give mobile network equipment operators the same possibilities as fixed network equipment operators have To this end CMS provider together with National Institute of Telecommunications NIT designed and in consequence made a prototype and finally commercial version of controller especially designed for BTS supervision The designing of this controller was easier because practically all BTS are equally equipped Power systems air conditioners fire sensors controllers of security system are of the same type in all sites This allowed for the integration of all controller modules in one case holding both binary inputs analogue inputs control outputs interfaces for direct connection with smoke and movement sensors interface of security system controller and double module for communication with CMS This communication module uses transmission channel created in a digital stream of radio link as well as GPRS modem which provides connection in case of basic connection failure BTS controller is equipped with battery which maintains controller supply during failure of basic supply The use of one universal controller for supervision of the whole site technical infrastructure gives significant savings in investment stage with all functionality expected by the operator fulfilled 13-3 It is worth mentioning that the controller can operate in transparent mode transferring the information to the equipment connected to the service connector mostly RS\255 232 This allows for full diagnosis of supervised equipment with use of firmware The controller is equipped with one interesting feature activated on demand This involves direct implementation in the controller the algorithm detecting the fire on site and taking action even without CMS participation After smoke detection the controller resets smoke sensors to prevent system from false alarm and introduces the operation supervision mode With the next detection of the smoke the internal contactor switches off ventilation and air conditioning of the site cutting off the supply of fresh air which results in fire extinguishing  This is a very useful feature because even in case of CMS failure and lack of communication with CMS it is possible to minimize the fire propagation and limit losses Figure 5 ZSN-O controller ofCMS VII REMOTE READOUT OF ENERGY METERS The next functionality of CMS introduced in the operator network during the pilot installation was the remote energy meters reading AMR which is an essential requirement for free market dynamic energy purchase in European Community controlled with directive 2003/54/EC concerning common rules for internal market in electricity Central AMR system providing real not estimated analyzes of energy consumption enables the creation of negotiation space which is the basis for discussion with energy providers In order to check technical possibilities of remote readings of meters with maximal use of technical infrastructure existing in the operator network the pilot installation was put into operation Owing to that energy meters are generally placed close to power systems CMS as a base and transmission medium for communication and data transmission from meters to dedicated systems which analyze readouts was a justified choice Figure 6 Structure of pilot installation of AMR A Controller of BTS supervision B Modes ofBTS controller operation 


An access to global data from energy meters may be used for easy determination of energy-consuming places in operator network Having an access to twenty four hours energy consumption profiles and comparing the sites of similar class it is possible to appoint places where the energy is consumed in an unreasonable way The experiences of big energy consumers which installed in their networks systems of remote energy meters readings showed that taking advantage from created possibilities allows for limitation of energy consumption from 5 to 20 for stable loads and to 30 for instable loads Well there is fight for VIII COPPER WIRE NETWORK PROTECTION One of the important elements of CMS is network hermetization system see Fig 7 designed in NIT Acts of vandalism and terrorism can be the cause of financial losses on an operator part but also losses on a client part and an increase of client's discontent with inaccessibility to services provided by the operator The important aspect is the safety matter connected with uninterruptible connection in case of emergency In order to protect legacy network against vandalism and interference of undesirable persons CMS of the operator can be equipped with a cable network monitoring and a protection system This system enables 225 To notify the local monitoring center of event The analytical work on designing the software module for prediction of events which can be implemented in CMS goes on This will give OPEX savings realized by optimization of supervised equipment and sites management with use of information about predicted alarm states of the equipment energy autonomy plans of exchange maintenance of batteries The CMS can be extended with elements providing the security of sites signalization of breaking in access control fire water leak signalization CCTV For not extended sites mentioned above functions can be realized by site controller equipped with the so called security module MB Security module communicates with site controller sending data to CMS By means of this transmission channel the full configuration of module settings is possible entitled access and it reviews history events Security module is also equipped with transmission channel to local alarm call center In order to increase the informing promptness of competent technical staff it is possible to use cheap and faultless SMS technology System server sends directly to telephones of these persons SMS messages with information on status of sites equipment they are responsible for It is possible to form questions on site status by means of SMS commands set/reset of alarm systems keeping the principles of security base of entitled telephones passwords C CMS uses existing site controller for communication with meter interface which must be equipped in adequate interface for example RS-485 or CLO The data read by the meter are buffered in its flash memory in 15 minutes periods This period is chosen in order to collect necessary data for power profile of measured circuits analysis and thus is helpful in power consumption control in order to avoid high contractual penalties due to higher consumption than ordered from energy provider These data saved are transmitted to CMS during session with the site and saved in data base They can be immediately read out from Monitoring Center terminal or sent to the external system for analysis creation of necessary reports and statistics This system will give the operator a chance for change in the model to account for energy with smaller operators which use the infrastructure of bigger operator In this moment charges are flat-rate independently from power consumption In some sites the standard meters are installed in circuits used by other operators Due to the lack of sufficient personnel the readouts are executed once a year It means that during the whole year the account for energy is done by means of monthly payments from preceding year In the end of the year after readout of real energy consumption corrective documents are issued Thus the operator in some way gives credit to the contracting party while having the access to monthly readouts would account for real energy consumption 225 To send an information to staff on duty responsible for cable network protection 225 Fast detection of place where the cable was cut or interference in monitored site 225 To archive data from the event The system consists of measuring heads to which free pairs of supervised cables and sensors installed in supervised sites cable vaults and cable cabinets are connected In case of cable cut or reaction of the sensor the alarm is transmitted to monitoring center and in the same to call the center of the firm responsible for physical protection of network and sites The signal of alarm identification and measuring data enabling the location of the event are transmitted by means of interface RS-232 or in case of longer distances between PC and local monitoring center and measuring head by means of analogue or digital modem The result of legacy network monitoring and protection system actions is 225 Limitation of losses on operator and subscriber side 225 Prevention by fast reaction on alarm signal 225 Faster recovery of the network to the previous state 225 Keeping up the subscriber's content connected with continuity of providing services IX FURTHER PERSPECTIVES OF CMS DEVELOPMENT 13-3 A Power consumption control B Module for GSM telephones A Prediction of energetic autonomy of sites CSM integration with security systems of sites 


13-3 ACe of the firm responsible for intervention in case of hazards F or sites with extended infrastructure standard professional alarm fire CCTV systems are used In that case the system server and site controller is the integrator of systems mentioned above including also power and air conditioning systems ioptiJm _ 225\225 __    Figure 7 CSM with security module X SUMMARY The integrated CMS supervises presently power and air conditioning systems in app 10 000 sites of the operator As a crucial element of monitoring system of services end-to-end CMS has a great influence on providing its accessibility and quality what has a direct impact on the operator incomes Putting into operation of CMS for so great number of sites allowed to achieve significant reduction of OPEX costs In this situation the operator made a decision to equip all new and modernized sites with external site controllers which enable connection to CMS of the entire infrastructure on supervised sites At the same time research work will be conducted on CMS development focused on 225 Extension of site controllers with security modules with maximal use of existing sources 225 Introduction of automatic energy meters readings after positive results of pilot installation 225 Designing and introducing a prediction module of energy autonomy of sites and expert module of a decision-making support All solutions presented in this paper accepted and implemented in operator network proved that from operational and business point of view implementation of CMS to monitoring of technical infrastructure was the right and justified choice REFERENCES 1 ETSI TR 102 336 2004 Environmental Engineering EE Power and cooling system control and monitoring guidance 2 P.Paschke P.Klis J.Grunt Integrated Management System for Technical Infrastructure of Telecom Sites INTELEC 2007 Proceedings October 2007 


able to narrow down the location of the shared secret to a set with   S P  012 elements on average   S  denotes the number of elements in the set S   Proof  The probability of a false positive error in identifying the User is the probability that the User has randomly chosen a symbol from m E that happens to be in the set of valid symbols m E or equivalently a shared secret that happens to map into m E for a given session with randomness factor  The probability of this happening is       m m m E E S S P        On the other hand, having observed the entered symbol e the attacker is able to infer that the shared secret is in the set             m m E s e S s S of all possible shared secret values that map on the actual entered symbol. The space of possible values for the shared secret is thus reduced from the set S to the subset m S with     S P S m  012   elements   The result of the lemma above is true on average In general, the number of elements in the set m S will vary depending on the entered symbol e some entered symbols will correspond to more possible values of the shared secret than other entered symbols, e.g. Sobrado and Birget, 2005\or those relations that map each entered symbol to the same number of possible shared secrets, the result of the lemma will be exact, not just on average Another important observation is that the proof of the lemma is valid even if the entered symbol includes random user errors, as proposed in Hopper and Blum \(2000\ the protocol is such that the authentication allows for up to Z random errors among the elements of the entered symbol e this will result in a larger set m S Even if the user actually makes fewer errors in a given session, the set m S will necessarily include all the possible shared secrets that might match all but Z of the elements of the entered symbol e At the same time, the Verifier must be ready to accept as valid sessions with up to Z errors hence the probability of a false positive will also increase. The proof above does not need to assume that all the elements of the entered symbol e are correct, but only that the authentication is successful hence the lemma holds for any tolerance to errors Z   Lemma 2  Given k sessions of communication between the User and the Verifier, where the shared secret remains unchanged for all k sessions; given that in each session the User proves her identity to the Verifier with probability of false positive error not to exceed P given a set of possible shared secrets S the Attacker is able to narrow down the location of the shared secret to a subset with   S P k  012 elements  Proof  To conduct such an attack, the Attacker needs to capture and store the set of entered symbols j e and the randomness factors j  for each authentication session j of the k sessions captured. Let  j m S be the sets that map onto each of the entered symbols j e  The shared secret is in each of the  j m S sets, hence it will also be in the intersection     k j E s e S s S j j m j k j j m 1       1         Based on Lemma 1, the probability that the shared secret is in any given set  j m S is equal to the false positive probability P Because the randomness factor is different for each session, the sets  j m S are independently random distributed, so the probability that the shared secret is in the intersection of  j m S  will be the product of the probabilities that that shared secret is in each of the sets, i.e k P Hence the intersection set has   S P k  012 elements   Theorem 1  To gather sufficient information to uniquely determine the shared secret, the Attacker needs to capture      P S k o log   log sessions is the ceiling function, returning the smallest integer greater than the argument of the function  Proof  The proof is trivial when applying Lemma 2 The average number of possible shared secrets that match all the observed entered symbols over o k  captured sessions is 1     012 S P o k hence the actual shared secret can be determined exactly   The theorem above describes how many sessions the Attacker must capture to collect sufficient information to uniquely determine the shared secret It makes no claim about whether the Attacker has sufficient computing power at her disposal to actually determine the shared secret Most authentication schemes are based on NP complete or NP hard problems with a search space that is exponential with respect to the length of the shared secret. On the other hand, if the attacker has Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


collected the needed number of sessions and if she has sufficient computing power to perform an exhaustive search in a reasonable amount of time, the difficulty of solving the problem is irrelevant We can now use the framework above to evaluate authentication interfaces proposed in the literature. For any of the proposed interfaces to be secure, they need to exhibit either a sufficient computational complexity or to require the capture of a sufficiently large number of sessions \(or both  5. Application of theory to reported authentication schemes  In this section we analyze a few particular cases of authentication procedures. We first evaluate how much computing power an attacker is likely to have available, then discuss the robustness of the proposed protocols in view of the theory we presented. We consider both the number of observations the scheme is able to withstand, as well as the time required for an exhaustive search of the space of shared secrets  5.1. What is sufficient computing power  An attacker having sufficient computing power to conduct exhaustive searches over the shared secret space is able to circumvent the NP hardness of the one-way mapping. Fortunately for the Attacker, the problem of searching for the shared secret values that could have led to a set of observed entered symbols is by its nature highly parallel, and can be farmed out to an army of computers in an efficient manner. The amount of data to be sent to the worker nodes in such an army would include the definition of the alphabets A and B and the list of observed entered symbols and randomness factors for the 5-10 eavesdropping sessions captured, a very small data set Such a brute force attack is greatly aided by technological progress. The computing power of devices is increasing as the cost of computing devices is decreasing. Even more, by using self replicating virus programs to take over unprotected computers attached to the Internet, Attackers can marshal the resources of armies of computer zombies to carry out nefarious activities for almost no cost to the Attacker In 2002 a 64 bit RC5 key was cracked in 1757 days in a distributed manner using donated processing power \(equivalent to 32,504 800MHz Apple PowerBook G4\g to Distributed.net \(2007 With a typical CPU speed of 1 GHz, an army of 10,000 zombies, assuming an admittedly optimistic processing speed of one shared secret evaluation per CPU cycle, today s Attackers would be able to process 18 10 shared secrets per day. The next section considers what the implications of this processing power are on several protocols proposed to date  5.2. Recommendations based on theoretical findings  As discussed in the introduction, the shared secret can be protected either by not disclosing sufficient information about it, or by making the shared secret computationally difficult to find from the disclosed information. Table 1 below summarizes results on the two considerations. To be able to realistically hide the shared secret, the schemes would need to withstand hundreds of repeated observations, for example in the case of daily use over a period of a few months, the standard recommended lifetime of a shared secret. None of the protocols reported to date are able to withstand more than ten observations without disclosing the full information about the shared secret to the Attacker Regarding the computational complexity, all but the Hopper and Blum scheme allow the Attacker to conduct a fast search of all the possible shared secrets. Armed with all the information about the shared secret and able to conduct an exhaustive search in less than an hour, the Attacker can uniquely locate the shared secret for all but the Hopper and Blum scheme. For this last scheme, the attacker is still able to capture all the information needed to identify the shared secret, but the complexity of the Reference or description  of possible shared secrets Probability of false positive of sessions needed to capture shared secret Time needed for exhaustive search Strong password  traditional N=10 4 10 1 6  1 N 1 0 Matsumoto, 1996 27 1/3 3 0 Sobrado and Birget, 2005 10 13 0.001  5 1 second Strong password  ideal  10 16 0.001  6 15 minutes Hopper and Blum, 2000 10 25 0.001  10 30,000 years No value given: using a conservative P 0.001 A strong password requires at least one digit, one symbol and one upper case letter Assuming some to be discovered eavesdropping-resistant scheme with excellent user friendly capabilities  Table 1. Robustness of authentication interfaces to eavesdropping attacks. A scheme is secure if the number of session needed to be captured and the time to perform an exhaustive search exceeds the attacker s resources Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


search space will prevent her from actually locating the shared secret within a reasonable timeframe As illustrated in Table 1, the main result of the paper is that the security of the schemes is in the complexity of the space of shared secrets S not in information hiding. Information that can be gathered in fewer than ten repeated observations is not well hidden. Regardless of the type of one-way mapping the User s credentials can be easily compromised if the Attacker can complete an exhaustive search of the space of shared secrets S within a reasonable time frame. On the other hand, if S is sufficiently complex to prevent a brute force search in a reasonable amount of time, the Attacker is unable to determine the shared secret even though she may have all the information needed to uniquely identify it Another important result is that the amount of information transmitted by the User to the Verifier in any given session has no ultimate implications on the ability of the scheme to withstand repeated observations by the Attacker. A user could be asked to make very simple decisions \(binary choices select items among a large number of possibilities An interface with increased complexity of choice \(in the m E space\will be more resistant to guesses, but will not be more resistant to repeated eavesdropping attacks. The added complexity in m E  leads to a lower probability of false positive, but will also disclose the shared secret in fewer observations. Although, this appears to pose a valuable tradeoff, a closer analysis shows that this tradeoff is very shallow. For example decreasing the acceptable probability of false positives from 0.001 to 0.0001 in the example above will disclose a strong password in only 4 observations instead of 6. An Attacker who can capture 4 sessions will be equally able to capture 6 sessions if needed. Hence the tradeoff between probability of error and robustness to eavesdropping is not worth making. The best approach is to have the lowest probability of false positives, limited by the usability of the interface \(usability introduces a tradeoff that is worth considering, because increased complexity in the m E space leads to exponentially decreasing usability With these two conclusions in mind, we propose the following guidelines for devising an interface resistant to eavesdropping 1  Use a space of possible shared secrets as complex as the user can handle. The space should include at least 22 10 possible shared secrets \(tens of years of computing time for an exhaustive search 2  Use a one-way mapping as simple as possible. This mapping does nothing to hide information from the Attacker, so it can be designed only to maximize usability 3  Use an interface that requires as much identifying information as possible in one session, limited by the user s cognitive and speed abilities. The higher the amount of information exchanged, the lower the probability of false positives. The Attacker will receive more information in each captured session, but she will not be able to exhaustively search the space of shared secrets to make use of this information, if the space S is complex enough  Even by following the guidelines above, it is unlikely that the resulting scheme will be truly user friendly. All of the schemes analyzed above have serious usability issues, because they make the authentication process more complex and significantly more time consuming than the traditional passwords; yet they all provide minimal gains in robustness. To transcend the low usability and the low security a paradigm shift is needed There are three ways to allow both robustness to attacks and more user friendly interfaces 1  Invent a new type of interface that would allow the User to handle a much more complex space of shared secrets, without much more cognitive and memory effort than the current password scheme OR 2  Invent a new type of interface that would prevent the Attacker from using computing power to search the space of shared secrets Such schemes intended to prevent automated agents from impersonating human users have been used in other types of applications \(see Completely Automated Public Turing Test to Tell Computers and Humans Apart www.captcha.net R 3  Design interfaces that combine the shared secret with specialized hardware or biometrics. The added computing power that the User can carry in hardware tokens or in out of band authentication devices is a way to counteract the extensive computing power the Attacker has at her disposal. This can include the use of one-time passwords \(e.g transmitted over a cell phone or generated on-the-fly in a smart token  While we await innovations in 1 and 2 above, the only feasible solution for now is to focus on combing shared secrets with specialized hardware \(tokens, out of band devices or biometrics\s we mentioned before, this has the drawback of higher costs and more limited availability. Based on the theoretical Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


framework we developed in this paper, the approach of combining only shared secrets and standard hardware is simply unable to deliver both resistance to eavesdropping attacks and reasonable user friendliness at the same time  6. Conclusion  We presented a theoretical framework that evaluates the robustness of protocols intended to be resistant to eavesdropping attacks. Such protocols can attempt to either not disclose information about the User s shared secret, or to make it difficult to locate the shared secret, even after collecting sufficient information about it. After reviewing protocols reported in the literature, we conclude that even the most robust protocols \(those to the point where usability is a concern\ are only able to withstand ten observations before the attacker has sufficient information to uncover the shared secret On the other hand, authentication interfaces that use complex shared secrets could be secure even if the Attacker has captured all the needed information to determine the shared secret.  Having collected the required number of sessions, the Attacker will now be limited by computing power, if the space of shared secrets is complex enough. The drawback of complex shared secrets is the exponentially decreasing usability of the resulting interface. As such, interfaces that are both secure and usable can only be devised by combining shared secrets with other authentication technologies \(biometrics or specialized hardware\ multiple factor authentication systems  7. References  APWG. \(2008\Phishing Activity Trends, January 2008. Retrieved June 11, 2008, from www.apwg.org/reports/apwg_report_jan_2008.pdf  Bedworth, M. and Allison, C. \(2008\periments with a Visual Probabilistic One-Time Password Authentication System Proc. SAM 2008   Brostoff, S., & Sasse, M. \(2000\re Passfaces more usable than passwords? A field trial investigation Proc. HCI 2000 pp. 405-424 Springer Verlag  Brostoff, S. and Sasse, M.  \(2003\"Ten strikes and you're out": Increasing the number of login attempts can improve password usability CHI 2003 Workshop on Human-Computer Interact. and Security Systems   Distributed.net. \(2007\Project RC5.  Retrieved Jan 27, 2008, from http://www.distributed.net/rc5  Hoanca, B. and Mock, K. \(2007 Phishing Attacks and Countermeasures: Implications for Enterprise Information Security in D. Khadraoui and F Herrmann \(Eds.\dvances in Enterprise Information Technology Security. IGI, Hershey, PA  Hopper, N. and Blum, M.  \(2000 A Secure HumanComputer Authentication Scheme CMU Tech Report CMU-CS-00-139  Kumar, M., Garfinkel, T., Boneh, D., and Winograd T.  \(2007\. Reducing shoulder-surfing by using gazebased password entry Proc. SOUPS 07 vol. 229 ACM Press, New York, NY, 13-19  Matsumoto, T. \(1996\uman-computer cryptography: An attempt 3rd ACM CCCS pp. 6875, New Delhi, March 1996  Naor, M.  and Pinkas, B. \(1997\isual authentication and identification. In Proc. Advances in Cryptology pp. 322 336  Ross, B., Jackson, C., Miyake, N., Boneh, D. and Mitchell, J.C. \(2005\ Stronger Password Authentication Using Browser Extensions, in Proc 14th Usenix Security   Roth, V., Richter, K., and Freidinger, R. \(2004 PIN-entry method resilient against shoulder surfing In Proceedings of the 11th ACM CCS 04 ACM Press, New York, NY, 236-245  Sobrado, L. and Birget, J.-C. \(2005 Shoulder surfing resistant graphical passwords Retrieved January 27, 2008, from http://clam.rutgers.edu/~birget/grPssw/srgp.pdf  Sobrado, L. and Birget, J.-C. \(2002\raphical passwords The Rutgers Scholar vol 4, 2002 Retrieved January 25, 2008 at http://rutgersscholar.rutgers.edu/volume04/sobrbirg/s obrbirg.htm  Tan, D. S., Keyani, P., and Czerwinski, M. \(2005 Spy-resistant keyboard: more secure password entry on public touch screen displays. In Proc  19th CHISIG ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, vol. 122, 1-10  Tari, F., Ozok, A. A., and Holden, S. H. \(2006 comparison of perceived and real shoulder-surfing risks between alphanumeric and graphical passwords Proc SOUPS '06 vol. 149. ACM Press, New York NY, 56-66  Wiedenbeck, S., Waters, J., Sobrado, L., and Birget J. \(2006\esign and evaluation of a shouldersurfing resistant graphical password scheme Proc AVI '06 ACM Press, New York, NY, 177-184 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Test Environment 


Implant Application 1 Low level analog signal Stimulation Sensor interface Signal digitized and formatted Transmitter Application  receiver controller with MAC RF encoded packets of data Data packets organised into function Change response or cause direct stimulation 


Product Design and Manufacture 225 Work with end product manufacturer Each design is unique 225 No off the peg solution 225 Thorough testing during product development 225 Work with component suppliers 225 World class manufacturing capability 225 Post manufacture test and burn in 225 Reliable parts shipped on time NO SURPRISES NO CHANGES NOTHING EXCITINGI 


Module Encapsulated ZL70101 Crystal Matching network Antenna connection 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


