Investigate the Social Actor Model of ICT Use in Organizations   IpKin Anthony Wong Institute For Tourism Studies anthonywong@ift.edu.mo Patricia Steinhoff University of Hawaii at Manoa steinhof@hawaii.edu   Abstract  This research advances the study of social factors in information systems through an empirical exploration of communication and information technology \(ICT\ use as hypothesized in the social actor model proposed by Lamb and Kling [1  T h e  
findings support the social actor model in the context of professional organizations, and reveal that individual characteristics play a more prominent role in use of technology than organizational structural properties do. In addition, the results suggest that the social actor model can be conceptualized more parsimoniously in three dimensions and can explain ICT use more precisely by considering moderating and mediating effects   1. Introduction  Studies in organizational research have consistently shown that organizational structural 
properties and individual user behaviors not only can shape the use of technology, but also can be shaped by the technology \(e.g  d [1 lth o u gh contemporary information systems literature offers a myriad of causal models of information and communication technology \(ICT\ use from the deterministic information systems \(IS stream \(e.g d [5 o n e of t h e m s e e m s to be able to portray a good pictur e of technology use in a rich organizational context. While the social models of the technology research stream \(e.g  d 
 pu t s e riou s e m p h as i s on th e s o cial an d organizational settings as the premise of IS research they do not provide empirical evidence. The problems lead to inconsistent and imprecise findings in both streams Although Lamb and Kling [1 pt to bridg e  the gap by redefining ICT users as social actors in a rich social setting with some grounded qualitative data support, their model is still inadequate and imprecise. For example, the model suggests that ICT use can shape and be shaped by organizational 
resources, but it does not point to when, by how much, for which type of technology, and in what measures the criterion effect\(s\would take place Another problem in IS literature is the lack of measurement models on different types of ICT use As a result, research on ICT use tends to be idiosyncratic in that a large body of work claims to discover certain patterns of ICT use intentions and behaviors, but the results only apply narrowly to a specific form of technology use. This leads to more unanswered questions 
This paper explores ICT use in professional organizations through the social actor model conceptual framework proposed by Lamb and Kling  e  dev e lop a s cale in corporatin g s e v e ral  dimensions of ICT use that includes some measures specific to our study population and employ it for an empirical test of the four major dimensions of the social actor m Bas e d on th e f i n d i n gs  w e  propose some modifications to the social actor model  2. Review of Literature  2.1. The Paradox of Information Systems 
Research on ICT Use  The information systems \(IS\re includes two dominant streams of research that incorporate social variables: deterministic models and social models d [10]. T h e deter m i n is tic  m odels are rooted in the positivist research paradigm. This school emphasizes cognitive processing that is involved during decision making about technology adoption and use at the individual level, including research in the realms of peer influence \(e.g   d [13 tech n o lo gy ac ceptan ce \(e.g 4], [13  
an ch an n e l ex pa n s io n 15 s o cial in f o r m atio n processing theory d ex perien ce an d m e dia  richness \(e.g d [18 T h es e m odels f o c u s o n  users attitudes and perceptions of the media and technologies as well as the opinions and behaviors of others. This school of thought believes that use of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


technology is deterministic in that users perceptions and attitudes would lead to favorable or unfavorable intentional and behavioral outcomes Critics argue that this body of work is individualistic and technologically deterministic or technocentric  T h ese stu d ies pa y l ittle  attention to the context and content of the communication e r cr itics arg u e t h at research needs to seek interrelationships of a system rather than individualistic things in the system [20 an d   e rs believ e t h at th e in teractio n a n d mutual influence between users, organizations, and ICT shape the process of adoption, use, and effect of ICT [6 3 d 7   These criticisms led to the emergence of the social models of technology including structurational socio-technical network, and other related social models. This research stream follows the tradition of the interpretive research paradigm. The structurational approaches emphasize the complex relationships between users \(as actors\eir organizational environment, and the technology through a series of interactions over time. Users and organizations not only can shape the use of ICT but also can be shaped by it. This mutual influence relationship is complex and can only be understood through the social context \(e.g  6 d   How e v e r, as L a m b an d Kling 1] an d  Bouwman et al n t ou t  su c h st u d i e s are somewhat vague and indeterminate in nature Because of the mutual influences between variables as well as the highly contextualized premise, it is hard to distinguish causes and effects l s o  studies in these streams are largely conceptual raising the need for empirical grounding. Lamb and Kling m p t to addr ess th e l iteratu re g a p  through their social actor model of technology  2.2. The Social Actor Model  The traditional views of ICT use have been reconceptualized by Lamb and Kling ding the perspectives of social construction \(e.g d   in stitution a l t h eor y e.g 23 26  ste m  theory \(e.g o cial tech n o lo gy  f r o m t h e w o rk of Kling and associates \(e.g 8 an d 28  d  the work of the structurational models \(e.g d  L a m b an d Kli n g  prov ide a con ceptu al definition of a social actor as an organizational entity whose interactions are simultaneously enabled and constrained by the socio-technical affiliations and environments of the firm, its members, and its industry p. 218\ors are not merely ICT users, for they \(1 have conflicting and ambiguous requirements about the activities they perform, and the socially legitimate ways in which to perform their work p. 218\ \(2\ have little control over their ICT choices and usage because they act as a collective unit, \(3\e ICTs to interact with other actors at various levels within and among organizations, \(4 shape their identities as organization members and representatives as well as facilitate the presentation of their professional competence through the use of ICTs. These definitions are conceptualized into the following dimensions: organization affiliations environment structures, interpersonal interactions and self identities. These four facets are integral individual and structural properties that play a role in shaping actors behaviors related to ICT use  3. Data and Method  The data for this analysis are from a national survey of Japanese Studies in both American and Canadian colleges and universities, libraries, and research institutions. The project was initiated in the early 1980s as an effort to create a comprehensive directory of Japan specialists and Japanese Studies institutions in North America. The data were collected in mid 1990s and again in mid 2000s Extensive survey data on the work practices and needs of Japan specialists in North America were collected in connection with the second and third editions of the directory and used by the second author of this paper. This paper uses the data from the most recent survey, which contains extensive information related to ICT use  3.1. Sample and Data Collection  The dataset consists of four units of analysis Japan specialists, Japanese libraries, Japanese Studies programs, and Japanese Studies institutions. The focus of the study was on academic programs in Japanese Studies offered by colleges and universities and related support institutions such as libraries and research institutes, and on people who work professionally in the field based on their expertise on Japan. Thus the context is persons who work primarily in professional bureaucracies.  Japan specialists are highly trained scholars and administrative staff whose work is related to Japan Even though they work in the field related to Japan they are by no means Japanese This paper analyzes the data at the individual level \(i.e., specialists\e the objective of the study is to investigate ICT among individual actors Data from the other three units of analysis \(libraries programs, and institutions\ are combined into Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


measures at the institutional level that are added to the specialist data in order to examine all four components of the social actor model. The data for specialists, programs, and libraries come from the study s own survey data. The measures for institutions were developed using standard sources of data on academic institutions The primary data collection method utilized online forms and email communications, but these were later supplemented with other means, such as paper-based forms sent via fax, email, or regular mail, in order to reach additional respondents. The dataset contained responses from 1,426 specialists However, 501 specialists did not complete relevant portions of the questionnaire, leaving a sample of 925 specialists for the present study For the institutional data \(e.g., enrollment size faculty size, selectivity, and degrees awarded\we used data from a national mailing list of colleges and universities in the United States, supplemented with information from Peterson s Guide to Four Year Colleges, the Gourman Re  Ne w s a n d World Report [31 d inf o r m ation collected f r o m  the institution s web site for Canadian colleges and universities. Institutional data were added for each specialist with an institutional affiliation, for a total of 152 institutions. Independent scholars were coded 0 for these variables  3.2. Instrument  The survey instrument was designed by a joint effort of the Japan Foundation and an extension of the previous research conducted by the second author. The questionnaires for both institutions and specialists were available since the first study of the research in 1986. The institutional-level module included information about their courses, degree programs, the program s own library holdings, staff doctoral student, and more. The individual-level module includes socio-demographic, attitudinal, and behavioral questions, such as whether or not respondents used a particular technology. The instruments were modified in the second and the latest study to include changes to the field. These changes primarily reflected the expansion of online resources over the past decade and their impact on how specialists obtained resources and carried out their work. Indeed, the lis t of technologies available to the specialists that were included in the study has doubled in the last decade. Many of the rarely used computer tools in the 1990s, such as e-mail specialized databases, and online media have gradually gained wide acceptance since the advent of the Internet. A total of 49 technology use items were presented as yes/no statements within broad question sets about their use for research, teaching, or generally keeping up in their field  3.3. Measurement of ICT Use  The central thrust of this paper is to investigate ICT use in professional organizations by identifying a set of reliable and valid measures of ICT use and then evaluating the use of these measures. We first develop a multi-item scale that encompasses a comprehensive measure of ICT use. The 49 ICT use items were first organized into categories based on their content. Exploratory factory analysis was not utilized in this stage because the items are dichotomous and the solution was not interpretable Confirmatory factor analysis with asymptotic-free estimator \(robust maximum likelihood\as used to test the assignment of the items e d on f a ctor interpretability and model fit indices, a seven-factor solution using 37 items was adopted \(RMSEA 0.07, SRMR = 0.07, CFI = 0.90\he indices indicated an appropriate model fit; hence a tenable ICT measurement model. The seven factors retained in the solution represented seven categories \(or types of ICT commonly used in organizations communications e.g., email, discussion group, and list serve online news and journals  word processing  information portals e.g., online databases and websites data management e.g personal databases and spreadsheets multimedia and entertainment e.g., music, video, pictures\d  information presentation and analysis e.g., maintain website, present teaching material, and analyze research data\he factors were then transformed into latent variable scores, which represent the unbiased composite score for the corresponding observed indicators Th e s e v e n e x trapolated latent variable scores were factor analyzed \(with principal component analysis and varimax rotation in order to develop the final ICT scale. The findings indicated a one component solution with factor loadings 0.67 or above. Coefficient alpha s 0.91 which exhibited strong scale reliability. In sum, the seven-item ICT scale was able to retain 65% of the variance of the latent ICT use construct  3.4. Test of the Social Actor Model  The social actor model conceptualizes that ICT use is directly related to individual and organizational characteristics pertaining to four core dimensions identity, interaction, affiliation, and environment. We identified 20 independent variables that are related to these four dimensions, as shown in Table 1. These Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


variables are hypothesized to have a direct influence on actors use of technologies, except for the online identity presentation variable, which is modeled as a covariate because of its unknown relationship with ICT use. A series of preliminary analyses \(not shown here\plored the relationships of the independent variables on each of the seven ICT indicators separately B a sed on th e in it ial f i n d ing s a n d subsequent elaboration, mediators and moderators are included in the present research model. This was tested with structural equation modeling using LISREL  Table 1 Indicators of the four dimensions of the social actor model in the context of inquiry Dimension Variable Identify Gender, age, culture, language competence, professional experience occupation, employment status online identify presentation Interaction Social network size, perceived utility of contact, perceived supportive attitude, collaborative effort Affiliation Affiliated membership, interorganization relationship Environment Program size, program funding program resource, institution funding institution competitiveness institution size, institution type  4. Findings  The results, which are shown in Table 2, represent the final research model of the analysis. This model includes parameter estimates that have significant direct, mediating, and moderating effects on the ICT use criterion construct. The moderators are represented in the model as interaction terms. The table also shows the effect of the mediator perceived contact utility on the path coefficients that are shown in parentheses. The fit statistics of the research model indicate an appropriate fit between the data and the hypothesized model \(RMSEA = 0.07, SRMR 0.03, CFI = 0.96\he model explains ICT use fairly well and is able to account for 45 percent of the variance of the response measure \(R 2 0.45  4.1. Identity Dimension  Lamb and Kling  m odel conceptualizes that actors avowed and ascribed identity shape their use of ICTs. Of the seven hypothesized identity factors, age, culture, language competence, and employment status are significant predictors of actors technology use. The findings suggest that younger Japan specialists who have a strong western cultural background, good Japanese language ability, and/or are currently employed utilize significantly more technology at work than specialists who do not have these socio-demographic characteristics. In addition, actors cultural background effect is conditioned by their language proficiency. This result sheds light on the inconsistent initial findings regarding the culture effect, in that specialists with more eastern cultural background generally have better Japanese language skills than their more western counterparts \(Pearson correlation coefficient p 0.001\but Japanese language proficiency is also highly related to ICT use, particularly because some of the ICT measures involve the use of Japanese language resources Specialists who have a strong western background use more technology once the interaction between cultural background and Japanese language ability is controlled. In sum, individuals socio-demographics account for most of the variance in the model \(R 2  0.32  Japan specialists age and their Japanese language competence explain a fair amount of variability of ICT use. Indeed, these two demographic characteristics consistently influence every aspect of their ICT use when they are tested with the seven ICT indicators in a series of separate analyses \(not shown here\he usual education and class-based digital divide does not apply in the study because Japan specialists are highly trained professionals who possess the necessary skills to operate any computer applications, as observed in most professional bureaucracies. On the other hand, specialists age language ability, cultural background, and occupation significantly influence the extent to which Japan specialists utilize technologies at work. Language competence is particularly important for Japan specialists who wish to utilize word processing and information portal services because some components of the measurement of these technologies demand a fair amount of Japanese reading and writing skills. Specialists who have a strong Western background and/or non-faculty members are also found to use more technologies than their counterparts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Table 2 Results of the research model: The influences of identity, interaction, a ffiliation, and environment factors on ICT Use Independent Variable Path Coefficient Identity Dimension  Age -0.35 Cultural background 0.32 Language competence 0.19 Culture × language 0.35 Employment status  \(employed 0.05   Online identity  presentation a 0.13 Interaction Dimension  Social network size 0.39 Perceived contact utility b 0.41 Perceived supportive attitude 0.05   Collaborative effort 0.06 0.35 Affiliation Dimension  Affiliated membership 0.14 Inter-organization relationship 0.07 Environment Dimension  Program resource 0.21 Institution funding 0.34 Institution competitiveness 0.13 Inst. type × inst. size 0.10 Note: Standardized path coefficients that are significant are presented; numbers in parentheses are path coefficients for the variable perceived contact utility   p < 0.10;  * p < 0.05;  ** p < 0.01;  *** p < 0.001 a The variable is modeled as a covariate b The variable is modeled as mediator for social network size  collaborative effort and affiliated membership R 2  0.41  4.2. Interaction and Affiliation Dimensions  The Interaction dimension of the research model defines actors ICT use as a consequence of their social network size, perception of the usefulness of network contacts, perception of the supportive attitude of their discipline, and the breadth of collaborative effort they engage in. The Affiliation dimension, however, conceptualizes that individuallevel affiliated membership and organizational-level  inter-organization relationship filiated relationships play a role in members technology use Factors of the interaction dimension explain a fair amount of variance of ICT use \(R 2 differential is 0.15\, while variables of the affiliation dimension explain little to no variance of the model. The final model suggests that actors perception of the utility of their network contacts fully mediates the influence of the size of their social network, while the number of academic and professional memberships they maintain partially mediates the means by which they collaborate with other actors. In sum, Japan specialists technology use is a direct consequence of their perceptions of how useful their relationships with other Japan specialists and with Japanese scholars in Japan are \(e.g., to provide introduction and references, to critique their work, to collaborate and present their research, to keep them abreast of developments of the field, to network, to provide research materials, and more\. Hence, contact utility seems to be perceived by specialists as a value proposition or a driving force of technology use Although the results for the Affiliation dimension are weak overall, the one strong finding shows that the affiliated memberships of Japanese specialists have an effect on ICT use when the mediator of contact utility is incorporated. That aspect of the Affiliation dimension is actually measuring the individual affiliations of Japan specialists, and thus is another measure of their Interactions. The second construct of Inter-organization relationships measures institutional factors that are related to the measures of the Environment dimension. This suggests that unless there are better measures of what the social actor model calls Affiliation, or unless such measures are more important in other types of organizational environments, Affiliation can be subsumed within the Interaction and Environment dimensions, thereby simplifying the model itself  4.3. Environment Dimension  The Environment dimension of the research model conceptualizes members ICT utilization as a function of variables at the program level and institution level. However, the seven hypothesized organizational structural properties explain little to no variance of ICT use. The research model reveals that dedicated program resources and institutions  competitive culture are significant predictors in the expected direction, while institutions funding is significant but in the opposite direction. The institution type-by-size interaction term is also significant. The findings suggest that actors who belong to small private institutions use more ICTs than those who belong to large private institutions however, the relationship is reversed in public institutions. In addition, the negative relationships of perceived supportive attitude of the respondent s discipline, inter-organization relationships, and institutional funding are important findings, as they may suggest that actors would turn to technology for Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


solutions when confronted with problems such as resource segregation and lack of institutional support  5. Discussion  First, the findings generally confirm that the use of ICTs can be influenced by the four actor dimensions. However, in the case of Japanese Studies, individual-level factors explain the variability of technology use substantially better than the organizational-level factors do. The results are reasonable because Japan specialists enjoy a great degree of job flexibility and autonomy in an academic institution setting or a professional bureaucracy, as Mintzberg calls it. Si m ilar  studies need to be done to identify the types of organizational settings in which the environment dimension may play a larger role Second, while our findings generally support the Lamb and Kling s social actor m th e y call  into question whether the Affiliation dimension really is needed. One of the challenges to the research is the fuzzy conceptual distinction between affiliation and environment in the social actor model. For instance an actor s affiliated environment can be categorized as either affiliation or environment. Lamb has acknowledged that these two dimensions share a great deal of commonalities. Lamb noted that institution-level variables could be conceptualized in either dimension \(R. Lamb, personal communication January 13, 2006\fortunately, both Kling and Lamb passed away before the present research was completed; otherwise, they might have provided more details distinguishing the two facets. The current study offers some insights into the problem as noted above. Thus indicators for the affiliation dimension found little effect of either individual-level or inter-organizational-level affiliated membership on ICT use. However, our individual-level affiliation variables can be re-specified as elements of the interaction dimension, while inter-organizationallevel affiliation variables can be reclassified as components of the environment dimension; hence this configuration would provide a more parsimonious conceptual definition for the social actor model  6. Conclusion  The goal of the present research is to validate and extend the social actor model posited by Lamb and Kling rough e m pirical ev iden ce. T h is i n t u rn helps to bridge the gap between the deterministic and social streams of information systems research because the social actor model provides a general theoretical framework that conceptualizes the relationships of individual- and organizational-level factors on members ICT use in the context of contemporary institutions. Lamb and Kling s  social actor m i n e s  u s e o f techn o log i es a s sh aped by four general dimensions of individual and organizational factors including organization members or actors mographic and background characteristics, interpersonal interaction properties individual-level and inter-organizational-level affiliations, and contextual properties of the workplace. The study finds support for the model by empirically testing factors underlying the four social actor facets. The empirical results provide quantitative measures of the relationships between the postulated effects and ICT use The results suggest that the four dimensions of the social actor model can be re-constituted more parsimoniously into three dimensions that incorporate the content of the affiliation dimension. In line with this theoretical implication, the present study also suggests that ICT use is more an individual-oriented decision than an organization enabled or constrained consequence in the context of professional organizations, but this needs to be tested in other types of organizations The investigation also uncovers a number of interesting findings which extend the social actor model and the social technology research stream First, the study demonstrates that some of the wellstudied variables \(e.g., size of social network collaborative effort, and size of professional membership\have indirect rather than direct effects on ICT use because they are mediated by other factors \(e.g., perceived contact utility\. A more important discovery is the moderating effects which condition the characteristics of other variables Moderator effects have been largely ignored in the social technology literature. This is a problem inherited from the dominant qualitative methodological approaches within this body of work The results of the present study add to information systems research by suggesting that some inconsistent findings in the literature may be explained by moderating effects rather than as a consequence of some complex and reciprocal interactions between actors and the context, in business processes such as the process of innovation diffusion, as some researchers suggest \(e.g    3 d 23   A further contribution of the study is the development of a comprehensive ICT scale that includes seven distinct components of ICT use Although the scale used for this analysis is specific to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


the study population and includes a number of highly specialized ICT indicators concerning Japanese language and Japanese Studies resources, we are currently developing a more general scale that can be used or adapted for different organizational contexts In sum, this research clarifies and extends the social actor model and the social technology stream by offering a more precise causal model of how actors utilize technologies in the context of professional organizations. The present study also illustrates a means to investigate the social stream of information systems research using quantitative methods and an ICT scale. The results help provide a better understanding of the social actor model and contribute to social information systems research by answering how, by whom, by how much, and in what measure ICT use takes shape  7. Limitation  The current study did not examine the mutual influence between the independent variables and the ICT dependent variable, as this would have required longitudinal data. While the study did have longitudinal data from the earlier data collection only about half of the sample was represented at both time points, because of an unusual amount of generational turnover in the field of Japanese Studies during the decade between the two studies. And although virtually all of the 1995 questions were replicated in the 2005 study, advances in technology had necessitated the addition of a large number of new variables. Hence there simply was not sufficient correspondence between the two datasets to support a true longitudinal study to sort out mutual influences And although some further exploration of nonrecursive structural modeling would be interesting, it is beyond the scope of this paper and indeed is not recommended in the statistics literature Moreover, the mutual influences that have been commonly suggested by many informatics models are imprecise; our findings suggest that mediation and moderation effects may better explain ICT use in organizations  8. Acknowledgments  The authors would like to express their appreciation for the support of the Japan Foundation and the University of Hawaii  9. References    R L a m b an d R Kl i n g Reco n c ep t u al i z i n g u s ers as social actors in information systems research MIS Quarterly vol. 27, pp. 197-235, 2003 2 S. R. Ba rle y T he a lig nm e n t of te c hnol og y a nd structure through roles and networks Administrative Science Quarterly vol. 35, pp. 61-103, 1990 3 W  J  O r lik ow sk i U s i ng te c hnol ogy a nd c ons t itut i ng  structures: A practice lens for studying technology in organizations Organization Science vol. 11, p. 404 2000 4 F. D  D a v i s   P e r c e i v e d us e f ulne s s  pe rc e i v e d e a s e of  use, and user acceptance of information technology MIS Quarterly vol. 13, pp. 318-340, 1989 5 V   V e n k atesh   M. G  Mo rris G  B. Dav i s, an d F D Davis, "User acceptance of information technology Toward a unified view MIS Quarterly vol. 27, pp 425-478, 2003 6 W  J  O r lik ow s k i T he dua lity o f te c hnol og y   Rethinking the concept of technology in organizations Organization Science vol. 3, pp. 398427, 1992 7 W  J. Orlik ow s k i, J. Ya tes, K. Ok am ura, and M   Fujimoto, "Shaping electronic communication: The metastructuring of technology in the context of use in Shaping Organization Form: Communication Connection, and Community G. DeSanctis and J Fulk, Eds. Thousand Oaks: CA: Sage, 1999, pp. 133172  R Kl i n g S o c i a l an al y s es o f co mp u t i n g T h eo ret i c al  perspectives in recent empirical research ACM Computing Surveys vol. 12, pp. 61-110, 1980 9 H  Bouw m a n, B. v a n de n H o of L. v a n de W ijng a e r t and J. van Dijk Information and Communication Technology in Organizations Thousand Oaks, CA Sage, 2005 10  G  D e Sa nc tis a nd M. S   Poole   C a p turi ng the  complexity in advanced technology use: Adaptive structuration theory Organization Science vol. 5, pp 121-147, 1994 1  F  D Davi s R   P  B a go zzi  an d P  R  War sh aw   User  acceptance of computer tec hnology: A comparison of two theoretical models Management Science vol 35, pp. 982-1003, 1989 12 J. Sc hm itz a nd J. F u lk  O rg a n iz a tiona l c o lle a g ue s media richness, and electronic mail Communication Research vol. 18, pp. 487-523, 1991 13  S. T a y l or a nd P. T o d d  A s s e s s i ng IT us a g e  T h e role  of prior experience MIS Quarterly vol. 19, pp. 561570, 1995 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


1 V   V e n k at esh and F  D Davi s A t h eo ret i c al  extension of the technology acceptance model: Four longitudinal field studies Management Science vol 46, p. 186, 2000 15  J  R. Ca rls o n a n d R. W  Zm ud C ha nne l e x pa ns i on theory: A dynamic view of media and information richness perceptions Academy of Management Proceedings pp. 280-284, 1994 1 J B W a lth er In t erp e rson al eff e cts in co m p u t ermediated interaction: A relational perspective Communication Research vol. 19, pp. 52-90, 1992 17 J  D i m m i c k  S. K line  a n d L  Sta f f o rd T he  gratification niches of personal e-mail and the telephone: Competition, displacement, and complementarity Communication Research vol. 27 pp. 227-248, 2000 18  M. L  Ma rk us  E le c t ronic m a il a s the m e dium of  managerial choice Organization Science vol. 5, pp 502-527, 1994 19  E. M. R o g e rs a nd J  I K i m   D i ffus i on of in nov a tio n in public organizations," in Innovation in teh Public Sector R. L. Merritt and A. J. Merritt, Eds. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage, 1985, pp. 85-108 20 P. S Se ng e   The Fifth Discipline New York Doubleday, 1994 21  S. A lter D espa ratel y  se e k ing s y s t e m s think i ng in the  information systems discipline," in Twenty-fifth International Conference on Information Systems San Francisco, CA, 2004, pp. 757-769 22  J  Fulk  S oc ia l c ons tr uc tio n of c o m m unic a tion technology Academy of Management Journal vol 36, pp. 921-950, 1993 23 R. W  Sc ott Institutions and Organizations 2 ed Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 2001 24 W  E. Bijk e r  Of Bicycles, Bakelites, and Bulbs Toward a Theory of Sociotechnical Change  Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 1995 25  T  J  P i nc h a nd W  E Bijk e r  T he s o c i a l c ons truc ti on  of facts and artifacts: or how the sociology of science and the sociology of technology might benefit each other Social Studies of Science vol. 14, 1984 2  W W P o w e l l an d  P  J DiM a ggi o   The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis Chicago IL: The University of Chicago Press, 1991 27  G  B. D a v i s  R. K ling  a nd S. Ia c o no T he Con t rol of  Information Systems Developments After Implementation Communications of the ACM vol 27, pp. 1218-1226, 1984 28 R. Kling a n d G  Mc Kim   N ot just a m a tte r of ti m e   Field differences and the shaping of electronic media in supporting scientific communication Journal of the American Society for Information Science vol. 51 pp. 1306-1320, 2000 29  W  J  O r lik ow sk i a nd S. R  Ba rle y   T e c hnolog y a nd institutions: What can research of information technology and research organizations learn from each other MIS Quarterly vol. 25, pp. 145-165, 2001 30  J  G ourm a n The Gourman Report, Undergraduate Program 10 ed. New York: Princeton Review, 1998 31  US New s  W o rld Rep o r t  A me rican  s Best Co lleg es 2007," 2007 32  K  J o re s k og a nd D  S o r bom  LISREL 8: Structural Education Modeling with the SIMPLIS Command Language Lincolnwook, IL: Scientific Software International, 1993 33  K  J o re s k og D  Sor bom S du T o it, a n d M d u T o it LISREL 8: New Statistical Features Lincolnwood, IL Scientific Software International, 2001 34  I. A  W ong  I nf or m a tion a nd c o m m unic a tion technology in professional organization: An empirical investigation of the social actor model," Dissertation Abstracts International, vol. 69, p. 204, 2007 3  M i n t z b erg  Structure in Fives: Designing Effective Organizations Englewook Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall 1983  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


f xr xAzr xAzI kG kG ky 19 Next, real and imaginary \(a.k.a., I and Q\parts of the voltages in each range cell are us ed to calculate an estimate of the monopulse ratio.  The single-pulse-waveform equation for the azimuth direction is given in \(20 extension to waveforms with more than one sub-pulse can be found in 27   2  Im\(\Im\(\Re 210 f 22  1  r  x AzI o Az kxdp k y p  9  f 327 327  V V VV VRe y Az Az AzI 20 Finally, values for DOAs are found using the ratio estimates from \(19\ \(18 Azimuth DOA uncertainty for the single-pulse case is 24 n r      0 0 Re    r n V o 24 where Ro  and R are the observed signal-to-noise ratio and true signal-to-noise ratio, respectively. Evaluating 24\ield valu es for apparent truth and apparent detections relative to the beam and supports the calculation of 2 1 k D Example plots of 2 1 k D along with others, can be found in Section 4 Instrumentation Noise Model Here, instrumentation noise represents the various factors that contribute to uncertainty in the beam position and range relative to the antenna.  The transformation from a beamrelative detection to an antenna-relative detection must include this uncertainty in both the sine-space values and their uncertainty.  Instrumentation noise on a dwell-bydwell basis can be modeled as a difference between the desired beam point position and the true beam point position If the instrumentation noise is specified as a percentage of the radar\222s resolution, detection-primitive values are 26\where dp,b is a detection-primitive value relative to the beam, dp,a is a detection-primitive value relative to the antenna n i is the resolution percent i s a uni form random  variable over the interval -\275 to \275.  The range resolution is equal to the range-cell width a nd angle resolutions are equal to the 3dB beamwidths.  Reasonable values for n i are approximately 1  20 for range and 1  40 for angles  1,0\(\1,0 2 2 1 jNN n  t 18 Primitive-detection angles and their variances are estimated using monopulse processing.  The first step uses antenna patterns to calculate values for the monopulse ratio y I  versus DOA.  The equations a nd results shown here assume that the azimuth monopulse ratio does not depend on the elevation DOA and vice versa. This assumption is reasonably accurate for rectangul ar apertures but less so for circular apertures.  In \(18 G r  013\212 212 212 212   0   1 resrn resrn res rn n RRR RRR R RR f t 21   210 210 1 1 210 2  AzI Az Az y n n p n 17 Voltages from more than one target in a range cell \(e.g., see Figure 3\are simply added to produce the total target voltages for the cell.  Independent noise voltages equal to 004 and G r  f Az are the receive antenna sum and azimuth-diffe rence patterns respectively and k x is the azimuth DOA measured in sine space.  For the elevation direction substitute G r  f El for G r  f Az and k y for k x   004 and n f Az  represent the RMS noise power in the sum and azimuth channels respectively and a numerical method is used to evaluate the derivative in \(11\evation DOA uncertainty, substitute El for Az and k y for k x    d d 2 210 2  2  212\r=\r o E 23   2 2  t are also added to each cell  Figure 5 - Integration windows Range cells can now be convert ed into sine-space detection primitives.  Detection-primitive ranges are the same as those for the range cells.  The range uncertainty for range cell n is uniformly distributed between Rn-Rres and Rn+Rres resulting in a detection-primitive range variance given by 17\ SNR is not included because doing so results in an inconsistent 2 1 k D The expected SNR dependency on range variance is included as part of the centroiding algorithm   12 2 2  res Rdp R 


t t t t t t 26 26\ield values for apparent truth and apparent detections relative to the antenna and supports the calculation of 2 2 k D  Clustering and Centroiding Model Since energy from a target spreads into multiple range cells something must be done to combine detection primitives into a single measurement for each target.  Clustering selects detection primitives and centroiding combines clustered primitive data into a measurement.  The model presented here makes certain assumptions about the process that created the detection primitives.  For example, the model assumes a rectangular shaped ambiguity function cut and an exact c 2 f BW sampling interval.  Even with this simple detection model, closel y-spaced targets, false alarms and missed detections, clustering can be a challenge The simple model of clustering used for the simulated results first thresholds detection primitives based on the observed SNR R o culated by \(24\ to a threshold 27 Detectio n p r im itiv es th at rem ain  are clu s tered  an d  centroided based the number of consecutive range-cell indices occupied.  The simple clustering model considers three cases: a detection primitive with no range-cell-index neighbors, a pair of detecti on primitives with no neighbors except each other, and three or more consecutive range-cell indices.  These three cluster classes are shown in Figure 6 where they are named isolated pair, and CSO, respectively Centroiding treats each of th ese three cases differently Isolated Pair CSO Isolated Pair CSO  Figure 6 - Cluster cases For isolated clusters, the assumption of no additional information is used to produce a centroided measurement with values identical to the detection primitive.  Intuition about the uncertainty of an isolated cell seems to be at odds with this approach.  For example, if the SNR is high, the likelihood of the target being near the center of the range cell should also be high.  Th e assumption of no additional information seems to hold only when the cell\222s SNR is low and close to the detection threshold.  It turns out that 2 3 k D  can be used to examine algorith ms for the isolated-cell case and one of the examples looks at this problem CSO clusters violate the model assumption that target energy will spread to at most two consecutive range cells Thus, the cluster must contai n two or more closely-spaced targets or one target and a false alarm.  CSO clusters produce the same number of measurements as the number of detection primitives in the cluster and use values identical to the corresponding detection primitives.  Measurements from a CSO cluster are flagge d so that the tracker can differentiate between measurements from single-target clusters and CSO clusters.  Different rules govern how these measurements are used by th e tracker.  For example, the tracker may be allowed to in itiate and update a so-called CSO track with a CSO-cluster measurement but it may not be allowed to update a non-CSO track with a CSO-cluster measurement For pair clusters, the data in both detection primitives are used to produce a single centroided measurement and measurement variance.  The centroided measurement is simply the SNR weighted centroid of the two detection primitives expressed by \(27   1 2,,2,1,,1 2,,2,1,1 2,2,1,1 2,1     10            12 2 1 2 1  2 1 2 1  2 1 2 1      212 212 212  r r r r r r r+\r  adpy,oadp,yo adp,xoadp,,xo adp,oadp,o oo amy amx am k k k k R R k k R 27 27 The centroided variance is more involved because the same instrumentation noise is used for all detection primitives Subtracting the instrumentation noise variances from the antenna-relative detection primitives results in the same beam-relative variances used in \(26\roided standard deviations are calculated in \(28\Finally, \(29 adds in the instrumentation noise  r+\r r r r+\r r r r+\r r r  2,1 2 1 2,1 2 1 2,1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1    2 oo ko ko oo ko ko oo ko ko k k R bdp,y bdp,y bdp,x bdp,x bdpx bdp,x bmy bmx bm  resykyi resxkxi resRi k k R k k R kn kn Rn bdp,y bdp,x bdp adp,y adp,x adp  resykyi resxkxi resRi k k R k k R kn kn Rn bmy bmx bm amy amx am   Ukn Ukn URn k k R k k R resykyi resxkxi resRi bdp,y bdp,x bdp adp,y adp,x adp 25   2  2  2  2  22  2 2 2 2 2 2     t t t t t t t t t 28   2  2  2  2  22  2 2 2 2 2 2       t t t t t t 29 29\ield values for apparent truth and apparent clustered and centroided measurements relative to the antenna and supports the calculation of 2 3 k D    


017 32   00 0 0 00 2 2 2     T j k k R ji iamy iamx iam HHP S  212 212  11 Assignment and Filtering Turning off the effects and corrections due to sensorregistration bias and atmospheric refraction allows the consistency of the measurem ent-to-track assignment and track filtering algorithms to be studied.  The example results use the Jonker-Volgenant algorithm  t o  sol v e t h e global-nearest-neighbor assignment between centroided measurements and tracks.  Th e cost matrix {Ci,j}  is populated according to the rela tionships in \(30 33 j x 210 and j P are state estimate and covariance respectively for track j extra polated to the measurement time h 225\measurement function that transforms the state estimate into the measurement frame and H is a Jacobian matrix that transforms the track-state covariance into the measurement frame    016 212 30  017 006 016 212  S 31    jieji C   log  t t t 33 33\and processing the measurements with a standard extended Kalm   2 8 k D  4  N UMERICAL S IMULATION AND R ESULTS  A simulation model designed around the data-flow diagram shown in Figure 4 supports a variety of consistency investigations.  Some of these investigations were inspired by algorithm errors detected a nd correct with this technique Other investigations are open ended in that they point out places where further algorithm improvements are needed The results presented in the examples only consider random effects that vary from pulse to pulse or dwell to dwell.  If covariance consistency cannot be obtained at this scale, then there is little hope of getting it right over an ensemble of Monte Carlo trials The scenario used in the examples consists of an ESR Xband radar tracking an incoming ballistic target.  The target range relative to the radar varies from ~380 km to ~25 km The target\222s RCS is large enough so that waveform control maintains an SNR close to the goal SNR of 25 dB.  The target\222s mean RCS and percent scintillation changes as the aspect angle varies from ~50\260 to ~0.6\260 over its trajectory The sine-space azimuth is n early constant varying from 0.70 to ~0.56 at apogee to ~0 66.  The sine-space elevation varies over a wider range from ~-0.40 to ~0.11 at apogee to 0.07.  Under these conditions tracking error is fairly small so that the target is track ed near beam center.  One exception to beam-center track ing occurs in the first example where different values for beam-steering offsets are added on purpose Targets Away from Beam Center Consider the difference in Fi gure 7 between measurements that occur on or near beam center where the monopulse response is approximately linear versus measurements that occur closer to the edge where the monopulse response is curved.  The monopulse response transforms uncertainty in y I into uncertainty in DOA Near beam center a Gaussian uncertainty in y I results in a Gaussian uncertainty in DOA Closer to the edge, the monopulse response distorts y I 222s uncertainty so that the DOA\222s un certainty is both biased and no longer Gaussi  Unless some compensation is applied, it is expected that the covariance consistency will be better near the beam\222s center compared to the edge.  Indeed, plots of consistency versus distance from beam center in Fi gure 8 match expectations The order of plots from top to bottom and the legend order are the same.  A value equal to 1 is consistent while a value greater than 1 implies that th e reported covariance is smaller than the uncertainty in the data.  To generate these curves constant beam-point offsets of 0, 1%, 5%, 10%, and 12.5 of the 3dB beamwidth were added to the elevation direction of the nominal beam point.  A sliding window of 50 points was used to calculate the average 2 1 k D values plotted in the curves     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA  Figure 7 - Measurements on the monopulse curve One notable feature of Figure 8 is the sensitivity.  There is fairly significant degradation at a modest 5% offset.  As  212 j iamy iamx iam ji T j iamy iamx iam ji k k R k k R xh Sxh 210 210    1     2   2    5.0exp 2 1 ji ji ji 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


