Agile Deployment:  Lean Service Management and Deployment Strategies for the SaaS Enterprise   Robert Benefield British Telecom plc robert.benefield@bt.com    Abstract  The Software as a Service \(SaaS\ delivery model has recently become an acceptable business model for software delivery.  However, the attractiveness of SaaS to customers, with their low upfront costs and seamless delivery, changes the game in ways that challenge traditional software development methodologies.   As customers begin to treat software as an on demand 
utility, expectations of high up time, predictable quality strong security and privacy, and lower total costs become at least as critical as time-honored feature functionality requirements. The efficiency and accuracy of delivery can make or break a business.  As demands upon the service increase and change, the resilience and transparent scalability of the operational architecture becomes as important as that of the software running within it.  This paper explores how these new challenges parallel modern demands within manufacturing, and how many key Lean manufacturing techniques might be applicable within 
this emerging field     1. Introduction  The advent of the Internet created an entirely new mechanism for information, software and business delivery that has revolutionized society.  The ubiquity of the web browser and Internet connectivity has become a huge draw to businesses of all sizes as it allows for immediate and unencumbered access to the consumer. Entire multi billion dollar industries, from 
search and media conglomerates like Yahoo! and Google to commerce platforms like Amazon and EBay to business tools and process companies like Salesforce.com and Netsuite depend entirely upon the Internet to exist.  More and more companies, from the IBMs of the world down to sole proprietorships, rely upon systems that are part of, connected to, or built on top of other services entirely contained in this emerging Internet platform to conduct their day to 
day business For the software industry the Internet platform  introduces a means to replace the traditional bottlenecks of delivering shrinkwrapped media, a model that requires manual installation on customer supplied hardware, with immediately accessible web pages and APIs connected to the Internet from supplier hosted applications.  This distribution mechanism allows for incredible speeds to market and rapid adoption.  It also lowers costs through eliminating the 
need for additional equipment on the consumer side Other cost lowering tactics such as customer multitenancy are also possible.  As the application upgrades are in the control of the supplier, there is also an opportunity to seamlessly narrow the support band for a product.  While the benefits are numerous, this newfound efficiency comes at a cost   2. Availability Demands  The increasing dependence on this new platform 
 world has begun to create a requirement by customers that these services should be no different than electricity or telephone service, a world where consistent availability is traditionally both expected and highly valued.   As a response Software as a Service \(SaaS\sinesses must often compete with each other not only on the relative feature functionality merits of their product, but also on the service availability.  They have begun to vie for the most 
number of 9s of service availability, with some touting availability numbers near or at the telco grade standard of 99.999%.  Service availability is typically calculated as some variation on the formula  Availability = \(service time downtime\vice time 100     Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


Table 1:  Availability as a unit of downtime allowed per measured period Availability  Downtime Per Week Downtime Per Month Downtime Per Year 95 8.4 hours 36 hours 18.25 days 99 1.68 hours 7.2 hours 3.65 days 99.9 10.1 mins 43.2 mins 8.76 hours 99.99 1.01 mins 4.32 mins 52.6 min 99.999 6.05 secs 25.9 sec 5.26 secs  Each increase in the number of 9s dramatically reduces the amount of downtime allowed.  Most high end hardware vendors, having years of experience with the telecoms industry, typically aim for a Mean Time Between Failure \(MTBF\at achieves the telco 5-9s of availability \(99.999%\et The challenges of high software uptimes are many Software must run on hardware, and thus must deal with the cumulative MTBF of all the underlying components.  In addition, while development and quality control practices within the software industry are relatively nascent compared with that of hardware such practices are still embryonic on the Internet delivery platform.  In order to overcome these challenges, some providers have begun to borrow from the tenets of Lean Manufacturing that were first pioneered by Toyota for automobile manufacturing The Toyota Production System \(TPS\bines management philosophy and practices to form an integrated socio-technical system that, like the SaaS enterprise, demands high quality products delivered just in time.  It organizes all aspects of the business to design out overburden muri consistency mura  and eliminate waste muda   On e o f  h e  k e y s i s  to create a system that can see correlations between events and propose some procedures and changes that can allow some prediction of the future.  This paper will walk through the core tenets of Lean and how they can be applied to the SaaS  3. Poka Yoke Mistake Proofing  Most common quality problems are caused by inadvertent mistakes.  The concept of Poka Yoke is to put mechanisms in place that either makes mistakes impossible to perform or otherwise make it impossible to not immediately notice them when they occur.  A common example in the physical world is that of 3.5  floppy disks, which are designed so that the disk can only be inserted into a drive one way Lack of reproducibility is one of the biggest scourges to ensuring software quality.  Unfortunately much of this has been brought upon by many common practices in the industry.  These include software often being developed, compiled, tested and deployed manually in environments that were at least in part built by hand.  Even in more mature organizations it is not uncommon for development, test and production environments to vary in sometimes unknown or irreproducible ways.  Dependencies across environments are often hard to track if tracked at all Software is sometimes designed to modify itself and/or the environment it is on upon installation.  Worst of all traditional development methodologies like Waterfall encourage releasing large bundles consisting of multiple components all at once.  These big birthlike events often have so many moving parts that deriving the effects of a change make troubleshooting problems difficult, and without careful and considerable effort often ma ke rollback prohibitive There is considerable value in mistake proofing  the whole software development lifecycle, especially for an SaaS.  Unknown or unnecessary variances in an SaaS environment not only can affect service quality but also availability.  Variances also challenge service integration efforts.  Many useful systems should be put in place that not only reduce the possibility of inconsistencies, but also can help make it easy to understand and reproduce environments quickly across the entire software lifecycle.  These systems should span the technology stack, as well as the software lifecycle. Operating system installation tools such as Solaris jumpstart or Linux kickstart, and automating build tools like CruiseControl or Hudson are already commonly used tools for fully automating commonly repeated tasks in an easily annotated, reproducible and versioned way.  Asset databases that may already exist within an organization can be used to track hardware components and variances, when paired with monitoring and incident data they can help find potential problem areas or bottlenecks in infrastructure Investments in better atomic packaging, automated deployment and configuration tools, and intelligent test automation take this even further.  Atomic packaging provides versioned, self contained packages that can be independently released and rolled back easily and cleanly.  Automated deployment and environment management tools should understand versions and role relationships between packages and environments.  It should deploy and configure packages atomically and in an automated fashion, and should have the ability to regularly audit software manifests and configurations to ensure compliance between what is installed and the models stored in the environment management database.  When both are combined with test automation, changes can be made, tracked and tested quickly and in a focused manner.  Errors and inconsistencies can be located quickly and corrected Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


At Yahoo, such systems not only condensed the duration of testing and integration cycles from often weeks to hours, but reduced the number of cycles required while significantly contributing to adding over one 9 of measured uptime across business units that adopted them As such systems are deployed two benefits become immediately apparent.  The first is that it becomes far easier to permit a steady stream of product improvements, as there is both confidence in the configurations of development, test and production environments, as well as it becomes easy and straightforward to release a nd, if required, roll back changes quickly. Secondly, the automation and configuration databases dramatically reduce the amount of staff overhead required in order to manage the infrastructure.  A single engineer can build and release to thousands of systems instantly and accurately, as well as later verify that the services are operating correctly and rollback as necessary Companies such as Google and Yahoo! have been able to obtain ratios of thousands of servers running hundreds of services handling millions of requests per engineer through such mechanisms, allowing their organizations to scale in ways that are otherwise conventionally impossible  4. Jidoka  Stop the Line Autonomation  While the tools of Poke Yoke go a long way to preventing errors, failures are still inevitable.  To preserve high availability, protect customers  businesses and data, and to bolster customer confidence that their interests are being well looked after, SaaS providers must find and quickly correct any faults.  Traditional manual recovery methods are expensive and error-prone, and without the right protections do not necessarily find and resolve the root cause.  Anyone who has been told to reboot or restart an application without any explanation or further resolution only for the problem to return later can certainly relate Jidoka is best described as automation with a human touch Simple automated restarting of failed processes, or tools that only provide heuristic data alone rarely provide sufficient information to find and eliminate the root causes of errors.  Methods such as code hooks and other instrumentation within the software that provide transparency into the overall health of the application, as well as defensive programming techniques that encourage graceful failures and provide effective artifacts for both troubleshooting and future testing, not only help improve the speed of problem resolution but also provide valuable data that can be fed back into the software lifecycle to improve mistake proofing  There are other incredibly valuable data sources that are often not tracked or otherwise carelessly ignored A professional technical operations team that manages the running of a service can provide incredible depth of knowledge of the operational health of a product These staff members are the closest thing to having customers on staff, as the quality of the operational health of the product will directly affect these people first.  Continued collaboration during product development can provide clues to areas of concern that can be proactively targeted.  Incident tracking and trending, as well as site performance numbers operational load to break and failure mode testing can be complied into a health dashboard that can help spot problem areas and technical debt.   Teams that implemented such measures typically added one to two 9s of availability to their products.  They were also able to confidently increase release velocity from months to weeks or days, and were able to target far more effective functionality goals for these releases  5. Kaizen Continual Improvement  Tracking failure only provides one useful dimension to the relative quality of a product.  If implemented well, the SaaS model also provides unique insights that, when leveraged with the big picture of other metrics across the software lifecycle, can provide a plethora of information to better target resources and improve the customer experience.  Having the data is not enough, and many organizations are already overwhelmed by what they have or improperly focus on minutiae.  Instead, a systematic approach that encourages continual experimentation, and a holistic view across the entire product and the organization around it is the key to a high performing SaaS The philosophy of kaizen is that of continuous proactive improvement through all aspects of life.  It considers both the results as well as the process so that the actions that achieve the effects, whether good or bad, are surfaced.  It is also non-judgmental and nonblaming.  It is critical that staff or customers should not fear that they will be censured as it breaks trust and often causes people to hide or obfuscate facts A huge advantage of the SaaS model is that it allows for unobtrusive observation of how services are being used.  A provider can understand what flows and features are more or less popular, and can observe performance and interaction characteristics that can be used for business and technical planning.  If the architecture accommodates and the requisite work has been done to gauge software quality, experimental Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


bucket tests can be run that seamlessly redirects a small number of targeted users towards newer or different functionality or configurations and receive immediate feedback.  This is of tremendous value over waiting for feedback after a release as it can allow for engineers or business people to change course and reduce waste far more rapidly Haphazard data analysis and experimentation can be both dangerous and cause businesses to move in a direction counter to their best interests.  The entire organization, from technical engineers to business analysts to Finance, needs to work together collaboratively using a deliberate scientific approach Key metrics across the software and business lifecycle should be exposed and correlated.  Incidents and performance issues often correlate to build health and bug counts.  Revenue from certain features may not justify the capital or operational costs associated with them.  If installations or upgrades are slow or painful it might provide certain insight on how quickly the organization can react to new business demands or major shifts in the industry.  The term Internet time  where radical industry shifts and events happen in highly compressed periods of time, has been batted around for a while and is very real.  Scientific experimentation and correlation allows organizations to be more nimble, understand their strengths and weaknesses, and provide measures to technical business, financial and procedural decisions that can be made readily available to key organizational stakeholders There are some basic practices that nearly any technology company can start with.  The first is to look for opportunities to obtain fresh perspectives on the state and sanity of key elements of the business.  The Toyota Production System actively looks to eliminate anything that does not advance the process.  It does not settle for eliminating the waste that everyone recognizes as waste. Many people resign themselves to certain problems, or have become hostage to routine and abandon the practice of problem solving.  There are many ways to see if complacency has grown in an organization.  Can someone unfamiliar with the business come in and with little direction quickly understand the health of the codebase, infrastructure and current projects?  Can they quickly understand the value the business provides to its customers?  One test that can be implemented is to have new hires install configure and use product\(s\with little to no assistance beyond what documentation might be available, and afterward capture their impressions, focusing particularly on what things were bad, weird or unexpected.  Similar things can be done by having employees trade duties, even for short periods of time Providing channels for people to share ideas understand the challenges of the business, and try to find ways to fix them is critical Finally having the means to experiment in nondisruptive and nondestructive ways is key.   It is perhaps the most difficult piece to get right as it requires alignment across the organization and an acceptance that not all experiments will succeed  6. Just In Time  Few SaaS have traffic patterns that are flat and predictable.  They will typically experience regular load peaks and troughs, with occasional traffic spikes that seem to come out of nowhere.  A SaaS must deal with these traffic shifts transparently in order to ensure acceptable service responsiveness and availability.  A business can decide to provision ahead of time for the worst case scenario.  Unfortunately, their best guess might be wrong, and the costs of acquiring and maintaining the usually idle resources can be prohibitively expensive.  Also, traffic patterns and the demands across the infrastructure will change as software and the customers using it are added or change their behavior, meaning that any specialized configurations tightly tied to key components might only provide transient value and not be flexible enough for their added costs.  Means must be put in place to minimize the waste while maximizing the ability of the SaaS to respond quickly to these demands The concept of Just In Time is to flexibly deploy resources as they are needed and no sooner.  Amazon and Google have both introduced the concept of cloud computing to the mainstream.  Clouds are in essence similarly configured servers that work in unison to provide computing resources to the applications running on them quickly and efficiently.  This building block approach allows for services to be scaled up or down quickly, much like Lego bricks.  While Amazon and Google have built rather sophisticated software to manage their clouds, the underlying concepts of modular architecture in its simplest form can be applied to any SaaS.  Software architecture decisions that require lots of specialized systems should be carefully studied as they greatly reduce flexibility and introduce waste Just In Time is particularly effective when used in conjunction with Jidoka, Kaizen and Poka Yoke.  As seen earlier, Jidoka and Kaizen provide useful mechanisms to understand and respond to changes quickly, and Poka Yoke can instill useful mechanisms that speed the accuracy and delivery of deployment When used together with a modular infrastructure signals of traffic imbalances can trigger automated or guided intelligent reconfiguration of the production Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


environment that shift resources from other parts of the environment to alleviate load and mitigate failures.  An added benefit is if traffic patterns follow a daily sinelike curve, batch and offline jobs can be run on dynamically reconfigured production systems in off hours.  Other services which have inverse load profiles can also similarly benefit As organizations become much more sophisticated this model can allow for resources to be brought to bear only as they are needed.  Services and resources could be requested and leased for defined periods This can be useful for infrequently used services, and is ideal for development and test where resources and environments might be dialed up from a reconfigurable pool where they can be returned afterwards on demand.  Decisions can also be made at the last moment of how to optimally manage resources as which ones to run serially or in parallel.  At Yahoo such measures allowed in several cases for a reduction of hardware footprint of 60-80%, while allowing for far more dynamic and complete testing and more timely response to radical traffic spikes, both planned and unplanned  7. Conclusion  The challenges of the SaaS model will continue to force organizations to look for new ways to produce high quality services more efficiently and more rapidly than ever before.  The techniques found in the Toyota Production System and Lean Manufacturing provide a useful guide for both large and small businesses that can be adapted and followed throughout the software lifecycle  10. References  1 O hno   T a i i c hi  Toyota Production System:  Beyond Large-scale Production Productivity Press, Inc 2  Poppendieck, Mary and Tom Lean Software Development:  An Agile Toolkit Addison Wesley Professional, 2003  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 6   on ground distributed user Earth terminals, being the traffic user installations for the support of traffic and control connectivity to/from the user space terminals  4  C ONCLUSION   This paper presented possible design options for the E²GDRSS, with a particular fo cus to system architecture and payload. One of the key element of the future generation of DRS systems is the use of very high frequency bands such as Q/V and even W-bands, since lower frequency bands have saturation problems furthermore high frequencies allow to reduce the size of the users payloads and with respect to the first generation DRS The E²GDRSS future activities will use the baseline introduced in this paper in order to design the full system 5  R EFERENCES    A M o rando, R  Gi ubi l e i  G. Losquadro, F. Vat a l a ro System concepts for the Eur opean Data Relay System Space Communications Vol.7, Nov. 1990, pp. 365-383   P. C onfort o G. Losquadro, A. Pandol fi A. Sbardel l a t i   V Schena, R. Winkler, A. Sposito, L. Zuliani, “Architectural solutions and communication link design for a 2 nd  generation data relay system”, 13th Ka and Broadband Communications Conference, Sep. 07, Turin \(Italy  M  Lucent e E. R e T. R o ssi M  R uggi eri  A. Jebri l   C   Sacchi, V. Dainelli, “Persp ectives of W band for space communications”, IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007, Big Sky, Montana \(USA\arch 2007  W iley J. Larson, Jam e s R. W e rtz, “Space Mission Analysis and Design”, 3r d edition, Space Technology Library, 1999 5] European Space Agency web site http://www.esa.int  6  B IOGRAPHY   Marco Lucente received his University Degree in Physics with specialization of Astrophysics and Space Physics in 2002 from the University of Rome “La Sapienza”. He was involved in studying the polarimeter of the BOOMERanG \(Balloon Observation of Millimetric Extragalactic Radiation and Geophysics\ experiment He received a MSc Degree in “Advanced Communication and Navigation Sat ellite Systems” at the University of Rome “Tor Vergata” in 2004/2005. Since the beginning of 2004, he is a sc ientific member of the WAVE W-band Analysis and VErification project team. His main fields of research concern Space Systems, EHF Telecommunication Satellites, Universe/Solar System Observation Satellites, Navi gation Satellite Systems, and Inertial Navigation Systems Emiliano Re was born in Rome, Italy in 1982. He received his University Degree in  2006 in Telecommunication Engineering from the University of Rome “Tor Vergata Currently he is a Ph.D. student in the Department of Telecommunications and Microelectronic Engineering at the same university His main fields of research are in Satellite Communications and in the exp loitation of millimeter wave in Deep Space Communications and Radar Systems Tommaso Rossi received his University Degree in Telecommunications in 2002 and MSc De gree in “Advanced Communications and Navigation Satellite Systems” in 2004 at the University of Rome “Tor Vergata where he is currently a Ph.D student and an Assitant Professor. Currently, he is a member of the Italian Space Agency WAVE \(W-band Analysis and VErification Project Technical Team, a feasibility study for W-band telecommunication payloads; he has been a technical member of the ESA research project on Flowers Constellations. His research activity is focused on Space Systems, EHF Satellite Tel ecommunications, Satellite and Inertial Navigation Systems, Digital Signal Processing and Satellite Constellations Mauro De Sanctis is Assistant Professor at the Department of Electronics Engineering, University of Roma “Tor Vergata” \(Italy\. He received the “Laurea” degree in Telecommunications Engineering in 2002 and the Ph.D. degree in Telecommunications and Microelectronics Engineering in 2006 from the same University. He was involved in the MAGNET \(My personal Adaptive Global NET\ European FP6 integrated project and in the SatNEx European network of excellence he is currently involved in the MAGNET Beyond European FP6 integrated project as WP3/Task3 leader. In 2006 he worked as post-doctoral research fellow for the ESA/ARIADNA extended study named “The Flower Constellation Set and its Possible Applications”. He is/was involved in several Italian national research projects: ICONA \(Integration of Communication and Navigation services\ from January 2006 to December 2007, SHINES \(Satellite and HAP Integrated NEtworks and Services\ from January 2003 to December 2004, CABIS \(CDMA for Broadband mobile terrestrial-satellite Integrat ed Systems\ from January 2001  


 7 to December 2002. He was invo lved in the DAVID satellite mission \(DAta and Video Interactive Distribution\ and is currently involved in th e WAVE satellite mission \(W-band Analysis and VErification\ of the ASI \(Italian Space Agency\. In autumn of 2004, he joined the CTIF \(Center for TeleInFrastructure\, a research center focusing on modern telecommunications technologies located at the University of Aalborg \(Denmark\. He is currently serving as Associate Editor of the IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. His main areas of in terest are: satellite networks and constellations \(in particular Flower Constellations stratospheric platforms, resource management of short range wireless systems Cosimo Stallo received his University degree with specialization of Microelectronic Design from Polytechnic of Bari. He was involved in studying  Optical Model of a selectively oxidized VCSEL Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Laser\ emitting at 850 nm He received cum laude a MSc Degree in “Advanced Communicati on and Navigation Satellite Systems” in 2006 at University of Rome Tor Vergata, where he is actually a Ph.D student. He is a scientific member of WAVE \(Wave Analysis and Verification\ project team. His main fields of research concern Space System Telecommunication Satellites, Navigation Satellite System and Millimeter Wave Systems  Er nestina Cianca  received  her University degree cum laude in Electronic Engineering at the University of L’Aquila in 1997. She obtained a Ph.D. in 2001 at the University of Rome “Tor Vergata Department of Electronic Engineering with a Ph.D, thesis on the power management in CDMA-based satellite systems. She has been employed by the University of Aalborg, Denmark, in the Wireless Networking Groups \(WING\, as Research engineer \(20002001\ and as Assistant Professor \(2001-2003\. She is currently Assistant Professor in Telecommunications at the URTV \(Dpt. of Electronics Engineering\, teaching DSP Information and Coding Theory. Her research mainly concerns wireless access technologies \(CDMA and MIMOOFDM-based systems\, in particular, Radio Resource Management at PHY/MAC layer, TCP-IP issues over wireless links, energy efficiency in wireless sensor networks integration of terrestrial and satellite systems. She is the principal investigator of th e WAVE-A2 mission, funded by the Italian Space Agency and aiming to design payloads in W-band for scientific experimen tal studies of the W-band channel propagation phenome na and channel quality. She has been the vice-coordinator of the following national research programs: CABIS, on CDMA integrated mobile systems \(2000-2002\ and SHINES, on satellite-HAP integrated networks for multimedia applications cofinanced by MIUR \(2002-2004\. She currently working on a national project ICONA \(Integrated Communication and Navigation, 2005-2007\ and in the European Project EU FP6 IP MAGNET Beyond. She is author of about 45 papers, on international journals/transactions and proceedings of inter national conferences Marina Ruggieri graduated in Electronics engineering in 1984 at the University of Rome. She joined FACE-ITT and GTC-ITT Roanoke, VA\ in the High Frequency Division during \(1985-1986\; then a Research and Teaching Assistant at the University of Rome Tor-Vergata \(19861991\; Associate Professor in Telecommunications at the Univ. of L'Aquila \(1991-1994 Since November 2000 she is Full Professor in Telecommunications at the University of Rome TorVergata. In 1999 she was appointed member of the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society, and in 2005 has been also appointed director of IEEE-AESS operations in Italy and Western Europe. She is a member of the Editorial Board of Wireless Personal Communications KLUWER She is an author of more than 220 papers, on international journals/transactions and pro ceedings of international conferences, book chapters and books. She was awarded the 1990 Piero Fanti International Prize and was nominated for the Harry M. Mimmo Award in 1996 and the Cristoforo Colombo Award in 2002. Her research mainly concerns space communications and navigation systems \(in particular satellites\ as well as mobile and multimedia networks         


Proof of Theorem 2 We rst prove L AE   and then prove  l  L AP  n  Z  l j  np   L AE    We assume L AE 012    and reduce it to absurdity According to the assumption   l  L AE that means   i 1 and  i 2 Z n   l   i 1   i 2 where  i 1 and  i 2 are allocated onto the same processor and   i 3 and  i 4 Z n   l   i 3   i 4 where  i 1 and  i 2 are allocated onto different processors Note that Z n is iteration space If the loop nest is parallelized in the j th level i j 1 015 i j 2 mod p  where p is the processor id So i j 3  i j 4  l j  i j 1  i j 2 015 0 mod p   which means  i 3 and  i 4 are also allocated on the same processor It leads to conict with the assumption Thus the assumption is absurd and L AE      l  L AP  n  Z  l j  np  Suppose  l links  i 1 and  i 2     Suppose n  Z  l j  np  then  i j 1   i j 2  l j  np So  i j 1 015  i j 2 mod p   which means  i 1 and  i 2 are allocated on the same processor Because L AE   proved above  l  L AP     Suppose  l   i 1   i 2  and  i 1 is allocated on the processor P q as  i 2 So  m 1  Z  i j 1  m 1 p and  m 2  Z  i j 2  m 2 p If n  m 1  m 2  n  Z and l j  i j 1  i j 2  m 1 p  m 1 p  np    is proved Under L AE     n  Z  l j  np is the converse proposition of  n  Z  l j  np So  l  L AP  n  Z  l j  np   Proof of Theorem 3 If  l 1   l 2  L AP  then  m n  Z    l LP M 1   l LP M 2  ker LP M and  l 1 0    mp   0 T e j  mp   l LP M 1  l 2 0   np   0 T e j  np   l LP M 2 Because m  n  Z   l LP M 1   l LP M 2  ker LP M   l 1   l 2   012 012 012 012 012 012  0     m  n  p    0  015 015 015 015 015 015  e j  m  n  p   l LP M 1   l LP M 2   L AP Thus L AP constitute the subspace of the link vector space While 0   p   0 T e j  p is the base of the space 0   np   0 T e j  p n  Z  Because ker LP M is also a closed space L AP  span                   012 012 012 012 012 012  0    p    0  015 015 015 015 015 015  e j  p ker LP M                  Proof of Theorem 4 Suppose the upper bound of a chunk is i j,L  a 1 pk  a 2 k and the lower bound is i j,U  a 1 pk  a 2 k  k  1  If a link vector l j  b 1 pk  b 2 k  b 3 separately starts from these two bound points the end points will be i j,L  l j  a 1  b 1  pk  a 2  b 2  k  b 3 i j,U  l j  a 1  b 1  pk  a 2  b 2  k  k  1 b 3 Because 0  b 3 k   i j,L  l j k  015 a 2  b 2 mod p   i j,U  l j k  015 a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p     If the end points of the link vector belong to the same chunk a 2  b 2 015 a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p  So  k  1 b 3 k  015 0 mod p  Because 0  b 3 k  0  k  1 b 3  2 k  1 Thus k  1 b 3 k  b 3  1  b 3 0  l j  b 1 pk  b 2 k If the end points belong to different chunks a 2  b 2 012  a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p  Then  k  1 b 3 k  012  0 mod p  Because 0  b 3 k and k  1  k  1 b 3  2 k  1  k  1 b 3  k k  k  1 b 3  2 k  1 1  b 3 k  k  1 b 3 k  015 1 mod p  a 2  b 2 1 015 a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p  which means the end points belong to adjacent chunks    Because every step above is reversible   is proved 
523 
523 


BIOGRAPHY Dimitry Gorinevsky is a Consulting Professor of Electrical Engineering in Information Systems Laboratory at Stanford University and a Principal of Mitek Analytics LLC He received a Ph.D from Moscow Lomonosov University and a M.Sc from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology He held research engineering and academic positions in Moscow Russia Munich Germany Toronto and Vancouver Canada He spent 10 years with Honeywell His interests are in decision and control systems applications across many industries He has authored a book more than 140 reviewed technical papers and a dozen patents Dr Gorinevsky is an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology He is a recipient of Control Systems Technology Award 2002 and Transactions on Control Systems Technology Outstanding Paper Award 2004 of the IEEE Control Systems Society He is a Fellow of IEEE Gabriel Hoffmann is a PhD candidate at Stanford He is also with Mitek Analytics LLC working on NASA AR&D project At Stanford Gabriel develops hardware flight software and control laws for a fleet of quadrotor helicopter unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs He has been the team lead for controls systems for the Stanford Racing Team since 2004 He designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Stanley though a 132 mile race across off-road desert terrain to win DARPA Grand Challenge in 2005 He also designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Junior through 56 miles of urban terrain to place second in the DARPA Urban Challenge Gabriel interned at Boeing Space Systems Houston working on the International Space Station He interned at the NASA Ames Academy in 2001 Marina Shmakova is working on modeling and analysis of fault tolerant systems with Mitek Analytics LLC She is also a Staff Scientist at Physics Department of Stanford University She worked on analysis of Hubble Space Telescope data including the attitude and pointing data and observational data As a research associate at Stanford Linear Accelerator Center Dr Shmakova worked on different aspects of astrophysics and high energy physics She has Ph.D and in MS in Physics from University of Tennessee Robert Mah is a Senior Scientist in Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Research Center ARC He received a Ph.D in Applied Mechanics and M.S in Mechanical Engineering from Stanford University in 1988 and 1976 He has led and managed NASA projects and groups for more than 30 years He is a recipient of many NASA awards including NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal three Space Act awards several awards for Technology Transfer and Commercialization Spacecraft Docking Simulation Award and several others He published a few dozen papers and has several patents received and pending He was a keynote or invited speaker at many international and NASA conferences his work was featured in the media Dr Mah currently is a Project Scientist for Integrated Vehicle Health Management project in NASA Aviation Safety Program Scott Cryan received BS Aerospace Engineering from University of Buffalo in 1988 Since then he has been working Space Shuttle and Intermational Space Station GPS receivers In addition to the GPS receiver role on Space Shuttle and ISS he had been working on GPS _ii lreceivers for several projects at NASA JSC Recently Mr Cryan has been investigating relative navigation sensor performance via testing and analyses with open loop simulations Currently Mr Cryan is the relative navigation subsystem manager for the CEV Project at NASA-JSC Jennifer Mitchell is the Crew Exploration Vehicle Flight Dynamics Deputy Functional Area Manager at NASAs Johnson Space Center and also serves as the Project Manager for the Exploration Systems Technology Development Au_0 tomated Rendezvous and Docking Sensor Technology Project She has supported guidance navigation and control system development and testing for the Autonomous Extravehicular Robotic Camera AERCam the International Space Station and the X38 Crew Return Vehicles Space Integrated Global Positioning System  Inertial Navigation System She has a BS in Aerospace Engineering from Texas A&M University 


 10 data obtained from the industrial motor test setup. Data was acquired using the experimental fault profile in Figure 15. A snapshot of raw data, including the calculated feature values, is provided in Figure 16 Anomaly Detection\227 The particle filter framework was integrated into LabVIEW to evaluate the real-time performance of the anomaly detector during data acquisition. Shown in Figure 17 is a GUI developed in LabVIEW to manage the anomaly detector settings which include the false alarm rate \(type I error\and false alarm threshold \(type II error  Addi t i onal  confi gurat i on settings include the number of particles used by the particle filter, baseline statistics, fault model, and particle filter update / sample time The results from anomaly detector, using the data shown previously in Figure 16, are provided in Figure 18. The green line represents the confidence of detection based on the false alarm rate and the red line represents the alarm, or detection, threshold as defined earlier in Figure 17. The red dot designates the crossing point during which the red health-state light illuminates to indicate an anomaly has occurred 6  C ONCLUSION  This paper presented a particle-filter based anomaly detector capable of detecting the occurre nce of a major fault mode in its incipient stages for a safe ty critical aircraft actuation system. An overview of a ge neric PHM architecture were presented and applied to a particular EMA fault mode based on an internal FMEA study. The fault mode investigated in detail was a turn-to-turn winding insulation short for a brushless DC motor. The primary fault mode was modeled using physics-of-failure mechan isms indicating the primary failure effect, phase current asymmetry. A feature was derived using a Hilbert transform and statistical analysis to quantify the primary failure eff ect. Then, experimental data was acquired to validate the Simulink simulation model Finally, real-time evaluation of the anomaly detector was performed using LabVIEW  Although a specific system, an EMA, was selected as the test-platform with a specific fault mode, the overall PHM architecture can be applied to an entire range of systems and application domains. In fact, similar techniques which allow  Figure 16\227Plots of experimental data \(top computed features \(bottom experimental test setup using LabVIEW  Figure 17\227LabVIEW interface used to define particle filter settings Figure 18\227Plot of anomaly detection confidence \(top and health state indicator \(bottom\the experimental test setup using LabVIEW 


 11 for early fault detection dur ing acceptable performance in the presence of faults are being developed for a wide variety of system in both manned and unmanned air vehicles Therefore, the concept of usi ng system health information diagnosis and prognosis\n conjunction with reconfigurable control is at the forefront of modern space and avionics applications requiring increasingly sophisticated fault-tolerant systems that are robust, reliable and relatively inexpensive. Ther efore the need arises for a fault-tolerant control architecture to further maximize performance and extend the operating life of COTS components in future avionics systems A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was performed under the United States Air Force USAF\contract number FA8650-06-C-7628. The program is sponsored by the USAF Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL orate \(RB\Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. Mr. J.B. Schroeder, AFRL/RBCC is the Air Force Technical POC a nd Robert Chen is the NGC Program Manager and Principal Investigator. Georgia Institute of Technology \(GA Tech\lead the algorithm development and MOOG Aero space provided actuator and motor data. Tests presented herein were conducted at NGC R EFERENCES  1  M Orch ard  223A Particle Filterin g Based Fram ewo r k  for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Ph.D. Thesis, Electrical a nd Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of T echnology, Atlanta, 2007 2 M. Orch ard  G. Vach tsev an o s, \223A Particle Filterin g  Approach for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Transactions of the Institute of Measurement and Control in print   M. Orchard, B. W u and G. Vachtsevanos, \223A Particle Filter Framework for Failure Prognosis,\224 Proceedings of WTC2005, World Tribology Congress III  Washington D.C., USA, 2005    D. B rown, D. Edwards, G Georgoul as B  Zhang and G. Vachtsevanos, "Real-Time Fault Detection and Accommodation for COTS Resolver Position Sensors 1st International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM Oct. 69, 2008   A M u rray  H. B ruce and A. Hi rao, \223R esol ver Posi t i on Sensing System with Integrated Fault Detection for Automotive Applications,\224 Proc. of IEEE Sensors  vol. 2, pp. 864 \226 869, 2002   B  Zhang G. Georgoul as, M Orchard, A. Saxena, D Brown, G. Vachtsevanos, S. Liang, \223Rolling Element Bearing Feature Extraction and Anomaly Detection Based on Vibration Monitoring\224 Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation pp. 17921797, June 2008   B  Wu A. Saxena, R Pat r i c k-Al daco, and G Vachtsevanos, \223Vibration Monitoring for Fault Diagnosis of Helicopter Planetary Gears,\224 Proceedings of 16th IFAC World Congress July 2005   R  R  Schoen T. G. Habet l e r, F. Kam r an, and R G Bartheld, \223Motor bearing damage detection using stator current monitoring,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Appl  vol. 31, no. 6, pp. 1274\2261279, Nov./Dec. 1995   M  B a y but t  S. Nanduri  P W. Kalgren, D. S. Bodden N. S. Clements and S. Alipour, \223Seeded Fault Testing and In-situ Analysis of Critical Electronic Components in EMA Power Circuitry,\224  IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2008    N H M a lik, A. A. Al-Arainy and M I. Quereshi 223Electrical Insulation in Power Systems\224, Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1998    S. Nandi and H. A. Tol i y at  223C ondi t i on m oni t o ri ng and fault diagnosis of electrical machines \226 A review,\224 in Proceedings of the 34th Annual Meeting of the IEEE Industry Applications pp. 197-204, 1999   P. J. Tavner and J Penm an 223 Condition Monitoring of Electrical Machines 224 Res. Studies Press, 1987   C Xi anrong, V. C o cquem pot and C C h ri st ophe 223A model of asynchronous machines for stator fault detection and isolation,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Electron  vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 578\226584, Jun. 2003   J Penm an H G. Seddi ng, B A. Ll oy d, and W. T Fink, \223Detection and location of interturn short circuits in the stator windings of operating motors,\224 IEEE Trans. Energy Convers vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 652\226 658, Dec. 1994    D. Hansel m a n, \223B rushl e ss Perm anent M a gnet M o t o r Design,\224 The Writers' Collective, 2003   S. E. Lyshevski, \223Elect romechanical Systems, Electric Machines, and Applied Mechatronics\224, CRC Press Boca Raton, FL, 1999   D. Y. Ohm Dy n am i c M odel of PM  Sy nchronous Motors," Drivetech, Inc Blacksburg, Virginia www.drivetech.com     L. Youngkook and  T. G. Habet l e r, \223A St at or Turn Fault Tolerant Strategy for Induction Motor Drives in Safety Critical Applications,\224 IEEE PESC \22206 June 


 12 18-22 2006   M Johansson, "The Hi l b ert t r ansform  M a st er Thesi s  of Mathematics / Applied Mathematics, V\344xj\366 University, March 1999  E. B. Saff, A. D. Snider., \223Com plex analysis for mathematics, science and engineering\224, Prentice-Hall Inc., New York, 1976    Henri c i  Pet e r, \223Appl i e d and com put at i onal com p l e x analysis\224, Vol. 1, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 1988  M Orchard, G. Kacprzynski, K. Goebel, B. Saha, and G. Vachtsevanos, \224Advances in Uncertainty Representation and Management for Particle Filtering Applied to Prognostics,\224 PHM08 Conference Denver CO, October 2008    B Zhang, C Scony ers, C B y i ngt on, R Pat ri c k, M  Orchard, G. Vachtsevanos, \223Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults,\224 PHM Conference Denver CO, October 2008    R Pat ri c k, M Orchard B. Zhang, M. Koelemay, G Kacprzynski, A. Ferri, G. Vachtsevanos, \223An Integrated Approach to Helicopter Planetary Gear Fault Diagnosis and Failu re Prognosis,\224 42nd annual Systems Readiness Technology Conference AUTOTESTCON 2007 Baltimore, USA, September 2007 B IOGRAPHY  Douglas W. Brown received the B.S degree in electrical engineering from the Rochester Institute of Technology in 2006. He is a recipient of the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate \(NDSEG Fellowship and is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering at the Georgi a Institute of Technology specializing in control system s. His research interests include incorporation of Prognostics Health Management PHM\contro l. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Douglas was employed as a project engineer at Impact Technologies where he worked on incipient fault detection techniques, electronic component test strategies and diagnostics/prognostic algorithms for power supplies and RF component applications  George Georgoulas received Diploma and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Patras Patras in 1999 and 2006, respectively He joined the ICSL in October 2006 as a postdoctorate. His research interests include intelligent data analysis and development of decision support systems for complex systems  Hyeon Bae was born in Jinju, Korea, in 1973. He graduated in electrical engineering from Gyeongsang National University, Korea, in 1999. He received the M.S. and Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Pusan National University, Korea, in 2001 and 2005 respectively. He was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Research Institute of Computer Information and Communication \(RICIC Imaging and Information Tec hnology Center \(IITC\, Pusan National University, in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, he was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Georgia Institute of Technology, GA, U S.A. His research interests are data mining, intelligent system and control, and intelligent manufacturing system \(IMS  George J. Vachtsevanos is a Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He was awarded a B.E.E. degree from the City College of New York in 1962, a M.E.E. degree from New York University in 1963 and the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from the City University of New York in 1970. He directs the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech where faculty and students are conducting resear ch in intelligent control neurotechnology and cardiotec hnology, fault diagnosis and prognosis of large-scale dynamical systems and control technologies for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. His work is funded by government agencies and industry. He has published over 240 technical papers and is a senior member of IEEE. Dr. Vachtsevanos was awarded the IEEE Control Systems Magazine Outstanding Paper Award for the years 2002-2003 \(with L. Wills and B. Heck awarded the 2002-2003 Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Distinguished Professor Award and the 2003-2004 Georgia In stitute of Technology Outstanding Interdisciplinary Activities Award  Robert H. Chen received the Ph.D degree in mechanical engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 2000. He is currently a Senior Research Engineer at Northrop Grumman Corp., Integrated Systems Sector, Western Region. His research interests include fault detection, identification, and reconstruction with applica tion to distributed aerospace systems, guidance and contro l of aerospace vehicles, and homing missile guidance and estimation  


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


