Abstract Association rule mining has been typically used in transaction databases to understand correlation between various items and/or events. This paper describes a work done in the education sector in India to understand association of various dimensions of behavior of school children and represents a case which has actually been executed successfully 1. Introduction Education institutes like schools are the nursery for future minds of a nation. Knowledge represents the intangible assets of the organization Buckman, 2004 Rylatt, 2003\ In a school, it is readily observed that knowledge is both the process and product of the 
organization. Knowledge and its management is the business of schools. It would be difficult to find disagreement with this assertion. However it has been found schools are notoriously poor with their own management processes. Majority of the school management faces common set of problems in their schools, which they would like to address.  However they lack   understanding of advancement in the use of Information Systems for better decision making maintains the status quo of these problems. For example the school management would like to understand 
performance patterns of a particular student Performance patterns would help in understanding a student s strong and weak areas. Performance pattern study would help in taking necessary preventive steps School teachers and respective authorities frequently find various event correlations as a part of their daily experience. For example, a student who is good at languages will be good at literary activities like essaywriting, students who are good at mathematics may be good at arts or creativity, students who are good at sports may not good at studies etc. However, if there are inverse performance patterns in the same field under 
different situations by students, this would call for attention.  For example, if a student is seen to be good in languages and not good at literary events, then she should be given extra care so that she can pick up in literary events. Students also have problems in deciding their career path based on their individual aptitude These problems were highlighted while discussing the use and applicability of integrated information systems with a day-boarding school named Anand Niketan at Ahmedabad, India. The need was getting clearly defined \(as discussed later in this paper we tried using a couple of data mining techniques for 
better understanding of few patterns being exhibited by the students. Extensive experiments are being conducted to come up with better ideas on  the need and suitability of such systems in Indian schools. In this paper, we discuss the case on usage and suitability of these techniques at Anand Niketan school.. One such application of Information System techniques has been adopted by the school authority as a part of their routine exercise. We conducted a survey among teachers, and school management to understand the suitability and usefulness of data mining techniques in school. We also present the result of these surveys in this paper. The rest 
of the paper is organized as follows: in section 2, we present the case of Anand Niketan and in section 3 glimpses of the technique used. Although we have used and continue  to address a number of issues in the school using data mining, but in this paper, we limit discussing only one such application \(Question #1 in table 1\In section 4, we discuss the results of experiment and present the findings of stakeholders survey in section 5 Section 6 presents the previous work done in this domain using the set of tools discussed in the paper and concluding with the road ahead 
2. Anand Niketan A Day Boarding School in Ahmedabad, India Anand Niketan, if translated in English, would mean an abode of joy. It is a day-boarding school at Ahmedabad and started in 1996 by an NGO group with only two classes and twenty students. The school management believes in the principle that children will start learning the moment they feel excited about it  Hence, from the days of incubation, the philosophy of the school has been learning and not teaching. The school management believed in a simple philosophy that every child has the potential to grow into wonderful 
human beings, provided that they are given correct guidance. Through this, children can discover their own path and create destinies. With the practice of this philosophy, by the end of year 2005,, they had more than Using Association Rule Mining for Behavioral Analysis of School Students: A Case from India Rajanish Dass Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad Vastrapur, Ahmedabad, Gujarat India 380015 rajanish@iimahd.ernet.in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


800 children studying in classes from Nursery to Standard 12 However, school management s difficulties aggravated with rise in number of students and staff along with increased competition from other schools in the locality. The school management thought of improving some of their core processes to enable better understanding of their students performance and providing individual attention to students. However, the teachers were in dilemma regarding monitoring students  performance in non-academic activities, which remain ungraded. However, they considered these non-academic activities crucial fo students overall growth. With these dilemmas in mind, the school management wanted to answer the following questions \(as represented in table 1\  was exploring the possible  usage of IT in solving these problems 1 How fast can we understand the behavior of each student better than before 2 How can we ensure quality of delivery of education to every child while teachers keep on changing 3 How can we convert information about individual students into actionable knowledge 4 How can IT be used for answering these questions as has been used in the corporate and scientific communities 5 How can these analyses be done in minutes as compared to weeks and days Table 1 Questions being asked by the school management of Anand Niketan Keeping these questions in mind, we approached the management of Anad Niketan about the data availability pertaining to each student s behavioral aspects as well as their performance records to be made accessible on a computer. A system was developed by an external software services firm to routinely capture these data for six months. Thereafter, we decided to use a couple of data mining techniques to look at the impact on the problems which were tried to be solved. In this paper we will discuss about the usage of association rule mining for students behavioral analysis 3. Glimpses of the Data Mining Techniques Used Although many detailed definitions of data mining exist in academic sources, an easy to understand definition of data mining is the process of discovering meaningful new correlations, patterns, and trends by sifting through large amounts of data stored in repositories and by using pattern recognition technologies as well as statistical and mathematical techniques Data Mining is a multi-disciplinary field with many relevant techniques 3.1 Association Rule Mining Association rules are one of the techniques used in data mining, and particularly useful with e-commerce transactional information. Association rules describe events that tend to occur together. They are formal statements in the form of X  Y, where if X happens, Y is likely to happen. Such a rule reveals that the transactions in the database, containing items in X tend to contain items in Y and the probability, measured as the fractions of the transactions containing X also containing Y is called the confidence of the rule. The support of the rule, is the fraction of the total transactions that contain all items both in X and Y Han & Kamber, 2001\ Out of the many techniques available, we have used the Apriori algorithm \(Agarwal, Imielinski, & Swami, 1993\e to its simplicity and ease of implementation 4. Data Mining Applications in Anand Niketan: Behavioral Analysis Using Patterns At Anand Niketan, Apriori algorithim was used to conduct experiments for analyzing students behavioural aspects. It is worth mentioning at this point that 70 per cent  of the teachers were unaware of data mining and its applicability in their context. In the following sub-sections, we will describe the applications in brief 4.1. Behavioral Analysis using Association Rule Mining One of the major concerns of the school management and the teachers was about getting a rough idea of the students behavioral patterns. This posed a problem as they are not captured in academic examination,. albeit the school has a strong inclination towards students holistic development. The teachers had a guess of students behavioural aspects, but were nonconfident due to lack of data.  They lacked quantitative measure and no correlations existed to provide them with sufficient inputs on concerned students behavioral aspects.. To get some clues towards the solution of this problem, we asked the school management and teachers to list types of behavioral aspects they think actually worth to look at. The teachers and concerned authorities of the school \(with the help of an external behavioral psychoanalyst\came up with such a list of fifteen attributes, like attentiveness, cleanliness, class participation, discipline, cooperation etc. \(a complete list of these factors is as provided in table  2, attributes have been ordered alphabetically and not on relevance significance or importance Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


Attentiveness Class Participation Cleanliness  Cooperation Discipline Emotional Stability  Home Assignment Innovation Knowledge Presentation Leadership Participation  Performance Self Confidence Social Bonding  Subject Knowledge Table 2 List of Behavioral Attributes that the School wanted to have a look at Once the list of these attributes was finalized we took some sample classes for experimentation. The teachers were asked to mark corresponding attributes for each student in the sampled classes for a particular term After data was collected, we found attributes \(in a particular class\ where most of the students were strong as shown in figure 1\nd attributes in which the students are weak \(as shown in figure 2\e applied Apriori algorithm to find correlation between these attributes to give the teachers and decision makers an idea about the correlation between parameters. The support and confidence threshold was varied to see the impact on the results. However, later it was decided that the support threshold be kept at 60% cut-off.  60% cutoff would give the decision makers insight about the patterns occurring at least in 60% of students, or majority of the class. The confidence threshold was kept at 40 At the given thresholds, we found majority of the students of a particular class \(with 28 students\were showing strength in behavioral attributes like class participation, cleanliness, cooperation, discipline emotional stability and doing home assignments \(as shown in figure 1\hereas, majority of the students were weak in attributes like innovation, leadership performance, self-confidence and presentation skills \(as shown in figure 2\he correlation between these attributes in forms of association rules were also found and shown to the teachers. To keep things simpler for teachers, we had shown them the patterns of length two only. For example, we found that students, who are attentive in class, are also good in class participation and cooperation \(as shown in figure 3\imilarly, rules for behavioral attributes where students were showing weakness were also found \(figure 4 These results were then easily mapped for individual student which helped the teachers to discuss about the next steps to overcome weakness areas. For example, the above figure indicates areas that needed attention were increasing innovativeness, leadership etc The school administration immediately took requisite steps to introduce necessary bridge-up courses and exercises so that these behavioral attributes may be attended. In areas of strength of a student as well this had significant importance. For e.g. if student is more attentive then there are high chances of that she must like cleanness and like to participate in class activities Whenever a teacher sees that a student is attentive but is not enough participative in class activities, with some simple remedial steps, the teacher can bring in the behavioral change Moreover, with the bar graph, related attributes can be easily referred by the teachers, which was of great help to them. In addition to this, the teachers actually cross checked these behaviors and said it to be correct which is reflected in th e survey presented in the following section\.  As supposed by the Management a regular exercise would strike two birds with one stone First, it would help to gauge any improvements in students weak areas and secondly if teachers are giving enough attention to individual students to build up all aspects of a particular student Figure 1  Finding Attributes where most students are strong Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


Figure 2 Finding attributes where most students are weak 5. Understanding Impact of Association Rules for Behavioral Attributes To understand the impact and correctness of this exercise, we conducted a survey by administering a questionnaire to the school teachers and the principal at Anand Niketan. To have it cross checked, we also administered the questionnaire to the external consultant psychoanalyst. To save space, we have indicated the questions and their responses in Appendix only Figure 3. Finding length two attribute-patterns where most of the Students \(who are already strong and above support level\e also good at \(above confidence level 6. Conclusion & Future Work Use of data mining techniques in schools and education institutes is incr easing interest \(Petrides Guiney, 2002\he emerging interest in the application of data mining and related techniques in schools has been prominently stated in education literature as well Kongshem, 1999; Streifer, 1999\dditionally, school districts are implementing technology applications at the administrative level as a means to execute data-based decision making that affects the organization and its students \(Bushweller, 2000\Moreover, association rule mining has also been reported to be used for better marketing to target right school students \(Ma, Liu Luan, 2004\ his executive report also discusses the application of data mining techniques for higher education, typically for the purposes of understanding student registration and forecasting credit hours etc. However, we have not found any references of using association rule mining techniques for analyzing behavioral patterns in schools. Experiments on using Data Mining techniques are also being carried out in Anand Niketan. For example, we are exploring the idea of using clustering techniques for coming up with an intelligent grading system. This will form clusters based Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


on total marks of students as well as subject wise for understanding and analysis of each student s performance. The research is also planned for testing suitability of these techniques in appraisal of teachers analyzing activities of students and expectations of parents, alumni interaction etc. We also plan to study the acceptability of the technology concerned by the endusers, their reactions and managing that transformation efficiently. Future work will also deal with replicating the study to rural and semi-urban schools.  To study usage of these techniques and having an integrated school information system may promise to provide better education to students of these schools, otherwise poor in infrastructure Figure 4 Finding length two attribute-patterns where most of the Students \(who are already weak and above support level\e also weaker above confidence level 7. Acknowledgement The author is grateful to the teachers and the management of Anand Niketan Day Boarding School for all the support and help for this research. Special thanks to Mr. Fathepuria, Principal of Anand Niketan. Thanks are also due to Mr. Abhay Panjiar of Ceon Solutions for helping in the data collection 8 Reference Agarwal, R., Imielinski, T., & Swami, A. "Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Datasets". In Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data ACM, Washington,D.C., \(1993\, \(pp. 207-216 Buckman, R.. "Building a Knowledge Driven Organisation". New York: McGraw Hill, \(2004 Bushweller, K.. "The Smarter Office". Electronic School, 187\(3 National School Boards Association, \(2000\, 26-28 Han, J., & Kamber, M.. "Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques" CA Academic Press, \(2001 Kongshem, L. Smart Data: "Mining the School District Data Warehousing Electronic School 1999  Luan, J D ata Mining Applications in Higher Education  Executive Report No. DMHEWP-1004, SPSS, \(2004 Ma, Y., Liu, B., Wong, C. K., & Yu, P. "Targeting the Right Students Using Data Mining  Paper presented at the ACM SIGKDD Yorktown Heights, New York, \(2000, March Petrides, L. A., & Guiney, S. Z.. "Knowledge Management for School Leaders: An Ecological Framework for Thinking Schools Teachers College Record 104 2002\, 1702-1717 Rylatt, A.. "Wining the knowledge game: Smarter learning for business excellence Butteworth-Heinman, Burlington, MA 2003 Streifer, P. A. "Putting the "byte" in educational decision making Education week 1999 18 27 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Appendix Question No Reply  Not at all  Little  Moderate  High  Total  Q1 How much are you aware about the Association Rule Analysis to understand the Trend in Student's Behavior, after the experiments are conducted 6 0 6 35 53 100 Q2 How, according to you, does Association Rule Analysis helps in finding Attitude and Trend of Every student in various attributes 6 0 0 35 59 100 Q3 Does Association Rule Analysis help in understanding how many students are weak in various Attributes 0 0 0 12 88 100 Q4 Does Association Rule Analysis helps in understanding trends in Students' Behavior and finding Correlation between them 0 0 18 18 65 100 Q5 Has Association Rule Analysis helps in identify Attributes which indicates that students are away from trend 6 0 0 29 65 100 Q6 How much Datamining help in Education sector to quickly understand the trend in Performance and guide students on various aspects 6 0 0 6 88 100 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  We observed that eight months after system introduction, the perceived benefits in terms of the individual performance appeared to be greater than the perceived benefits for the group as a whole One possible explanation for this finding is that up until this point the implementation strategy had focused on appropriation of the technological tool by individuals rather than on group benefits Furthermore, the fact that the physicians were not yet using SyMO may also explain the modest results in terms of improved communication between the care unit's nurses and physicians  As a final step, we compared the nurses  perceptions using objective data obtained from managerial reports. We obtained managerial reports for four 28-day periods: two periods preceding the SyMO deployment \(12 months and 6 months before deployment\ and two periods following system deployment \(3 months and 8 months after deployment\. We used the same weeks of the year in order to control for seasonal variations  Based on the results in Table 6, we were able to draw a certain number of conclusions concerning the actual benefits eight months after the SyMO deployment. First, system use increased the number of patients treated, which rose from 211 \(in the Pre periods\ to 223 \(in the Post periods\ince the total number of days worked was virtually unchanged after the SyMO deployment, this change represents a 6% net increase in the number of patients treated t 2.3; p=.04  Second, we observed that the average number of home visits made by a nurse during her shift also rose; if we compare the data from periods P1 and P3 \(August-September\, we see that the average number of home visits made by a nurse per shift rose by 0.5 visit t 2.2; p=.04\The results are even more significant when we compare periods P2 and P4 \(January-February\, since the increase was approximately 0.7, on average t 3.1; p=.02\ addition, we note that the average number of home visits continued to rise from the third to the eighth month of use, at a rate of 0.4 visit. This finding is even more encouraging, given the fact that new case referrals \(which require creating patient files, a task that is considerably more time consuming than a regular case management visit\ peaked in the Post 2 period when they represented 60% of all active patients  Table 6. Effects of SyMO on Individual and Group Productivity   Pre-deployment Post 1 Post 2 Period P1 Period P2 Period P3 Period P4 Number of active patients 101 110 115 108 Number of new cases 48 62 37 65 New cases / number of active patients 48 56% 32% 60 Number of regular nurses \(# of days 9 \(68 7 \(95 7 \(60 6 \(95 Nursing assistants \(# of days  1 \(2\ \(1\ \(2 Number of agency nurses \(# of days 3 \(24 4 \(4 3 \(31 1 \(5 Total number of days worked 92 101 92 102 Availability for direct care \(# of days 87 96 87 97 Number of home visits 311 368 361 438 Number of visits / active patient 3.1 3.3 3.1 4.1 Average # of visits / nurse / shift 3.6 3.8 4.1 4.5 Average visit length \(in minutes 44 42 47 47 time spent in direct care 44% 43% 52% 57 P1=Aug 19 to Sept 15 2006; P2=Jan 7 to Feb 3 2007; P3=Aug 19 to Sept 15 2007; P4=Jan 8 to Feb 2 2008 This corresponds to the number of days available for direct patient care. It has been estimated that 5% of a nurse's total working time is spent in other activities, including discussing cases and other meetings training, recovering and returning patient files from archives, and entering data on their interventions in their unit's computer system. The average number of visits and the percentage of time spent in direct care have been calculated on the basis of the time available for direct care    Third, we examined the system's effect on the percentage of time the nurses spent providing direct care to patients. If we compare the data from periods P1 and P3 \(August-September\d those of periods P2 and P4 \(January-February\, we see a significant increase in the percentage of time spent providing direct care: 8 t 3.7; p=.015\d 14  t 4.9; p=.003\ respectively. In summary, eight months after system deployment the nurses were spending 57% of their time providing direct care to patients. It should be noted that among the data collected from questionnaires at the end of January the nurses indicated providing an average of 4 hours and 24 minutes of direct care per shift. This represents slightly more than 60% of their total work time. In terms of data triangulation, we found very high convergence between the objective data from the managerial reports\ and the perceptual data \(from interviews and questionnaires  Finally, it is worth noting that the use of private nursing agencies did not fall after the SyMO system was introduced. Again comparing the data from periods P1 and P3 \(August-September\with those from periods P2 and P4 \(January-February we see that the percentages associated with the number of days worked by nurses from private agencies remained relatively unchanged. In addition, we see that the effect of SyMO had not yet been felt in terms of the expected reduction in the number of overtime hours. One possible explanation may be the fact that many regular nurses worked in the two post-deployment periods a total of 13 nurses\s compared to the two predeployment periods \(a total of 16 nurses\. It should also be noted that this type of structural effects may take months to appear   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


   5. Discussion  In light of the ageing of the population and the increasing pressure on health care systems, a new form of telehomecare, which allows clinicians to integrate the care process on site  at the patient s home, appears to be a promising approach for increasing nurses performance as well as patient accessibility to care services  This study presents an evaluation of the individual and organizational effects resulting from a provider-focused telehomecare intervention implemented in an oncology and palliative care unit in Quebec, Canada. The longitudinal nature of the study, which allowed a pre and post evaluation and the triangulation of the data collection methods used allowed rigorous analysis of the results and represent a significant strength of this research  The analysis of the qualitative and quantitative data allows us to make certain observations. First in terms of adoption, the nurse users were quickly able to adapt to and adopt the new system. They showed a positive attitude toward the system and were satisfied with the quality of the information stored in the system, which appeared to be of great value for recalling patient information during a visit. According to the nurses, the clinical information system increased the completeness and quality of their interventions in the patient home mostly in terms of patient assessment, treatment and education  Second, after eight months of system use significant gains were observed in terms of the number of home visits and, indirectly, the time spent providing direct patient care. However, we should mention that most of the nurses we interviewed appeared to believe that the number of home visits would only be maximized once the system would be able to update the information in real time and through remote access. For this purpose, approximately seven months after SyMO was deployed, remote system access was provided to two nurses who lived a considerable distance from the hospital. These nurses were then able to download patient data in their homes at the start of the day and begin their visits with all the relevant and current information in hand. Before this change, these nurses made their home visits without the benefit of all the most current information on their patients, such as state of health, recent changes to their medication, etc  Finally, in terms of productivity we observed a significant increase in the number of patients treated by all the nurses \(p=.04\, the average number of home visits made by a nurse per shift p=.02\d the percentage of time spent by nurses providing direct care \(p-.003\ sum, the main advantages of the SyMO system from the point of view of nursing staff appear to be increasing the number of patients treated \(access\, increased home visits \(access\, spending more time with patients efficiency\nd less time spent on documentation efficiency  For the administrative authorities at the hospital, the success of the SyMO project also lays in the quality and continuity of care provided to patients. We intend to evaluate these important outcomes in the coming months based on a series of semi-structured interviews with patients, nurses and hospital managers  In short, despite the positive results obtained, it is important to note that continuous assessment of the effects of the provider-based telehomecare intervention over a longer period of time is important to monitor the progress of the project Future replication of this type of analysis, with larger samples of providers and in other settings would further strengthen the conclusions and allow better generalizability of these findings  6. Conclusion  Introducing the SyMO software application in an oncology and palliative care unit represents a significant organizational change. This change had positive effects on staff productivity as well as on accessibility to care services. The success of this project required a sustained commitment from the decision makers involved \(the hospital administrators and managers on the care unit considerable change management effort from the members of the project team, and close collaboration with the informatics supplier  Although nurses represented the main category of health professionals targeted when SyMO was introduced, the system may eventually be used by other professionals in particular, physicians  and this should accentuate the gains in terms of quality and continuity of care. It should also be pointed out that collateral gains in terms of fewer visits to hospital emergency rooms and hospitalizations are expected in the long term as a consequence of better case management and better ongoing care for this client group. According to the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  hospital's administration, such gains clearly represent savings to the hospital  Finally, we cannot overlook the potential for improved quality of life for the key stakeholders  the patients in terms of a reduction in the emotional and financial traumas associated with hospitalization and being separated from their families and homes. Future research needs to be conducted to assess the extent to which this novel form of telehomecare intervention has a significant impact on patients quality of life  7. References    Can a dia n In st itute f o r Health  In f o r m a tion   How healthy are rural Canadians? An assessment of their health status and health determinants, September 2006, 182 pages, http://secure.cihi.ca \(site consulted on May 24, 2008  2 Cl a i r  M  Le s so l u t i o ns   m e r ge nt e s   Commission d tude sur les services de santé et les services sociaux, Ministère de la santé et des services sociaux Gouvernement du Québec, 2000, 410 pages    Kirby M. T h e h eal th o f  C a n a dian s  The federal role. Volume six Recommendations for reform. Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs Science and Technology, Ottawa, October 2002, 33 pages  4  Ro m a n o w   R.J B u ild in g o n v a lu e s T h e  future of health care in Canada Commission on the Future of Health Care in Canada. Ottawa, November 2002, 356 pages  5 Ca na d a H e a l t h I nfo w a y Ca na d a H e a l t h  Infoway Home Telehealth Business Case Report, April 23, 2007, 102 pages http://www.infoway-inforoute.ca/en/pdf Home_Telehealth_Business_Case_Report pdf \(site consulted on May 24, 2008    Ma y C  Fi n c h T  Mair F  Mort M Towards a wireless patient: Chronic illness, scarce care and technological innovation in the United Kingdom  Social Science & Medicine, 2005, 61 pp.1485-94    Wootton R  Di m m i c k S  L  Kv edar J.C   Home telehealth: Connecting care within the community. The Royal Society of Medicine Press: London, 2006   Miller E.A   Solving the disjuncture between research and practice: Telethealth trends in the 21 st century Health Policy 2007, 82, pp.133-41    B e n atar D. B o n d m a ss M. G h itel m a n J    Avitall B Outcomes of chronic heart failure Archives of Internal Medicine 2003, 163, pp.347-52    P a ré G. J aan a M. & Sicotte C   Systematic review of home telemonitoring for chronic diseases: The evidence base Journal American Medical Informatics Association, 2007 14\(3\, pp.269-277    J aan a M. P a ré G. & Sicotte C   Hypertension home telemonitoring Current evidence and recommendations for future studies Disease Management and Health Outcomes, 2007, 15\(1\, pp.1931    Jaan a M P a r G Home telemonitoring of patients with diabetes: A systemic assessment of observed effects  Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice 2007, 13\(2\pp.242-53    B a raldi S Me m m o la M How healthcare organizations actually use the internet's virtual space: A field study  International Journal of Healthcare Technology & Management, 2006, 7\(3/4 pp.187-207    Glas er BG Strau s s AL T h e dis c ov er y  of grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative research. Aldine: Chicago, IL 1967    Miles MB   H u ber m a n  A M Qu alita tive  data analysis: An extended sourcebook Sage Publications: Beverly Hills, CA 1994  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


   Appendix A. Excerpt of the interview guide used with nurses   Background and Context   How long have you been working in the oncology and palliative care unit? How long have you been working as a nurse in general  How would you describe the work environment in the oncology and palliative care unit? Explain  How much experience did you have with computers before the SyMO project was initiated What about other nurses in the unit  Attitudes, Satisfaction and Usage   How satisfied are you so far with the use of the SyMO software  In your viewpoint, what are its main advantages and weaknesses? Explain  How would you qualify nurses understanding of how SyMO works at this point in time? Explain  How smooth has been the adaptation to and appropriation of the new system in the first few days of usage  Do you use SyMO every time you visit a patient If not, why? Which functionalities do you use most and least? Explain  Perceived Outcomes   What have been the major benefits associated with the use of SyMO at this point in time, both from an individual perspective and from a unit standpoint Explain  Ultimately, the most significant beneficiary of SyMO should be the patient. Has this been achieved in your case? Explain  Appendix B. Excerpt of the interview guide used with project team members  Background and Context   Please summarize your professional career up until now. How much experience do you have in the design and implementation of clinical information systems  How long have you been working in the oncology and palliative care unit/health center/consulting firm  What has been your role in the design implementation and deployment of SyMO in the oncology and palliative care unit? Explain  To what extent would you say nurses were sophisticated computer users before the system was introduced to them  Attitudes, Satisfaction and Usage   In your opinion, how satisfied are nurses with the use of the SyMO software so far? Explain  If you had to characterize the transition from the paper environment to the computer-based environment, what would you say? Have you felt any form of resistance from nurses  What do you perceive to be the main advantages and weaknesses of SyMO? Explain  How would you qualify nurses understanding of how SyMO works at this point in time? Explain  Perceived Outcomes   What have been the major benefits associated with the use of SyMO at this point in time, both from an individual perspective and from a unit standpoint Explain    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11 R EFERENCES     Reddy, M.K. and S.M. Reddy 223Detecting FET Stuck-Open Faults in CMOS Latc hes and Flip-Flops,\224 IEEE Design and Test of Computers Vol. 3 , No. 5 , pp. 17-26, October 1986   2 R Mad g e , M. Vilg is, a nd V. Bhide, "Achieving Ultra High Quality and Reliability in Deep Sub-Micron Technologies using Metal Layer Configurable Platform ASICs", MAPLD 2005    Kewal Sal u ja, \223Di g i t a l Sy st em Fundam e nt al s, Lect ure 11\224, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin Madison    Yu W e i  Papos ng  M oo Ki t Lee Peng W e ng Ng C h i n  Hu Ong, \223IDDQ Test Challenges in Nanotechnologies: A Manufacturing Test Strategy\224, Asian Test Symposium 2007. ATS apos;07. 16 th Volume , Issue , 8-11 Oct. 2007 Page\(s\211 \226 211  NASA GSFC Advi sory NA-GSFC 2004-06   Dan El ft m a nn, Sol o m on W o l d ay and M i nal  Sawant  New Burn In \(BI\ethodology for Testing of Blank and Programmed Actel 0.15 \265m RTAX-S FPGAs MAPLD 2005   M i nal Sawant Dan El ft m a nn,  W e rner van den Abeel an John McCollum, Solomon Wolday and Jonathan Alexander 223Post Programming Burn-in of Actel O.25um FPGA\222s\224 MAPLD 2002  B IOGRAPHY   John worked 2 years at Faichild R&D on bipolar switching performance specifically platinum dopedlife time control and the development of Ion Implantation.  He worked 15 years at Intel developing Intel's first bipolar PROM, Ion Implantation, the world's first 16K DRAM, as well as 64K and 256K DRAMs.  Mr. McCollum developed Intel's first dual layer metal CMOS technology for the 386 microprocessor.  He co-founded Actel and worked the last 20 years on process, antifuse and flash cell development and FPGA Architecture at Actel.  He holds over 50 patents   covering Process Technology, Antifuse and NVM technology, FPGA Architecture, Analog Processing and Radiation Hardening.  He has presented numerous papers at IEDM, MAPLD, CSME, SPWG, and the FPGA Symposium. He is currently a Fellow in the Technology Development Department 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


