Knowledge Base Concepts in the KEA System Combined with Social Networking Techniques   Sabina Jeschke, Marc Wilke  University of Stuttgart RUS - Center of Information Technologies sabina.jeschke@rus.uni-stuttgart.de marc.wilke@iits.uni-stuttgart.de Nicole Natho, Olivier Pfeiffer Berlin University of Technology MuLF - Center for Multimedia in Education and Research natho, pfeiffer}@math.tu-berlin.de   Abstract  We present a knowledge management system for mathematics suggesting a combination of an 
information retrieval system with social networking techniques to overcome information flood in mathematical and natural scientific texts, and problems of merging databases within the system to structure our data efficiently. With regard to the increasing demand of knowledge management systems in all fields, especially mathematical knowledge management systems remain a major challenge Particularly systems that automatically extract information using natural language processing methods require a very different semantic analysis of texts than other field specific languages. In this regard a numerous number of information fragments has to be extracted based on the specifics of the underlying text structures. New concepts are needed to control this 
information flood. One possible approach is the use of social network techniques   1. Introduction  The mathematical and natural scientific knowledge contained in digital lectures and articles, used in numerous eLearning platforms lik d in other learning relevant applications, or just in texts in the World Wide Web, is increasing the demand for sophisticated knowledge retrieval and knowledge management systems. These numerous digital natural language texts are easy to find with search engines 
such as Google, but they emerge in diverse complexity factors. On top of everything, it is not easy to identify which prerequisites are necessary for experts and nonprofessionals alike - in order to read these texts efficiently To overcome the resulting information flood, we suggest using a knowledge management system. Such a system has three main purposes: creation, transfer and execution of knowledge. The following question has to be answered What is knowledge in this 
context, and how does it differ from the concepts of information and raw data Natural scientific language and especially the mathematical language are the formalization of thoughts embedded in logical conclusions. A simple analysis of raw material such as written text is not enough to develop a real comprehension of the content of these texts. Only reader her-/himself can induce comprehension by actively dealing with the context Following Leidner s w e c h aracterize s u c h  knowledge as personalized knowledge or personalized information respectively, which is related to facts 
concepts, ideas, etc. of a single person. For successful knowledge management, distinguishing between the different kinds of personified knowledge is important cognitive psychology \(cf. Anderson s i f i e s  knowledge in declarative and procedural while philosophy \(cf. Polanyi r ou ps  explicit and implicit knowledge. In written texts or spoken language we find explicit \(declarative\knowledge whereas implicit \(procedural\nowledge is the ability to use verbalized knowledge to logically conclude and 
reason, e.g. in mathematical proofs. In o n a k a  et al. use these two kinds of knowledge to create a theoretical foundations of knowledge management systems. Four distinct processes are the base of this approach socialization  combination, internalization  and externalization  The KEA-System bas e d on th is approach It  supports the idea of dynamic developing the user s knowledge through these four basic processes that are of importance for the comprehension of mathematical 
texts. Besides the theoretical foundation, the system is build up on the operative  strategic and normative  building blocks of Probst at al kn o w l e dge  identification knowledge acquisition and knowledge development knowledge distribution and usage and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


knowledge perpetuation The KEA system is designed to process data from mathematical and natural scientific texts to construct a system for users who have to deal with personalized information in mathematics and natural sciences such as students teaching- or academic staff, engineers, etc. via an internet platform \(knowledge identification We integrate explicit knowledge in the KEA system in terms of knowledge acquisition. The system tries to formalize explicit knowledge in an automatic way so that no human user is required to collect the data for integrating them into knowledge bases Different approaches to this challenge exist; one basic approach, which we follow, is the automatic generation of semantic annotations, based on ontologies describing the fields and structures of natural language texts themselves. The KEA system is based on natural language processing techniques, taking advantage of characteristic linguistic structures defined by the language use in natural scientific and mathematical texts \(see Figure 1 for an overview of the system creates knowledge bases based on these special language constructs, extracted from text fragments in textbooks or webpages. The system organizes and manages numerous single knowledge bases of different authors, texts and fields, and therefore, it develops new knowledge based on automatic extraction. In addition there is little influence which knowledge has to be integrated. The analysis of relevant knowledge content is relocated to the information retrieval of the KEA system    Figure 1. Overview of the KEA system At the backend, KEA has a web-based information retrieval system for different applications areas such as encyclopedias, library systems, and e-learning systems In this part of the system, system operators may determine knowledge usage and distribution. The system is designed such that it facilitates serving different kinds of applications for different kinds of users. All usable applications have in common that extracted information \(explici t knowledge to the needs of different backend users. The critical point of such a system is the sheer amount of data and merging processes of different knowledge bases In recent years, a new interesting field gained in importance in conjunction with the Web 2.0: social bookmarking. By using social bookmarking methods users can organize and manage tags in webpages in a very easy way. These tags can be shared with other users. The advantage of this concept is obvious: human readers who know content and relevance of internet resources classify and rank them in such an efficient way that no current automated system could do. By using social bookmarking techniques, the KEA system integrates the idea of Nona th i s  stage, implicit knowledge is rudimentarily integrated into the systems knowledge bases in the sense of the four basic processes: externalization, internalization socialization, and combination. The users interaction with the system induces the generation of personalized knowledge bases representing users standard of knowledge, and the improvement of the existing automated generated knowledge bases  However, the disadvantages are lacking standardization and the unstructuredness of tags apart from manipulative ranking methods. However, social bookmarking is widely used and has proven to be a very successful concept, offering efficient ways of bypassing the problem of manual metadata input for search engines by the authors We present a solution using social networking techniques with the KEA system to overcome the information flood and the problem of merging databases to structure our data efficiently. One approach uses the contained axiomatic structure of mathematical texts to establish different levels in knowledge bases for arranging text fragments from a coarse up to fine-grained structure level. For example the designator of a mathematical definition lives in a higher structure level in a database than the sentences defining this definition. Another approach is the appropriation of the user data to track the navigational structure and use of tags. Based on user data user profiles are constructed improving the knowledge base structure. In order to adapt to the user standard of knowledge and her/his navigational preferences the knowledge base is virtualized. In the context of social Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


bookmarking, users aid to integrate a missing ranking mechanism into the KEA system, which it cannot automatically extract of text fragments. This tagging technique not only deals with text fragments; beyond that equation fragments can also be tagged. By social networking techniques, we integrated human behavior and knowledge into the system to provide concepts for structuring our knowledge bases and merging mechanisms in an efficient way After the literature review in the following section we will briefly outline of the complexity of KEA system in section 3. We explain the structure of the knowledge bases and the possible merging concepts in section 4. To overcome the challenges of structuring data within the knowledge bases we represent possible solutions in section 5  2. Literature review  To date we have not learned of a knowledge management system similar to KEA regarded as a turnkey solution. This fact is probably induced because the KEA system is not a classical knowledge management system but rather a system for processing natural scientific and mathematical natural language information. Primarily it serves rather for processing of data \(explicit knowledge in texts\for the spreading of knowledge in the sense of implicit knowledge drawing conclusions in mathematics and natural sciences\plicit knowledge in mathematics and natural sciences can be only imparted through intensive studies of the subject by the user her-/himself  Therefore, the KEA System can only guide users to using the appropriate explicit knowledge. Therefore we use social network techniques to overcome these challenges. However, from the theoretical standpoint of view, the KEA system is based on the fundamental ideas of Nonaka [5, 6 d P r o b s t 8, 9    Furthermore, KEA consists of different components, which can be compared to other projects basic results on mathematical ontologies were accomplished by Gruber and Olse S E [12 is an example of a manually written mathematical ontology. Investigation on  English mathematical texts was accomplished by Baur n e x a m ple of a  manually assembled mathematical encyclopedia is MathWord [14  Germ d WordNet [16, 17 are intelligent thesauri providing a number of suitable synonyms and definitions for given queried expressions similar to the semantic analysis of M A RACHNA core project. Helbig v e s t i g ated  concepts for automated semantic analysis of the German language Mizar [19, 20 i s use d fo r  d e sc r i b i ng ma t h e m a t i c a l  proofs through a formal human and machine-readable language as input for an automated reasoning system DIAL s e s natu ral langu ag e f o r  mathematical validation in an automated reasoning system. HELM s es  m e t a dat a prov i d ed by au t h ors for semantic annotation of mathematical texts used in digital libraries. MoWGLi com b in a tion  w i t h  HELM is an information retrieval interface based on pattern matching within mathematical equations and logical expressions  3. The KEA System  The KEA system is a semi-automated knowledge management system based on natural language processing techniques taking advantage of characteristic linguistic structures defined by the used languages in natural sciences and mathematics. One of its core components is the mArachna system, the NLP subsystem, consisting of several separate components a pre-processed analysis for different text formats, the syntactical and semantic analysis The mArachna system implemented the TRALE system bas e d on h e add ri v e n ph ras e st ru ct u r e  grammars. Symbols and mathematical equations have to be processed separately in the mArachna System 26, 27 s e of  its  s p eci al s t ru c t u r es  T h e w h ole  analysis based on a linguistic approach i n g t h e  special structure of mathematical languages into account to describe content in an axiomatic way. Thus entities are principal carries of information in such texts. New syntactic and semantic rules are integrated through XML documents implemented by a Java Script In T h is gu aran t ees an easy acce s s  f o r al l  users to write new rules for the mArachna system, and improve our system by external users As a result of the semantic analysis the system creates complex triples structures \(information fragments\nnotated with addition information about the text corpus Another core component is the knowledge base system. All information fragments are integrated into the knowledge bases integrated by dint of the Javabased Jena Semantic Web Framework s a resu lt  the knowledge bases are easy manageable OWL documents [30Jen a prov ides retriev a l mechanisms such as SPARQL d an in terf eren ce  engine to extract information from such OWL documents The third component is the information retrieval provided through a web interface. We have two interface types: administrator interface and user interface. The administrator interface is a fixed Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


construction to provide direct access to all relevant internal structures to control the whole system such as graphical and textual in and outputs of different stages of the analysis, graphical representations of parts of the knowledge bases, etc. Moreover, we try to implement the administrator interface into Eclipse an  extension. The user interface follows the ideas of the desktop in a browser corresponding with the concept of Web 2.0 applications. So, the user has the possibility to display only preferred working tools \(desktop agents such as special searching and graphical agents. In addition, for each different user application encyclopedia, libraries, e-learning tools, etc.\ew and reusable desktop agents \(different searching agents graphical representations, history log files, tagging tools, and notepads\ be easily provided. The graphical realization based on the graphic tool package Graphvi th is  w a y W e b 2 0 an d s e m a n tic w e b  technologies r e com b in ed  4. KEA s knowledge bases system  Each triple \(cf. sec. 2\sists of nodes representing an expression, phrase or term, and the relation between nodes describes their associations Each relation exemplifies different types of linguistic phrases or key words. To support complex dependencies triples themselves are often used as nodes of other triples \(clustering\he resulting structures are very complex: for each element, it has to be decided whether it represents OWL classes or individuals of classes. Above all, we found ways of using OWL DL instead of OWL FULL which was a crucial factor in the beginning    Figure 2. Structure of a knowledge base  This process creates elaborated and intricate knowledge bases with convoluted and very finegrained structures. To guarantee consistency of the knowledge bases we pursue two strategies: At first each text generates a single independent knowledge base. Second, we use a semi-automated approach for new information fragments to encounter contradictions during the integration process  4.1. Knowledge base concept  Every single knowledge base is a complex and huge semantic network. Due to the fine-grained structure of texts in mathematics filler words are used as seldom as redundant information fragments. The language is precise. Each single sentence supports important information about the content. Thus an information flood is accumulated which has to be managed A knowledge base is a multidimensional object consisting of several levels based on linguistic structures where each level forms an ontology of the text. At the lowest level we find single words and symbols used within a text in a specific way. In the next level there is a collection of collocations or information fragments within the sentences which are used correlative. A single word or phrase is connected specifically with other phrases or words. In the next level we build up entities. Entities are objects such as definitions, theorems or prepositions. Each of these entities has a specific internal structure which is stored in this level. At the bottom most level we map the axiomatic structure of the text itself The technical implementation is based on the RDFbased Web Ontology Language \(OWL ed by the JENA Framew T h u s  w e i n teg r at e  semantic web standards, and build up semantic Metadata automatically. Additionally mind maps of text ontologies could be provided using common software tools, e.g. ProtÈg  The fragmentation into linguistic structure levels is the key component to support the merging processes to include social network techniques, and to implement the information retrieval mechanisms  4.2. Merging concepts  Due to the strategy that each text generates a new knowledge base, the system has to manage a lot of these databases. For retrieval mechanisms it is complicated to get access to the information, especially if same information fragments are spread above different knowledge bases The solution to this problem is unifying knowledge bases of identical content. For example: knowledge bases of the same mathematical field from different Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


authors have to be unified. In addition, tools and strategies for portioning unified knowledge bases into smaller ones have to be developed. Such smaller knowledge bases can be adapted to the preferences and requirements of specialized target groups \(e.g. students of engineering, physics or mathematics\ harmonize teaching material within courses Trying to do this we encounter some problems even in mathematics and natural sciences, different authors use different terms and axiomatic structures to describe similar content. The differences are so subtle that even a human reader needs profound knowledge to be able to manage them. Therefore, another strategy is to use a semi-automated approach in the KEA system but this has not proved satisfactory. Intervention by a human administrator through by means of an administrative web-based interface is not our primary intention. However, first tests show that this intervention is not the rule  5. Social networking in KEA  Social networking is an outstanding method for integrating human knowledge into knowledge bases and the usage of tagging mechanisms is already widely accepted amongst users. However, the disadvantages are lacking standardization and unstructuredness of tags apart from manipulative ranking methods Nevertheless, our database structures can benefit of the support of social networking    Figure 3. Internal structures of the knowledge base  5.1. Database Concept  Generally, there are two types of databases. First there exits knowledge bases which are containing semantic information fragments \(the semantic network of the analyzed texts In this regard, knowledge bases are split into two components: One component \(textual component manages pure text portions. The other component manages equations and symbols only Although from the outside it seems that there is a single knowledge base for all text-relevant issues, on the inside the system has to treat these two components as separated parts because of their different syntactical structures \(cf. Figures 2 and 3    Figure 4. KEA database system  The second database manages user profiles containing collected data about the users interaction with the system and information about the user itself KEA tracks user navigation through the system, and builds up user profiles using volunteer questionnaires or self-assessment tests to estimate standard of knowledge of a single user. In this database, we also include social networking components to store all bookmarks \(tags\ of the users. As a result, we get information fragments about the behavior of the user within our system. Figure 4 illustrates the database arrangement  5.2. Technical Concept  Standardized methods and techniques based upon open source projects are used to realize this project First, RDF 1 based languages to support semantic web technologies and store metadata for further processing is used. Furthermore, the knowledge bases and the some parts of the user profiles databases are based on   1 resource description framework Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


the Web Ontology Language \(OWL\ RDF-based language storing relationships between information fragments. Additionally, FOAF \(Friend of a Friend 39 is u s ed to sto r e in f o r m a t i o n ab o u t th e u s er a n d th e  tags adapted with slight modifications for our purposes, not restricted to personal data, but also containing everything of particular importance in the learning process like standard of knowledge, attended lectures and exercise courses. This standard is widely used in different kinds of social networks tools  to easily exchange, merge and reuse data describing people and relations between them, and for the process of creating and sharing tags for different formats pictures, weblogs, etc\. FOAF is also an RDF-based language. Consequently, we have the same basis of languages in such a way, that we are able to process all components together, or to query them with one automated search engine, which is able to analyze semantic web resource descriptions. Hence, the databases can be easily managed based on RDF     Figure 5. Technical concept of KEA  Input and output of the databases are controlled using the Java-based Framework JENA. JENA has several advantages: it supports OWL documents comes with a query language SPARQL and an interference engine to get additional information from our databases The knowledge bases can be analyzed graphically by the graphical tool kit Graphvi h e g r aph i cal  representation of the FOAF parts of the user profiles database are provided by the java-based tool TouchGraph ill u s tratio n of  th e techn i cal  concept, see Figure 5 5.3. Merging Concept with Social Networking  Merging databases appears to be the adequate means of overcoming the challenges information flood and semi-automated approach. In the following, the algorithm of merging those databases is described First virtual, i.e. databases not containing content but rather links to the content, databases belonging to each specific user are created \(cf. Figure 7 for an illustration\. Due to the high amount of users, many of these virtual databases have to be created. Of course similar virtual databases can be merged by checking out similarities In the knowledge bases, we will find information fragments. The user profile database has several layers  1  Tracking Layer tracking ways through the knowledge bases by the users him-/herself a  Used information fragments in the knowledge base b  Stop time of the a single information fragments c  Number of visits on a single information fragment 2  Social Network Layer Bookmarking a  Tags of information fragments b  Time of tagging \(history c  Exchange information to different user groups 3  Questionnaire Layer a  Personal data b  Knowledge standard c  Fields of interest d  Self assessment    Figure 6. Merging process for text knowledge bases  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


The tracking layer is build up with OWL whereas the social network and questionnaire layer is build up in FOAF Analysis of the databases is accomplished in a different way and analyzing knowledge bases is more differentiated than for user profile databases. As each information fragment of a text is important, every information unit is incorporated in the knowledge base In a completely automated procedure, the distinction between necessary, less necessary, or even wrong entries is very extremely time-consuming or even impossible. In the semiautomatic approach, a human expert can make the appropriate error corrections, for which the system inquires as soon as an inconsistency is noticed. First observations show however that there are only very few ambiguities. In order to automate this semi-automated procedure, the entries must be weighted and/or evaluated. The same problem arises during the merging process: if two homogenous units of information, however with different peculiarities are to be brought together with one another, it makes sense to use both respective entries, even though with different weights, corresponding to the page ranking methods: the more often an information fragment is used the higher its ranking gets    Figure 7. Virtual databases  When the knowledge bases are united, the linguistic layers are dissolved. At first, the axiomatic structure is merged, followed by the internal structure up to the word level. In this process, the collocationlayer plays a decisive role as the concept formation taking place in this layer can be mapped the most simply. The same process is carried out with formulae and the symbol knowledge base \(cf. Figure 6 ambiguities or inconsistencies arise in the individual levels, both variants are integrated and ranked. The more texts respectively knowledge bases are merged the better the obtained rankings are. During the linguistic analysis information supplementary to the actual semantic net in the knowledge bases, for example target group \(mathematicians, chemists, etc is stored, that can now be applied On the other side, we have the user-profile databases \(UPDB\hich have been produced by the human users and their navigation through the knowledge base. Therefore, these structures can be filed to the UPDB, based on the user s standard of knowledge. Comparison with the existing knowledge bases then generates the virtual database These virtual databases reflecting the human interaction with the system help structuring the databases and only information relevant for the specific user is selected for his/her navigation through the database. By examining the length of stay and frequency of the visits a decision about the importance of an information fragment can be concluded, which determines the ranking of these fragments. Based on this ranking the fine-structured portion of the database is dissolved and only the most significant components are mapped to the virtual database, yielding a customtailored database for each user For a general presentation of information social bookmarking, neglecting the individual s previous knowledge, by many persons is appropriate  6. Conclusion and future work  KEA is a semi-automatic web-based knowledge management system constructing and organizing knowledge bases for mathematical language to store maintain, and retrieve information combining different technologies and shall be extended to manage natural scientific texts also. Metadata is generated in form of RDF/OWL triples and FOAF documents, which can be used in Semantic Web environments. Social tagging technologies improve our knowledge results based on tracking methods of users knowledge, building tags and questionnaires. Desktop agents are provided to maintain and support the individual learning process motivation and the interest of user. Using such an environment, the users and administrators individual preferences are preserved. During further development a collaborative environment shall be evaluated to augment the user-friendliness of the system, to improve, and to test the system itself Caused by the way how we learn to understand mathematics and natural sciences the KEA system is not a classical knowledge management system. In the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


first stage, it is primarily a system to process data in form of explicit knowledge \(natural language texts  Generally, the system itself cannot impart implicit knowledge because the computer cannot draw conclusions. Thus, this task is left to the user, and can only be achieved by intensive studies of the subject 2   Therefore, the KEA system can only assist users to use the adequate explicit knowledge. For this purpose, we use social network. From the theoretical point of view the KEA system is based on the fundamental ideas of Nonaka d P r o b s t 8 9  Currently, KEA is a testbed analyzing mathematical texts written in German and partly in English, processing selected entities and texts blocks and successfully integrating the extracted information into knowledge bases. We provide parts of the user interfaces for administrators and the user interface for a mathematical encyclopedia. We try to analyze complete textbooks for different fields of mathematics starting with geometry because of the strong axiomatic structure of this particular field For evaluation purposes, KEA will be integrated in a cooperative knowledge space system used for mathematical learning environments. Such systems contain numerous entries of mathematical and natural sciences language constructs. This approach confronts KEA with a wide range of examples of correct and incorrect usage of mathematical language constructs In addition, our workgroup can create representative bookmarks for the system and further examine users  knowledge skills through tracking methods and questionnaires This is only the first step in documenting the users  skills and allows for guiding the user to improve or complete his/her knowledge, e.g. by taking additional courses, hints for additional literature and check for correlations between the usage of language and actual skills Finally, we are very interested to see which types of desktop agents will be developed by the users within the framework of KEA, and how social networks techniques improve the system  References  1 M o o d le M od ula r O b je c t O rie n te d D y nam i c L e a r ning  Environment http://www.moodle.org   2 M. A l a v i, D   L e idne r K now le dg e Ma nag e m e nt a nd Knowledge Management Systems: Conceptual Foundation and an Agenda for Research MIS Quarterly pp 107 136 March 2001   2 Automatic reasoning systems are another active field of research yet far from being applicable to our purposes 3 J  R. A nde rs on K o g n it iv e P s y c holog ie Spe k trum  Akademischer Verlag, Ed. 3 Heidelberg, Berlin, 2001  4 M  Pola ny i The Tacit Dimension University of Chicago Pr.; Corr. Ed. London, 1974  5 I  N ona k a  A Dy nam i c  T h e o r y of O r ga niz a tiona l Knowledge Creation Organized Science 5:1 pp. 14-37 1994  6 I. N o na k a H  T a k e uc hi T h e K now le dg e C r e a ting Company: How Japanese Companies Create the Dynamics of Innovation Oxford University Press New York, 1995  7 I. N o na k a N  K onna T h e Conc e p t of  Ba Building a Foundation for Knowledge Creation, California Management Review, 40:3, pp. 40-54, 1998  8 G  J  B   P r obs t S R a ub K   R o m h a r dt W i s s e n m a na g e n  Wie Unternehmen ihre wertvollsten Ressource optimal nutzen Betriebswirtschaftlicherverlag Dr. Th. Gabler 5. Ed 2006, Wiesbaden  9 G  J  B P r o b s t K  R o m h a r dt Buil ding Bl oc k s of Knowledge Management A Practical Approach Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commericales Universite de Geneve, Vol 102, 1997  1 N Natho   M A RACHNA Eine semantische Analyse der mathematischen Sprache f¸r ein computergest¸tztes Information Retrieval  PhD thesis Technische Universit‰t Berlin \(2005  11 T  G r u b e r, G  Olse An Ontology for Engineering Mathematics Technical Report KSL- 94-18, Stanford University \(1994  1 M Koh l h a se A  F r anke M B ase  Representing Knowledge and Context for the Intergration of Mathematical Software Systems Journal of Symbolic Computation 23:4  pp. 365 - 402 \(2001  13 J. Bau r  Syntax und Semantik mathematischer Texte  Master s thesis, Universit‰t des Saarlandes, FB Computerlinguistik. \(Nov. 1999  1 W o l f ram R e sear ch   MathWorld  http://mathworld.wolfram.com   15 G e rmaNet T e a m  GermaNet  http://www.sfs.unituebingen.de/lsd/english.html   1 C F e l l b a u m   WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database  MIT Press Cambridge, London \(1998  17 C  Fe ll ba um  WordNet  http://wordnet.princeton.edu   1 Hel b i g   Knowledge Representation and the Semantics of Natural Language \(Cognitive Technologies  November 2005\, Springer, Berlin  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


19 J  U r ba n MoMM Fast Interreduction and Retrieval in Large Libraries of Formalized Mathematics  Internation Journal on Artificial Intelligence Tools \(15\(1 2006 pp. 109 130  20 J  U r ba n MizarMode An Integrated Proof Assistance Tool for the Mizar Way of Formalizing Mathematics  J. of Applied Logic 2005  21 M P i nk a ll, J. Sie k m a nn, C. Be nz m  lle r, I. Kruijff Korbayova DIALOG  http://www.ags.uni-sb.de/~dialog   2 A  A s p e rti I P a do van i  C S acerd o ti I S c h e n a   HELM and the Semantic Web In Boulton, R.J., Jackson, P.B., eds Theorem Proving in Higher Order Logics, 14th Internat Conf., TPHOLs 2001, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, September 3-6, 2001, Proc.. Vol. 2152 of Lect. Notes in Computer Science Springer, 2001  2 A   A s p e rt i  S  Z acch i r o l i   Searching Mathematics on the Web: State of the Art and Future Developments  In Joint Proceedings of the ECM4 Satellite Conference on Electronic Publishing at KTH Stockholm, AMS - SM M Special Session Houston, 2004  24 S M  ller TRALE  www.cl.uni-bremen.de/Software/Trale   2 S  M  l l e r  Deutsche Syntax deklarativ: Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar f¸r das Deutsche  Linguistische Arbeiten No. 394. Max Niemeyer Verlag, T¸bingen \(2005  26 S. J e s c hk e  N  N a tho, O  P f e i ff e r a nd M. W ilk e \(2007  KEA - a Mathematical Knowledge Management System combining Web 2.0 with Semantic Web Technologies In Proceedings of the 4th IEEE 4th International Conference on Innovations in Information Technology. IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, pp. 138-142  27 S. J e s c hk e  N  N a tho, O  P f e i ff e r a nd M. W ilk e \(2008  Managing Mathematical Texts with OWL and Their Graphical Representation In: Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Proceedings of the HICSS 41, IEEE Computer Society Conference Publishing Services Waikoloa, HI 28 Moz illa Fo un da tio n Rhino: JavaScript for Java  http://www.mozilla.org/rhino   29 Jen a  A Semantic Web Framework for Java  http://jena.sourceforge.net   30 W o r l d W i de W e b c ons or tium W 3 C   Resource Description Framework \(RDF  http://www.w3c.org/RDF   31 W o r l d W i de W e b c ons or t i um W 3 C   Web Ontology Language \(OWL  http://www.w3c.org/2004/OWL   32 W o r l d W i de W e b c ons or ti um  W 3 C   RDF Vocabulary Description Language 1.0: RDF Schema \(RDFS  http://www.w3c.org/TR/rdf-schema  33 W o rl d W i de W e b c ons or tiu m  W 3 C SPARQL  http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query   34 Ec l i ps e F o u nda ti on  Eclipse  http://www.eclipse.org   3 A T  T Rese arch   Graphviz - Graph Visualization Software  http://www.graphviz.org   36 L  D odds  Introduction SPARQL: Querying the SemanticWeb  http://xml.com/lpt/a/2005/11/16/introducingsparql-querying-semantic-web-tutorial.html 2006   38 Sta n f o rd Cen t er f o r Bio m e d ical In f o rm atic s Res e arch   The ProtÈgÈ Ontology Editor and Knowledge Acquisition System  http://protege.stanford.edu   3 f o af p r o j ect  T h e Friend of a Friend \(FOAF\oject  http://www.foaf-project.org   4 Th e P e op l e s S ear ch E n gi n e   p l i n k  http://www.uoguelph.ca/~bcoe   41 IRC Com m unity Supp ort A g e n t \(Foa f bot   http://usefulinc.com/foaf/foafbot   42 T ouc hg r a ph TouchGraph Google Browser  http://www.touchgraph.com/TGGoogleBrowser.html   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


index interleaving in particular and so we had to expand the code to accommodate this lack As of this writing the proofs in CSP-prover of the above two results are incomplete We conclude from this effort that there are interesting challenges to automating proofs of AIDC workîows such as the ones for the mediator To summarize these results in less technical language there are three possibilities for the outcome of operator actions First there are actions that make progress by providing proper updates of the EHR This will occur when the nurse adheres to the speciìed workîow Second there are actions that lie within the protection envelope but do not make progress For example repeated reading of a patientês tag is tolerated by the system although it is not the speciìed workîow A detected error occurs when reading tags on two devices rather than on a patient and a device Third there are actions that corrupt the EHR database These require signiìcant deviation from speciìed workîow such as reading the tag on one patient and then collecting a reading from a different patient 7 Related Work We are not aware of any prior work on formal modeling and analysis of ADIC workîows in health care but formal techniques have been applied to workîows in general there have been case studies in heath care applications and there is a signiìcant body of non-formal work on AIDC in health care Yong et al in use CSP to model and reìne workîows to prove correctness properties Puhlmann et al  use the  calculus to model workîow patterns Stafansen sho ws ho w the Calculus of Communicating Systems CCS can be used to model workîow Davulcu et al  use Concurrent T ransaction Logic CTR to specify analyze and schedule workîows Van der Alast et al  use Petri nets to model w orkîo w  Petri nets are able to model Yet Another Workîow Language\(YAWL which in turn can model a wide range of workîow patterns Barkaoui et al  use Petri nets to model v erify and improve an operating room workîow Song et al 22 provide a classiìcation of computer-aided health care workîows and workîow application issues Van der Alast et al  describes a method for nding w orkîo ws as Petri nets automatically from hospital process logs Ardissono et al  present a frame w ork for the management of context-aware workîow systems They use the framework to develop a prototype application handling medical guidelines specifying workîow for monitoring patients treated with blood thinners In our research on AIDC we attempted to use  calculus and Finite State Machines FSMs before concluding that CSP was better-suited to our needs because of its algebraic notation simple treatment of communication and its representation for internal and external choice However it is likely other models discussed above could provide good formalisms for reasoning about AIDC AIDC techniques are now being used in many different areas in the health care sector One notable area is the use of AIDC techniques for the blood management to reduce blood handling errors so that the chances of bad blood transfusions is reduced Clarke et al 7 model and verify an in-patient blood transfusion process Al Nahas et al  o v ervie w research in v arious applications of RFID-based AIDC systems in hospitals Automated identiìcation of patients pro vides more accurate and efìcient association of patients with their medical readings and the medical procedures they should undergo AIDC techniques are being deployed to provide error-free and fully-audited drug management in hospitals 4 Hospital-wide AIDC 9 10 is being investigated for tracking patients assets and staff 8 Conclusion We have introduced a methodology for modeling and analyzing AIDC workîows to provide high assurance protection envelopes Such techniques will aid the development of computer and networking systems that support AIDC in safety-critical workîows like those used in hospitals To illustrate and demonstrate the value of our approach we have designed and implemented a medical mediator system which provides RFID identiìcation using a mobile device that links to medical devices to collect patient readings and enters them automatically in the EHR of the correct patient within wellspeciìed and veriìed conditions This is the rst work on formal analysis of AIDC workîows it contributes insight into good primitives for clear speciìcations in this area and promises wide applicability Acknowledgements This work was supported in part by NSF CNS 07-16626 NSF CNS 07-16421 NSF CNS 05-24695 ONR N00014-08-1-0248 NSF CNS 05-24516 DHS 2006-CS-001-000001 and grants from the MacAruthur Foundation and Boeing Corporation Anh Nguyen was supported by a fellowship from the Vietnam Education Foundation The views expressed are those of the authors only References  FDR2\(F ailures-Di v e r gence Reìnement internet website http://www.fsel.com  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 Transportstion Security Administration US Department of Homeland Security internet website www.tsa.gov   L Ardissono R Furnari A Go y  G Petrone and M Segnan Context-aware workîow management In L Baresi P Fraternali and G.-J Houben editors ICWE  volume 4607 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science  pages 47Ö52 Springer 2007  J Bardram Applications of conte xt-a w are computing in hospital work examples and design principles In H Haddad A Omicini R L Wainwright and L M Liebrock editors SAC  pages 1574Ö1579 ACM 2004  K Barkaoui P  Dechambre and R Hachicha V eriìcation and optimisation of an operating room workîow In HICSS  page 210 2002  M R Chassin and E C Becher  The Wrong P atient Ann Intern Med  136\(11 2002  L A Clark e Y  Chen G S A vrunin B Chen R L Cobleigh K Frederick E A Henneman and L J Osterweil Process programming to support medical safety A case study on blood transfusion In M Li B W Boehm and L J Osterweil editors ISPW  volume 3840 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science  pages 347Ö359 Springer 2005  H Da vulcu M Kifer  C  R  Ramakrishnan and I V  Ramakrishnan Logic based modeling and analysis of workîows In Proceedings of the Seventeenth ACM SIGACT-SIGMOD-SIGART Symposium on Principles of Database Systems June 1-3 1998 Seattle Washington  pages 25Ö33 ACM Press 1998  P  Fuhrer and D Guinard Building a smart hospital using rìd technologies In H Stormer A Meier and M Schumacher editors ECEH  volume 91 of LNI  pages 131 142 GI 2006  J Halamka Early e xperiences with positi v e patient identiìcation journal of healthcare information management Inf Syst  20\(1 2006  C A R Hoare Communicating Sequential Processes  Prentice-Hall 1985  B Houliston Inte grating RFID technology into a drug administration system In Bulletin of Applied Computing and Information Technology  2005  Y  Isobe1 and M Roggenbach CSP-Pro v er http://staff.aist.go.jp/y-isobe/CSP-Prover/CSPProver.html  J M C K ohn L T  and M S Donaldson T o err is human Building a safer health system http://www.nap.edu/catalog/9728.html  C.-L Lai S.-W  Chien L.-H Chang S.-C Chen and K Fang Enhancing medication safety and healthcare for inpatients using rìd Management of Engineering and Technology Portland International Center for  pages 2783Ö2790 5-9 Aug 2007  H A Nahas and J S Deogun Radio frequenc y identiìcation applications in smart hospitals In CBMS  pages 337Ö342 IEEE Computer Society 2007  U of California at San Die go W ireless internet information system for medical response in disasters https://www.wiisard.org  U of Cambridge and T  U Mnchen Isabelle  http://isabelle.in.tum.de/index.html  S of Engineering and A S H Uni v ersity  Codeblue Wireless sensor networks for medical care http://www.eecs.harvard.edu  mdw/proj/codeblue  F  Puhlmann and M W esk e Using the  calculus for formalizing workîow patterns In W M P van der Aalst B Benatallah F Casati and F Curbera editors Business Process Management  volume 3649 pages 153 168 2005  A W  Roscoe The Theory and Practice of Concurrency  Prentice-Hall 1997  X Song B Hw ong G Matos A Rudorfer  C  Nelson M Han and A Girenkov Understanding requirements for computer-aided healthcare workîows experiences and challenges In L J Osterweil H D Rombach and M L Soffa editors ICSE  pages 930Ö934 ACM 2006  C Stef ansen Sma wl A small w orkîo w language based on ccs In O Belo J Eder J F e Cunha and O Pastor editors CAiSE Short Paper Proceedings  volume 161 of CEUR Workshop Proceedings  CEUR-WS.org 2005  W  M P  v a n der Aalst V eriìcation of w orkîo w nets In P A z  ema and G Balbo editors ICATPN  volume 1248 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science  pages 407Ö426 Springer 1997  W  M P  v a n der Aalst A H M ter Hofstede B Kiepuszewski and A P Barros Workîow patterns Distributed and Parallel Databases  14\(1 2003  W  M P  v a n der Aalst T  W eijters and L Maruster  Workîow mining Discovering process models from event logs IEEE Trans Knowl Data Eng  16\(9 1142 2004  P  Y  H W ong and J Gibbons A process-algebraic approach to workîow speciìcation and reìnement In M Lumpe and W Vanderperren editors Software Composition  volume 4829 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science  pages 51Ö65 Springer 2007  W  Y u and A Ramani Design and implementation of a personal mobile medical assistant Enterprise networking and Computing in Healthcare Industry 2005 HEALTHCOM 2005 Proceedings of 7th International Workshop on  pages 172Ö178 23-25 June 2005 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


  12 the PL is intended to fulfill, thus many requirements and specifications that would be found in a PL design specification would need to be provided by the specific PL procurement agency. The ORS Phase III standards can be downloaded from http://projects.nrl.navy.mil/busstandards  Communications Interfaces  A key external interface for th e space segment \(bus and PL is RF communications to the ground. This topic investigated standardization for SC command and control \(C&C communications link and the tactical communication link Figure 11 presents a basic high-level view of the RF communications pathways envisioned in the standards Other issues investigated related to both current and future approaches the military is planning for RF communications including, data flow, frequency band definitions modulation techniques, data rates, communication security COMSEC\and basic defi nition of ground interface locations. Given the current maturity of the general military SC C&C network, the presen t SGLS architecture and the expected Unified S-Band \(USB\architecture were established as the standard. Fo r the tactical links, standard UHF was established for LDR application, and the Common Data Link \(CDL\ocol was established as the HDR standard Ground Support Checkout Interface In support of the rapid call-up scenario, standards for interfacing spacecraft bus and the payload, and processing the integrated space vehicle though launch, is one of the unique activities under the IS ET derived ORS system design. The need to develop an approach for this effort in sufficient detail in order to derive requirements that would influence the spacecraft bus design is critical. The approaches developed have design and manufacturing ramification on the bus, such as the ability to install batteries late in the flow, rapid \223built-in-test\224 capabilities periodic checks, and access a nd safety implications Data Interfaces: Bus to Payload and Ground This document defines the data exchange protocols, data transport formats, packet definitions and field definitions for the bus/PL interface. Underlying electrical interface for the bus/PL interface is the HDLC and SpaceWire. The bus/PL interface is defined such that the HDLC interface SpaceWire interface, or both can be used. The bus design will provide support for both interfaces. The PL may choose to implement either one or both. The bus/PL interface is defined to dynamically suppor t either or both interfaces without needing bus reconfiguration \(i.e., FSW changes This document also defines the data exchange protocols data transport and packet template for the space/ground interface. The space to ground interface definition assumes the use of a flight side SGLS transponder integrated with COMSEC slices. The SGLS forward link assumes a flightside Cardholder COMSEC slice. The SGLS return link  Figure 11 Radio Frequency Communications Architecture  


  13 assumes that the SGLS transponder supports both the narrow-band and wide-band inte rfaces. While a return link COMSEC is required, this document assumes that the return link COMSEC does not levy any blocking or packaging constraints for the return link This interface standard was developed as part of the ORS Phase 3 Bus effort. This interface standard was adopted by the ORS Phase 3 Bus and COMMx payload elements. As a result, the TACSAT-4 spacecraft implemented the encl osed interface standards for its bus to payload and space to ground interfaces This document is limited to and currently defines the interfaces between the spacecraf t bus and the payload, and between the spacecraft bus and the ground. Subsequent releases will define the add itional internal interfaces. The depth of detail required for in terface standardization and the need for coverage of additional interfaces is an ongoing assessment effort by ORS s upported standards definition efforts. The intent is to levy interface standards where these standards will lead to efficien t system integration, robust operational capabilities, and improved system flexibility while reducing overall system cost 4  C ONCLUSION  Both the STP-SIV and the ORS ISET efforts have developed standards that provide options for cost-effective capable, flexible spaceflight. Pathfinder SC buses are currently in development for both efforts and will have flight heritage within approximately one year Through the efforts of ISET and the associate prototype teams, the ORS program ha s successfully produced an extensive and well-documented set of ORS bus standards consistent with the ORS concept of operations \(CONOPS and classes of missions. The process used to produce these standards has resulted in technically sound standards which are understood, with buy in from industry. Business factors were also strongly considered to improve the transition of these standards into successful acquisition under a subsequent operational phase While ORS must provide the business foundation, these technical standards are intended to be more broadly useful in order to further volume production, standards acceptance, and the industry business cases. The ORS standards are readily available to Government organizations and payload developers SDTW employs lessons learned from decades of space flight to standardization of STP-SIV design. Flexibility is planned from the beginning and missions are adapted within the range of the SC\222s capability. Development of SC standards requires upfront investment in order to achieve a return on investment once multiple missions have been built and flown. The more PL provi ders who are willing to adopt the STP-SIV interfaces and deve lop experiments applicable to the capabilities of the SC the more successful this program will become R EFERENCES   National Research Council The Role of Small Satellites in NASA and NOAA Earth Observation Programs National Academy Press, Washington D.C., 2000  G F Squibb, \223Meeting the Needs of the Space Technology Industry,\224 ISO Focus, Oct 2005   T. P. Nosek, \223The EOS Aqua A ura Experi ence  Lessons Learned on Design, Integration, and Test of EarthObserving Satellites,\224 AIAA 2004-6060, Space 2004 Conference, Sept. 2004  Mark Barrera, Aerospace Co rp., \223Briefing: Experience from Past Spacecraft Standard ization Efforts,\224 STP-SIV Kickoff Meeting, Ball Aerospace, 27 April 2006 5 D. Bren izer, S. An d r ews, G. Ho g a n   223A Stan d a rd  Satellite Bus for National Security Space Missions,\224 MIT Lincoln Laboratory, March 2005   C Garner, M Hurl ey G. Sandhoo, E. Fi nnegan, P Stadter, B. Kantsiper, \223ORS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS4-2006-3005, AIAA 4 th Responsive Space Conference 2006, Los Ange les, California, April 24-27, 2006   G. Sandhoo, M Johnson, W R a y nor, M  Hurl ey  P Stadter, C. Schein, C. Garner, "ORS/JWS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS5-2007-3002, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007   P St adt e r, G. Sandhoo, M Hurl ey S. Vernon, P Schwartz, B. Williams, "Responsive Spacecraft Bus Implementation for Unique HEO missions Based on Standard Interfaces." AIAA-RS5-2007-4004, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007  Responsiv e Space Mission Requirements and Concept of Operations \(CONOPS\SBS-001 Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-DSB001  Res ponsive Space Launch Vehicle Interface Standards \(LVIS SBS-004, Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB002  Responsiv e Space Payload Developers Guide \(PDG Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB001  Responsiv e Space General Bus Standard GBS\er for Space Technologies Report NCST-S-SB00 


  14 B IOGRAPHY  Capt. Chris Badgett is a System Engineer for the STP-SIV at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. He previously served as developmental engineer at Air Force Research Laboratory Munitions Directorate working on a weapon data link and F-16 small munitions dispenser. He has a B.S.E.E. from University of Tennessee and an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STP-SIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology Mike Hurley is the Spacecraft Development Section Head at NRL in Washington DC. Mr. Hurley has helped shape and implement ORS and TacSat experimentation since 2002. Beginning April 2003, he was Program Manager for the Secretary of Defense\222s \(OSD\ ORS initiative, as well as the Principle Investigator for Office of Naval Research\222s \(ONR\ TacSat Innovative Naval Prototype \(INP program. In 2005 he received the DOD Civilian Meritorious Medal for his work in ORS and TacSat experimentation. He is an engineering graduate of Virginia Tech and holds an M.B.A. from George Mason University  Paul Jaffe is an electrical engineer and the Integration and Testing Section Head at the Naval Center for Space Technology at NRL. He has worked on NASA and DOD space missions, including Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory STEREO\ and TacSat-1. Recently he developed standards and led spacecraft computer hardware development for TacSat-4 as part of the DOD ORS effort He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University Hallie Walden is an Advanced Systems Manager at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. She worked as the STP-SIV Capture Manager and as the Deputy Program Manager from program inception through the Preliminary Design Review. Prior efforts include thermal, fluids, and thermodynamic analyses and design for Ball Aerospace, Lockheed Martin, and AlliedSignal \(now Honeywell\. She holds B.S.M.E and M.S.M.E. degrees from Stanford University  Alan Lopez is currently a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. in Boulder CO since 2005. He received his undergraduate degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois and began working at TRW in Redondo Beach, CA in 1985. After completing his M.S.E.E. degree at the University of Southern California in 1990, he began working at Hughes Space and Communications in El Segundo, CA  Mike Pierce is a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. He is the Chief System Engineer for the STP-SIV program and wrote the STP-SIV PLUG. Prior efforts include system modeling and simulation, mission operations, and mission design working for Spectrum Astro \(now General Dynamics\ and the USAF At Spectrum Astro, he was a key member of Discover II Space Based Infrared System\( SBIRS\ Low and Near Field Infrared Experiment \(NFIRE\ programs. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder  David Kaufmann is Program Manager for STP-SIV at Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp He also served as Program Manager for DARPA Orbital Express NextSat Commodity Spacecraft program. He previously served as a Thermal Engineer at Hughes Space and Communications Co. in El Segundo, CA. He holds a B.S. from Stanford University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in Mechanical Engineering 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


