Enterprise systems and Business Process Agility A Case Study   Dr. Ravi Seethamraju The University of Sydney, Australia r.seethamraju@econ.usyd.edu.au Jaya Seethamraju University of Sydney, Australia j.seethamraju@econ.usyd.edu.au   Abstract Agility has become a key competency today as businesses face uncertain and volatile environment Organizations operating in highly dynamic environments need agile processes. Existing information technology infrastructure and systems including enterprise systems with their ability to 
achieve organizational integration pose a serious challenge to process agility, even though they have made business processes cost efficient. With enterprise systems in most of the large and medium sized enterprises, this paper analyses the impact of enterprise system on business process agility. Using a case study approach, this study observes that the characteristics integration and standardization have a varying influence on the firm s ability to build agility    1. Introduction  Dynamic business environment requires firms to adjust, redesign and adapt their processes swiftly, or 
to be agile Business process agility, a combination of speed and flexibility has increasingly become essential for survival for today s organizations Whether it is for a simple reduction of costs or to attain and/or maintain competitiveness in marketplace, whether it is to overcome the unanticipated changes in the regulatory environment or to increase firm s responsiveness to the external environment, speed and flexibility are critical 
characteristics today s firms aspire to build Information technologies today are considered a significant digital platform and are expected to facilitate agility in their processes and systems This paper reports on a research study that investigates the role of enterprise system \(ES\n building business process agility. It will first review the literature on agility and discusses various characteristics of enterprise systems that are used as a framework in this study. It will then describe the methodology employed in this study and presents the 
findings and conclusions  2. Process agility - concepts  Business processes are central to the way organizations and individuals interact with one anothe d are n o w con s i d ered th e m o s t v a l u able  corpor In orde r to pos ition th e m sel v es  better to respond to market dynamics and changing business conditions, firms must be able to adapt quickly by changing and reconfiguring the necessary business processes nimbly [3, 4   T h e ne e d to improve customer service, to bring new products and 
services rapidly to market, and to reduce cost inefficiencies have been pushing business processes to the top of business organizations priority list [6, 7   Agility is a complex concept and analyzed across economics s an d su ppl y c h ain management [10, 4, 11  st r a t e gi c  ma na ge m e nt  5   and information technology/information systems disciplines [12, 13  T h o ugh d i f f e r e n t fa c e t s o f a g i l i t y  are defined and emphasized throughout the literature operationalization of process agility construct was 
only recently discussed in the literature [13, 14, 15   Built from the literature on flexibility in Economics, the concept of agility was further developed in agile manufacturing and now in strategic management and information systems literature. Flexibility refers to the capability of an organization to move from one task to another and adapt to expected changes [17 d h a s  dimensions such as product mix flexibility, volume flexibility, scheduling flexibility, routing flexibility 
product flexibility, delivery flexibility g ilit y merges the four competitive dimensions cost, quality dependability, and flexibility and moves beyond them with an ability to respond rapidly to any unexpected changes in market and business environmen Though process performance objectives such as cost, quality and dependability are implicit in the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 Crown Copyright 


term agility the two concepts of flexibility and speed are particularly important and inherent to the definition of business process agility. In the past quality, cost efficiency and speeding up the business processes were sufficient to maintain competitive edge. Contrary to traditional view in which performance objectives such as cost, quality dependability, flexibility an d speed were considered at times conflicting, the new concept of agility  inherently postulates the possibility of simultaneously excelling in all the performance objectives with the help of existing and emerging information technologies/systems Some authors considered agility as a broader concept with two dimensions  sense and respond  capability b a m u r thy et al \(2003 i n e d business agility as the capability of firms in managing their internal operations and interactions with their eco-systems and identified three types of agility customer agility, partnership agility and operational agility h ile th e f i rst t w o deal s w i t h  managing relationships with customers and partners operational agility refers to the ability to rapidly redesign existing processes Modifying the definitions by Raschke & David Sambamurthy et al, and Meade et al, business process agility in this study, is defined as the ability to dynamically modify, reconfigure and/or deploy a business process \(and its various components accommodate required and potential needs of the firm [16, 13, 22  The present day requirements of a cost-effective and responsive enterprise make it difficult for enterprises to stick to well-defined static business processes. It may be necessary for a firm to rapidly join or leave an inter-enterprise business process in a dynamic collaborative environment in order to respond to changes in markets, suppliers, customer requirements and different stakeholders  3. Agility and Enterprise Systems  3.1. Role of IT and agility  Information technologies/systems today are considered a significant business platform for building and delivering this critical business need agility 15, 13 W h ile so m e research ers in th e p a st  argued that IT does not ma oth e r res earch ers have stated that it is not a matter of IT itself, but a matter of how IT is managed [24, 25 s poi n t ed by researchers, digitized platforms of business processes and knowledge, such as enterprise resource planning \(ERP\, customer relationship management CRM\, and supply chain management \(SCM\ allow firms to rapidly detect changes, flexibly alter their market strategies and react quickly to customers  changing requirements, and help them form valuechain collaborations with partners for establishing niche markets. Thus, information technologies \(IT help build process agility not only for building new information-based products and services but also by streamlining processes and building interorganisational relationships [27, 28  Several information technology vendors and consultants have now made it their key strategy to help organizations to achieve agility. For example IBM s on-demand vision, HPs adaptive enterprise  strategy, Oracle s on-demand solutions, and SAP s agile enterprise strategy are all focusing on the agility dimension and provide a variety of technical and organizational solutions to achieve a good level of business agility. Information Technologies \(IT such as enterprise system could have an enabling as well as a disabling role in building business process agility   IBM s on-demand vision promises information on demand through a combination of software hardware, services and industry solutions and delivers agility, optimization of operations and customer serv WebSph ere in te g r ation software solutions are promised to deliver the requisite business process agility to business managers and help its business managers to respond to dynamic business conditions M s information on-demand vision offers unified trusted view of information, and enable the organization to leverage the information better. With Service Oriented Architecture \(SOA\ the foundation platform, Cognos and other IBM products will enable its customers to have agility to respond quickly to rapidly changing business needs [30  HP s adaptive enterprise strategy promises to help organizations to successfully position themselves and thrive in an environment of change. It aims to help organizations to move to an ideal state of agility, with the help of its products, services, solutions and technologies such as HP Partitioning Continuum [32  HP 2008\. By helping the organizations to successfully synchronize its business and IT infrastructure, its adaptive enterprise strategy is expected to help companies in achieving IT consolidation, business information optimization adaptive and flexible infrastructure, minimum total cost of ownership and capitalize on change HP  2008 SAP, with its new Enterprise Service Oriented Architecture \(ESOA\ promises to provide the platform for increasing business agility through Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


higher user productivity, greater reliability, reduced total cost of ownership and increased IT responsiveness w e red by SA P N e t w ea v e r  technologies, SAP ERP solutions enable organizations to increase efficiency and growth by extending existing processes across new business boundaries, consolidating business and IT to leverage economics of scale, innovating existing business processes by developing composite applications and delivering flexible and highly productive user interfaces A P s ESOA developed upon open standards for exchanging information with a variety of systems such as ERP, HCM, SRM, CRM and SCM, and with a business process management platform, is expected to help its customers in improving agility  and responsive to change  Information systems and technologies themselves, however, may not be sufficient to achieve agility and non-IT attributes could also play an important rol F i nk a n d Neum a n n pointed out the impact of IT personnel capabilities on IT dependent strategic agility through their effects on IT infrastructure capabilities including enterprise systems n d ers t an ding of t h e role of information technologies and systems \(IT/IS\d the capabilities of both the infrastructure and personnel in building agile business processes is useful in planning and allocating organizational IT resources Recent advances in information technology/systems such as grid computing, web services, service-oriented architecture and business process management tools and solutions are centered on the goal of providing the requisite agility for enterprises [37, 38 d are e x pected to com p le m e n t  each other in making the processes more agile  3.2. Enterprise systems context  Several IT-enabled innovations in general, and enterprise systems in particular have contributed to the cost efficiencies through standardization simplification, integration, and automation of business processes and their consistent execution  en th o u gh proces s re en g i n eeri n g at t h e ti m e  of implementing enterprise systems was advocated by software vendors, consultants, researchers and practitioners, many business organizations could not carry out improvements for several organizational cultural and technology related reasons  Continued usage of legacy systems, reluctance to change the configuration after embedding the system 41  t h e i n he r e nt  na t u r e o f E S i nfr a s t r uc t u r e t h a t  result in tight-coupling of structures, processes business rules and roles and the associated interdependencies [42 an d  co m p le x  n e st s o f li n k s  between various applications supported by a silo s of technology from different vendors [1 a v e all been  posing further challenges for firms in building agility  Even though implementation of enterprise systems have made business processes cost efficient they do not seem to have the ability to enable rapid changes to the business processes in response to changing business models and conditions [39, 12, 42  L i k e  m a ny IT in n o v a tions in th e pas t en terpris e  systems focused on increasing control and efficiency Though the original vision of enterprise systems was to create an environment of seamlessly integrated data, processes, technology and people, the reality is different. Many organizations still leave some legacy systems for a company specific application that needs integration with their enterprise system, choose a best of breed approach in the selection and implementation of various application modules, use data warehousing technology to complement enterprise system s in decision support capability, and need to integrate their enterprise systems with external processes and data [43 More ov er, im ple m enting t h e en terprise  systems in phases \(one module after another upgrading them and then integrating with the changing hardware, networks and database software is a continuous process and thus may not help realize a truly seamless and integrated environment Enterprise system is a generic term, and its capability, scope, scale, technology orientation functionality and architecture are continuously changing. In order to understand the impact of enterprise systems implementation on process agility it is necessary to understand key characteristics embedded in an enterprise system. Based on literature review, several propositions with reference to each of the key characteristic are discussed below  3.3. Integration  Integration is by far the most important characteristic of enterprise system discussed in the literatur terprise s y st e m s are on e of th e k e y tools implemented by organizations to achieve integration across the organization T h ou gh it  is conceptualized differently by different disciplines depending upon their focus, organizational integration in business information systems literature is generally defined as the coordination of various activities and processes carried out by different individuals, work groups, departments, business units across various functions, across various business entities, across different hierarchical levels and strategy and cultu  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


In information systems field, a technical perspective of integration represents the extent to which different systems are interconnected and can communicate with each othe h ile in operations and supply chain management the concept of integration incorporates the coordinated management of information, material flows processes through a common set of principles strategies and performance strateg ic  management literature integration is defined as the process of achieving unity of effort among various organizational subsystems for accomplishing common organizational goal d coor di n a t i on of activities and the management of dependencies between them teg rati on in t h is st u d y i s thus defined as coordination of activities, processes and information across units and functions Integration in an organizational context can be viewed from three perspectives vertical integration horizontal integration and technical integration Horizontal integration refers to interconnection between various departments or functions within an organization [49  T h i s c r o s sf unc t i o n a l i n t e gr a t i o n represents the extent to which different functions and business processes are interconnected and tightly coup it is bet w ee n di f f e re n t  h i erarch ica l levels, it is termed as vertical integration While the horizontal integration is a critical determinant for facilitating cooperation and managing interdependencies across business functions [51 v e rtical in te g r atio n  f acilitate s  enhanced visibility, accessibility, control and decision support capability e k e y ben e f i t s of enterprise systems implementation. Horizontal integration achieved across the enterprise after the configurations and settings fully embedded, may discourage the firm from changing the processes because of the costly change management efforts and reluctance to disturb the well-set system Vertical integration, however, may facilitate better understanding of the processes, information and decision making because of its ability to facilitate increased visibility and centralization of control. This may help top management to comprehend the critical need for process changes better and therefore position them well to build agility into processes. Many organizations may prefer to make further process changes during upgrades and thereby make their processes agile. Because of the demands they make on organizations during adoption and implementation, enterprise systems at best will provide a rigid platform for efficient management of information in the firm The technical integration facilitated by enterprise systems may result in tighter coupling with other practices and structures in the enterprise, and may create interdependencies. This may make it very difficult and costly for any organization to make any process change [42, 52 T h e m o re a n org an iza tion i s  integrated adopting integrated technologies embedded in the enterprise system software, the less flexible and more difficult to disconnect   counterbalancing technologies such as middleware point-to-point interfaces are not introduced enterprise systems may actually reduce the agility   By mapping the organizational structure and other elements into the system by way of configuration, the system is fit to the organizational needs. Once this configuration is completed, the system is tightly linked with organizational structures, processes technology and people [51 an d ch a n g i ng th e m i s  considered difficult and uneconomical This together with the insufficient levels of standardization and integration achieved because of the continuing usage of legacy systems, phased implementation of various application modules in an enterprise system and inadequate decision support capability of the system makes it harder to derive other benefits of integration. The benefits of integration thus are likely vary depending upon the nature and the extent of integration achieved [70, 53  Therefore, technical integration and the resulting tight coupling of systems, structures and processes may restrict a firm s ability to change and reconfigure business processes. Thus, while the level of horizontal integration achieved may have a negative influence on organizational ability to build agile processes, vertical integration may positively contribute to business process agility It is, however, important to note that it may not be necessary for some of the major standard processes supported by enterprise systems to be agile. For example, processes such as procure to pay  order to cash  hire to retire etc. are not likely to change for some time and building agility into those standard processes may not be necessary. The integrated nature, higher visibility of information enabled by the enterprise system and the dependence on the internal tangible sources of information \(ignoring the managerial judgment and external sources of information\, however, could reduce the richness of information available to managerial decision making restricting the organization s ability to respond with agility  3.4. Standardization  Standardization is an agreed way of doing things In the context of enterprise systems, standardization Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


is the process of producing an agreement on technical and business specifications to be used consistently across the enterprise to ensure that processes information, format and systems are interconnected and interoperable [44 Th e v e r y p u rpos e of standardization of business processes is to rein-in the variability and variety of processes, terminology and definitions, information/data formats, and technology platforms/systems, spread across the organizational business units and achieve the efficiencies and consistency in execution Standardization of processes can facilitate efficient handoffs across process boundaries, better communications about how business operates and performance benchmarking e lopm e n t of Supply Chain Operations Reference \(SCOR\, Design Chain Operations Reference \(DCOR\ models by the Supply Chain Council for high level processes in the supply chain and design chains; Capability Maturity Model by the Carnegie Mellon s software Engineering Institute for software development processes; ISO 20000 for IT services Management standards, industry specific process standard models such as eTOM \(telecommunication industry\nd ISO 9000 quality management standards, or the higher-level industry neutral process classification framework developed by the American Productivity Quality Council \(APQC\are some of the global attempts at standardization of processes Recognizing the strengths and weaknesses in these different approaches and models, there are concerted moves to develop synergies from these process standardization methodologies and models in different industry sectors. For example, in supply chain context, it is believed that the complementary strengths and synergies developed by implementing TQM, Lean and Six Sigma along with SCOR models will lead to a holistic process improvement approach that is customer focused, results oriented and contributes to effective execution of business strategy  i m i l a rl y  i t i s pos si bl e t o deri v e sy n e r g i e s a n d deliver consistent process improvements by applying TQM, CMM and ISO 9001 standards to the software development process Th us s t a n dardization of processes and not just the CMMs or ISO20000 standards, will change how information systems are designed, bought and implemented [53    By actively participating in these widespread initiatives to standardize processes within and across the enterprise and industry, ERP software vendors play an important role and make the process designs and improvements far more valuable Standardization of processes, information technology platforms are typically carried out before implementing enterprise systems software Inadequate levels of standardization may limit firm s ability to access information and use if for decision making even if data is available somewhere in the system. In the absence of right and timely information, organizations may not be able to identify the appropriate process components and reconfigure the processes to deal with dynamic changes Therefore, higher the level of standardization achieved, higher the ability of the firm to build agility in their processes. The full benefits of standardization will, however be felt more if the organization is global and if the processes are repetitive and transaction-based processes such as procure-to-pay  and order-to-cash If the processes are unique and specific to a particular location and are offering a competitive advantage, then enforcing an enterprise level standardised process, may actually limit the firm s process agility. Of course, this may be challenging if the firm is trying to reconfigure interenterprise processes in a supply chain context On technology side also standardization is a feature  If the organization is a large global organization, consolidating the technology platforms such as databases, networks, interfaces etc.\nto standardised form, may allow easier integration among various process components, reduce maintenance costs, and allow the firm s processes to be flexible. As it will reduce the need to develop interfaces between different applications and systems, a standardised technology platform may actually improve the potential process agility in a limited way On the other hand, technology may also restrict business process agility, as it can create tightcoupling of the infrastructure with processes information systems, structures, work roles/people and technology becoming interdependent and tightly integrated with each other. Tight-coupling enabled by ES may make it difficult and/or prohibitively costly to change the processes quickly. Therefore, higher the standardization of the technology platforms lower the potential for process agility  3.5. Best practices  Best practice processes can be defined as the most efficient and effective way of accomplishing a process goal. These are methods and procedures proven over time for a large number of organizations It is defined as a process of developing and following a standard way of doing things several organizations can use. If an ERP system has to generate desired benefits, business processes must be aligned with the business practices implicit in the ERP softwa Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Leading ERP software vendors such as SAP and Oracle routinely claim that the processes that are embedded in the software are typically of best practice. The software vendors also claim that the continuous updates of the software released as versions incorporate improvements in the processes technology and other management issues. These large ERP software vendors reportedly investigated business processes across a wide variety of organizations and industries and then modeled the best of them into their software solutions [57, 58, 59  In fact, the term best practices is used as a marketing term and incorporated into various ERP products by large software vendors For example, SAP best practices ERP is a product trade mark and Oracle claims that the best practice processes are part of Oracle s application integration architecture and their software solutions. This view is questioned by the recent research which argues that the organizational politics and other factors influence the creation of best practice software and the practices embedded in the software are in fact compromises rather than best practices any  case, software vendors best practices mostly relate to standard processes such as procure to pay  order to cash and hire to retire and do not cater to some non-standard and unique processes such as product development which are now considered vital for gaining competitive edge The software vendors argue that the ERP software can be pre-configured to deal with a pre-determined flexible process and transactional options through the use of complex tables, parameters and switches. Once these options are decided by the company using the solution manager or some other tool provided by the software vendor, it is extremely difficult and expensive to change these options in future. While tools such as solution managers may help in reducing the long implementation times and training costs, and thereby the total cost of ownership, the system remains inflexible after implementation Changing the processes after the implementation is beyond the scope of many enterprises, while the current environment requires their processes to be dynamic and change continually in response to those needs. Thus, there is an inherent conflict between the flexibility of the business operations and the rigidity imposed by the ERP system Even though some of the latest developments such as web services and service oriented architecture are expected to offer process components/building blocks and allow easy and flexible configuration, it is still in nascent stage of implementation Implementing these best practice processes and discarding the existing processes is expected to contribute to improved performan th es e  best practice processes embedded in the software any variability in the process that is required for business reasons, may have to be handled as an exception expending considerable resources. Thus while best practices offer some benefits in terms of efficiencies, they may not really contribute to agility While periodic software upgrades may ensure continuous improvement of processes, the embedded best practices may have no influence on the ability of the firm to build agile processes Embracing the best practice view advocated by the ERP vendors, may reduce the autonomy eliminate competitive local practices and mandate higher order decisions. This may actually stifle creativity and process innovation and may limit the potential of organizational business processes to be agile and dynamic  3.6. Process orientation  Central to the notion of process, the term process orientation or transversality is defined as a set of activities that transform inputs into outputs for customers d re f e rs t o th e proces sorien ted  view of an ERP system. This definition emphasizes value adding activities, customer orientation and repetitiveness. Understanding their activities from a horizontal perspective would allow firms to get closer to their customers while simultaneously increasing the quality of their organization and their competitiveness  Use of common language, customer focus cooperation, holistic or big picture view, reduction of costs and delays, increasing learning, standardization and coordination are some of the manifestations of process-orientation a n E R P env i ronm ent  i t  becomes necessary for everyone in the organization to understand not only the process in which they work, but also their own specific task, along with the impact their work have on other aspects of business Implementation of enterprise systems do not guarantee the cross functionality of the organization It has to be built throughout the project s life cycle  T h e ex te n t o f t h e proces sorien tat i on accomplished may be restricted and dependent upon the implementation strategies d th e e x te n t o f  organizational integration and standardization achieved through ES implementation. This process orientation facilitated by enterprise systems may help employees adopting an increasingly broader enterprise perspective than a departmental on  and facilitate the reduction of cross-functional conflicts [65, 66  T h o ugh p r o c e ss o r i e nt a t i o n c o ul d  be facilitated by the enterprise system, its ability to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


contribute to a firm s ability to build agile processes is uncertain  4. Research Methodology  4.1. Research objectives & methods  The objective of this research study is to analyse the influence of enterprise systems implementation on business process agility in an organizational context. Studying enterprise system as a system of processes may potentially reveal unanticipated synergies that can be created by exploiting interrelationships among its elements that exist in the new system, but did not exist in the old Characteristics of enterprise systems that include integration, standardization, best practices and process orientation are used as a framework in this study Using these characteristics as framework, this exploratory study focuses on the influence of each of the key characteristics on the ability of the firm to build agility in their processes. With this in mind, the research was undertaken in order to develop understandings of the impact by a case study method As Gummesson points out, the aim of case studies is not to establish a superficial cause-effect relationships and/or correlations, but to reach a fundamental understanding of structure and process  a s e s t u d y  m e th odol ogy ca n  f acilita te t h e development of understandings of the multiple interpretations of organisational life and can capture contextual richness and complexity Case study research thus offers deep insight into the impact of information systems on various organizational dimensions and attempts to understand the phenomena. Using semi-structured in-depth interviews of the key respondents that are actively involved in the adoption, implementation of the enterprise systems and post-implementation management of the company operations, primary data is collected. Given the nature of questions, in-depth interviews based on the perceptions, views and experience of the key individuals in the organization are considered more insightful. These interviews are recorded with prior permission and transcribed for further analysis. The data thus collected is coded and analyzed with reference to the characteristics discussed earlier Typical to case study research, this study had limitations including the lack of generalisability and subjective bias j ected by t h e res earch er a s  w e ll  as respondents. The extent of cooperation from different respondents in the organization was not uniform and the respondents may have either overrated or underrated the issues. These limitations however, are unlikely to have affected the validity and reliability of the outcomes significantly because the objective of the study was not to generalize, but to provide anecdotal evidence. The following section gives a brief background to the case study organization studied  4.2 Case study organization  The case study organization is a continuous process manufacturing company that makes chemical products. This is a typical make to stock company that also fulfils some specific orders of major customers. Started about a decade ago, it currently employs about 400 persons. This organisation has SAP for the past ten years starting from the earlier versions and is now running on ECC 5.0. It has Sales and distribution \(SD\, materials management \(MM Financials \(FI/CO\lant Maintenance \(PM\sset management \(AM\ and Production planning \(PP modules. The company had carried about 20 modifications \(customisation\ to the software at the time of initial implementation in 1997. With every new upgrade in the past ten years, however, the company was able to do away with those software customizations gradually and now is close to a vanilla implementation In addition to SAP, Lotus Notes, Novel networks systems, in business environment; it has a specialised manufacturing process control system and a laboratory information system. Interfaces with SAP were built for these applications. As mentioned in the literature review section, the scope of implementation would influence the effect of several ES characteristic such as integration and standardization and therefore their influence on the process agility By implementing most of the application modules the system is qualified as a good candidate for this investigation and therefore is selected for this study This company therefore has the potential to offer a rich organizational context for this research. The following section describes the research framework and presents analysis and findings  5. Analysis & Findings   Integration, standardization, best practices and process orientation are the four key characteristics of enterprise system s enabled environment. The following section evaluates their potential influence on agility and reports on the findings derived from the analysis  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


5.1. Standardization & agility  Standardization and integration of the processes information, business rules and technology platforms across the enterprise is expected to result in consistent execution of the processes and improved efficiencies. The benefits of such standardization and integration, however, depend on the scope and depth achieved in a typical enterprise system implementation. By implementing almost all the application modules that too with least amount of customization, this organization has standardized and integrated all the major processes and information across the major enterprise functions. As suggested by one respondent, simplification and standardization of repetitive processes such as procurement have helped this case study organization better and agility is not an issue there. In fact, as pointed out by another respondent, there is no need for these standard repetitive processes to be agile at all as they are not expected to change significantly In case of other non-standard processes, however the firm has implemented its old processes that have grown out of the organization that does not exist now. In certain accounting processes and information, the organization has simply converted their old paper-based \(inefficient\ses into an electronic system in ES environment. Assuming those old processes as standard has placed the organization into a tight corner with no discernable performance gains. This together with the organisational culture that has overemphasised on control in the past had made the processes so complex that it is too hard to contemplate any changes Therefore, standardization of repetitive processes that were efficient before ES implementation may have contributed to agility, but for other processes standardising them and linking with technology in ES environment made those processes very rigid and inflexible. The company therefore, is now hoping to slowly change their processes by adopting the processes embedded in the ES version in every upgrade and thereby achieve efficiencies and agility As pointed out by one respondent, standardization is good and leads to simplified processes. But, where ES is implemented without improving the process first, it has simply locked the inefficient business processes and restricted their agility  5.2. Integration & agility  Given the size of the investment and its commercial off-the shelf nature, it is necessary for an enterprise system to be adaptable to organizational conditions and structures. Once the system is configured and embedded integrating the information and processes across the enterprise horizontally, the flexibility it offers may be limited and may depend upon the scope of ES implementation. With the implementation of most of the application modules this organization has achieved full integration of its processes and information both horizontally and vertically As pointed out by one respondent, integration has enhanced their speed of execution and consistency of execution. In fact, the company s slowest processes are the ones that don t use integration of features of the enterprise system. From flexibility point of view however, integration of processes has made them less flexible. Thus, while the speed has improved, the flexibility is compromised as a result of horizontal integration of processes in this firm Integration of information and processes vertically, however, has contributed to improved decision making in this firm. Improved managerial decision making, facilitated by the standardization and integration of the information as well as processes, have contributed to agility in this organization. As noted by one respondent, if all the processes and all of the data definitions are different it is very difficult to make sense out of the reports produced by the system. In areas such as plant maintenance where there are lot of manual nonstandardized processes and data, there is no potential for agility On the other hand, in procurement process where the information and processes are fully standardized and integrated, the process is very agile, especially because of the enhanced understanding and visibility of information and process both horizontally and vertically. The richness of the information that is available and accessible has not been affected and is not considered to be a limiting factor to agility.  This study suggests that the benefits of integration are likely to vary depending upon the type and nature of integration and thus confirms the previous research 70, 51, 14  W h i l e ho r i z o nt a l i n t e gr a t i o n ha s a  m i xe d  influence on the agility, vertical integration appears to have contributed to agility in this case study While increasing the speed of process, the full horizontal integration facilitated by the enterprise systems has actually reduced the process flexibility The technical integration in this organization is not complete, with a few legacy systems still supporting certain specific applications such as laboratory information system and plant maintenance operations. The organisation is planning implementation of SAP quality management module in future. Thus, the limited technical integration Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


achieved by the enterprise system, though not restricting the agility, at present appear to have no effect on the firm s ability to build agility in their processes  5.3. Best practice processes & agility  Enterprise systems offer best practice processes It is believed that the processes embedded in the software and implemented in this organization are truly the best practices. As pointed out by one respondent, it is safe to simply adopt what enterprise system software suggests rather than changing/customizing its processes by changing the code. With continuous upgrades, these best practices are continuously improved and made available to the case study organization On an economic front also, this firm views this as a cost effective and efficient option. In any case, as observed by another senior manager, the core of the main business processes such as procure-to-pay or order-to-cash don t often change in any enterprise system software. It is expected the software vendors will take into consideration the changes in technologies, education and skill levels of typical workforce as users learn about the software, and contribute to the evolving nature of business processes. Therefore, in this organization, there is a strong belief that the best practices are truly best practices and there is no need for them to be changed regularly Any improvement in the processes consequent to the evolution of technologies, skills and practices are generally incorporated in the upgrades and newer versions. In any case, taking the business processes outside the enterprise system s environment, and changing them to deal with external demand is a very rarity in this organization, especially in case of standard transaction based processes supported by enterprise systems. Changing the business processes involves significant changes to the information technology systems, their interfaces, and organizational structures, and is generally discouraged in this organization because of the significant costs, change management efforts and particularly because it may encourage proliferation of non-standard processes, practices, technologies and systems in the enterprise. Thus, the best practices embedded in the enterprise systems do not have any specific influence on the firm s ability to build agility in their business processes. It is expected that the best practices themselves will incorporate periodic changes necessary in the processes to deal with the dynamic business requirements \(both internal and external  5.4. Process orientation and agility  Imparting process orientation is not just the work of enterprise system. Even though, implementing an enterprise system has facilitated using a common language and cooperation among all users across the organization, there is no discernable improvement in customer focus and/or holistic view. As pointed out by one manager, process view is like a motherhood statement and everybody is happy to talk about it But when it comes to do something or change their ways, or demonstrating it in practice and action, it is always challenging. While there is an evidence of some process-oriented way in the organization especially at the higher management levels, it is very much influenced by the organizational culture and management policies and practices and individual capabilities and attitude Even though achieving process orientation is an ongoing process, its influence on process agility however, is not significant. While there is some reduction of turf wars or conflicts between various functional managers, and a better appreciation of the inter-dependencies by managers across the enterprise the impact of these developments on the ability of the firm to build agility into their processes is not clear. It is, however, believed that a better understanding of the processes by the senior management have made it relatively easy to change the process components and reconfigure them to deal with the external demands if necessary  6. Conclusions  Agility of business processes is now considered important. It is expected to improve a company s ability to exploit opportunities for innovation and competitive action. While enterprise systems in the past have contributed to simplification standardization, integration and automation, their influence on the firm s ability to build agility is ambiguous and varies. In this organization, horizontal integration of processes and information has contributed to the improvement in process speed while compromising the flexibility. Vertical integration, however, has resulted in improved visibility, centralization and improved decision making, which indirectly contributes to process agility Standardization of repetitive processes that were efficient before ES implementation may have is contributed to agility in this organization. But in case Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


of other processes, standardizing them and linking with technology in an ES-enabled environment made those processes very rigid and inflexible. The best practice processes embedded in the software are considered truly best practices in this organization With regular updates ensuring the incorporation of latest developments in practices and technologies, it is generally believed that the requisite agility is also part of the best practices. This study results suggest the influence of integration and standardization characteristics on the firm s ability to build agility in their processes. The effects, however, vary depending upon the type of integration and the extent of that integration achieved by the organization after the implementation of enterprise system. While the technical tight-coupling of the enterprise system infrastructure may limit the firm s ability to build agile processes, both vertical and horizontal integration, and standardization of the processes and information appears to be contributing positively While demanding their IT infrastructures to be tightly integrated for control and visibility purposes with the help of enterprise systems, firms are seeking to deliver agility with loosely coupled systems and technologies simultaneously. Though it is considered difficult to achieve both agility and control simultaneously in the past, today introduction of web services and service oriented architecture are expected to deliver both. Recognizing the weaknesses of enterprise systems, ES software vendors and business organizations are expending a significant proportion of their IT investment in Web services and business process management technologies The leading enterprise systems software vendors such as SAP and Oracle are now incorporating Web services standards into their next generation software solutions. For example, SAP has so far delivered 1000 Web service components and recently released the first Web services enabled ES suite. These emergent technologies are centered on the goal of providing the requisite process agility to enterprises by offering a competent business process platform from which to dynamically compose processes [70 37  B u ild in g ag i lit y  in to b u si n e s s p r o cesses a n d  implementing them is not easy and is dependent not just on the IT infrastructure including enterprise systems, but also on other factors such as business process management maturity levels and process characteristics specific to a particular organization Further research on building and implementing agile processes in dynamic business environments is necessary   7. References  1 Ma lone T  W Crow s t on, K  H e r m a n G  Eds  Organizing Business Knowledge: The MIT Process Handbook, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003 2 G a rtne r Re se a r c h  Achieving agility: BPM delivers business agility through new management practices  Gartner Research Note, ID: G00137553, downloaded on 1 Feb 2007 from http://www.gartner.com 2006 3 C. M e y e r The Second Generation of Speed  Harvard Business Review 79\(4\ 2001, pp. 24-26 4 N  Sla c k S. C h a m be rs a nd R  J ohns to n, O p e r a t i ons  Management, 4 th edition, Prentice Hall, Essex, 2004 5 G  Ra y  J.B. Ba rne y a nd W  A  Muha nna  C a p a b ilitie s  Business Processes, and Competitive Advantage: Choosing the Dependent Variable in Empirical Tests of the ResourceBased View Strategic Management Journal 25\(1\004 pp. 23-37 6 G a rtne r R e se a r c h  Gartner position on Business Process Management Gartner Research Note, ID G00136533, downloaded on 1 Feb 2007 from http://www.gartner.com 2006  F o rrest er Research   Market Overview of ERP Applications The Technology And Industry Battle Heats Up downloaded on 25 June 2006 from http://www.foresterresearch.com 2005 8 T  H  D a ve npor t Process view of Management  Process Days Conference 20-22 September, Downloaded from http://www.leonardoconsulting.com/processdays05 on 4 October 2005 2005 9 D  M. U p to n T he Ma na gem e nt of Ma nuf a c t uring  Flexibility California Management Review 36\(2\1994 pp. 72-89 10 Y  Y  Y u s u f  M. Sa r h a d i a n d A  G una s e k a r a n Agile manufacturing: The drivers, concepts and attributes  International Journal of Production Economics 62\(2 1999, pp. 33-43 1 C  Cand ra an d S  K u m a r  Enterprise Architectural Framework for Supply Chain Integration Industrial Management Data Systems, 101\(6\2001, pp.290-303 12 R.D. G a llie rs Strategizing for Agility: Confronting Information Systems Inflexibility in Dynamic Environents In Desouza, K.C. \(ed Agile Information Systems: Conceptualization, Construction and Management Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann, 2007, pp.115 13  V. Sa m b am ur thy   A  B h a r a d w a j a nd V. G r ov e r   Shaping Agility through digital options Reconceptualizing the Role of Information Technology in Contemporary Firms  MIS Quarterly 27\(2\2003, pp 237-263 1 R  S eeth a m r aju   Influence of Enterprise Systems on Business Process Agility  International Conference on Electronic Business ICEB +eBRF 2006 Tampere, Finland 28 Nov to 2 D ecember 2006 15 M  Va n O o s t e r ho ut E  W a a r ts a nd J  v a n  Hillegersberg Change factors requiring agility and implications for IT  European Journal of Information Systems 15\(2\2006, pp.132-145 16 R  Ra sc hk e a nd J S. Da v i d  Business process agility  Proceedings of the 11th Americas Conference on Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Information Systems Omaha, NE, USA, 11-14 August 355-360, 2005 1 R  J  V o ku r k a an d J F l i e dn er  J  The Journey toward Agility  Industrial Management & Data Systems 98\(4 1998, pp. 165-171 18 F. Be c k e r  Organizational agility and the knowledge infrastructure Journal of Corporate Real Estate, 3\(1 2001, 29-37 19 R  E. G r a c h e tti, L  D. Ma rti n e z  O.A  Sa e n z  a nd C S  Chen Analysis of the structural measures of flexibility and agility using measurement theoretical framework  International Journal of Production Economics, 86\(1 2003, pp.47-62 2 S  M a t h i y akal an  N  A s h r a f i  W  Z h an g an d F  W aage  Defining Business Agility:An Exploratory Study  Proceedings of the 16 th Information Resources Management Conference, 2005 21 K  C o n boy a nd B  Fitz g e ra ld Toward a Conceptual Framework of Agile Methods: A Study of Agility in Different Disciplines  The Nineteenth International Forum on COCOMO and Software Cost Modeling Los Angeles CA, 2004 2 L  M  M ead e an d K J Ro gers  A n a l y zi n g  organizational project alternatives for agile manufacturing processes: an analytical network approach." International Journal of Production Economics 37\(2\1999, pp241-261 23 N  Ca rr, N D o e s IT Ma tte r Inf o r m a tion T e c hnolog y  and the  Corrosion of competitive Advantage  Boston Harvard Business School Press, 2004 24 A S  Bh arad waj   A Resource-Based P e rsp ectiv e o n  Information Technology Capability and Firm Performance An Empirical Investigation MIS Quarterly 24:1\, 2000 pp. 169-196 2 S  Devraj an d R Koh l i   Performance Impacts of Information Technology: Is Actual Usage the Missing Link Management Science, 49\(3\2003, pp.273-289 26 J.W  Ross, a nd M.R V ita le  The ERP revolution Surviving vs. thriving Information Systems Frontiers, 2 2000, pp. 233-241 27 R. A g a r w a l, R  V  Sa m b a m urthy  V  P ri nc iple s  and Models for Organizing the IT Function," MIS Quarterly Executive, 1\(1\01, pp. 1-16 28 B a r u a  A  a nd T  M u k h o p a d hy ay  200 0  I nf or m a tion Technology and Business Performance: Past, Present, and Future," in Framing the Domains of IT Management Projecting the Future through the Past  Zmud, R.W. \(Ed Pinnaflex Educational Resources, Cincinnati, Ohio, 2000 pp. 65-84 29  P  W e il, M. Subra m a n i a nd M. Broa dbe nt  Building IT infrastructure for strategic agility  Sloan Management Review 44 \(1\, 2002, pp. 57-65 30 IBM 2 0 0 8   Information on Demand downloaded on 24 August 2008 from http://www01.ibm.com software/data information-on-demand/faq.html, 2008 31 P e isl   Delivering on demand business agility with business process management Hampshire: IBM Corporation, 2003 32 H P  Adaptive Enterprise downloaded on 24 August 2008 from http://www.hp.com/enterprise/483408-0-0-0121.html, 2008 33  SA P   Delivering Operational Excellence with Innovation: ESOA for ERP White paper, SAP AG downloaded on 25 August 2008 from http://viewer.bitpipe.com/viewer/print/document.do?access id=8041050&pages 2006 34 SA P   SAUG User group Summit: Opening presentation by Allan Fairhurst, General Manager, SAP Australia New Zealand, downloaded from http://www.saug.com/documents on 25 August 2008 2007 35 L  Fi nk a nd S  Ne um a nn Gaining Agility through IT Personnel Capabilities: The Mediating Role of IT Infrastructure Capabilities  Journal of the Association of Inform ation Systems  8\(2\, 2007, pp.440-462 36 A  E. Mondra g o n A  C   Ly ons a nd D  F. K e hoe  Assessing the value of information systems in supporting agility in high-tech manufacturing enterprises International Journal of Operations & Production Management 24\(11/12\, 2004, pp. 243-252 37 S P a dm a n a bhu ni, G   G a ne s h  D  Moitra   Web Services, Grid Computing, and Business Process Management: Exploiting Complementarities for Business Agility, Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS'04\004 3 N Bi eb erst ei n  S  Bo se  L   W a l k er an d  A   L y n c h  Impact of service-oriented architecture on enterprise systems, organizational structures, and individuals IBM Systems Journal, 44\(4\, 2005, pp. 691-708 39 T  H  D a ve nport, J  G  H a rris a nd S. Ca ntre ll Enterprise systems and ongoing process change  Business Process Management Journal 10\(1\, 2004, pp. 16-26 40 S  K  Sia   M. T a ng C  S oh, a nd W  B o h, 2 0 0 2   Enterprise Resource Planning \(ERP\ Systems as a Technology of Power: Empowerment or Panoptic Control  The Database for Advances in Information Systems 33\(1\002, pp. 23-37 41 Som m e r  Business process flexibility: a driver for outsourcing  Industrial Management & Data Systems  103\(3\, 2003, pp.177-183 4 S New e l l  E  L  Wa gn er  an d G  Davi d   Clumsy Information Systems: A Critical Review of Enterprise System In Desouza, K.C. \(ed Agile Information Systems Conceptualization, Construction and Management Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann, 2007, pp.163-177 43 L  Ma rk us 20 01 Reflections on the System Integration Enterprise  Business Process Management Journal 7\(3\01, pp.1-9 44 L  Ma rk us, S. A z line  D P e trie a nd C   Tanis Learning from Adopters Experiences with ERP Successes and Problems  Journal of Information Technology 15\(4\2000, pp.245-265 45 T  W  Ma lo ne K  Crow s t on L  L e e  B P e ntla n d  C  Dellacoras, G. Wyner, J. Quimby, C.S. Osborn, A Bernstein, G. Herman, M. Klein and E. O Donnell Tools for Inventing Organizations: Toward a Handbook of Organizational Processes  Management Science 45\(3 1999, pp.425-433 46 R  H  C h ia ng E. L i m a nd V.C  Store y  A Framework for Acquiring Domain Semantics and Knowledge for Database Integration Data Base  31\(2\, 2000, pp.46-64 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


4  P  R L a w r en c e an d J W  L o rsch   Organization and Environment: Management Differentiation and Integration  Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1986  48 S  G l oube rm a n S. a n d H  Mintz b e r g  2 00 1  Managing the Care of Health and the Cure of Disease  Part II Integration  Health Care Management Review  26\(1\001, pp.70-84  49 S  U w iz ey em ung u a nd L  R a y m ond Integration flexibility and transversality: essential characteristics of ERP systems International Conference ofn Enterprise Information Systems \(ICEIS\04, pp.70-77  5 J D Ort o n and D E  W e i c k  Loosely Coupled Systems: A Reconceptualization Academy of Management Review, 15\(2\1990, 203-223  51 D a v e nport, T  H Mis s i o n Critic a l: Re a liz ing the  Promise of Enterprise Systems, Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 2000  52 A  We nsle y  a nd E.V  St ijn  Enterprise Information Systems and the Preservation of Agility In Desouza, K.C ed Agile Information Systems: Conceptualization Construction and Management Oxford: ButterworthHeinemann, 2007, pp.178-187  53 D a v e nport, T   The Coming Commoditization of Processes Harvard Business Review, June, 2005, pp.101108  5 D Ken t and H A t t r i  2 006  SCOR, Lean and Six Sigma Supply Chain Synergy downloaded on 12 July 2007 from http://www.supply-chain.org/whitepapers, 2006  5  L ee M  and T  C h an g 2 00 6 Applying TQM CMM and ISO9001 in Knowledge Management for software development process improvement International Journal of Services and Standards, 2\(1\2006, pp.101-115  56 L  Ra y m ond S. Riv a rd a n d D  J u tra s  Small enterprises predisposition to adopt an ERP  Sixth International Conference on Enterprise Information Systems \(ICEIS Portugal, 10-14 April, 2004, pp.614-618  5  P  B i n g i   M  K S h arm a  an d  J K G o d l a J K   Critical issues affecting ERP Implementation Information Systems Management, 16\(3\1999, pp. 7-14  58 S. Ko nic k i Nike just didn t do it right, says i2 Technologies  Information Week downloaded on 5 March2006 from http://www.informationweek.com/827 nike.htm 2001  59 A  W  Sc he e r a n d F  H a be r m a nn Enterprise resource planning: making ERP a success  Communications of the ACM 43\(4\2000, 57-61  60 E.L  W a g n e r S.V  Sc ott a nd R.D. G a llie rs The creation of best practice software: Myth, reality and ethics  Information and Organization 16\(3\, 2006, pp. 251-275  61 T  Fors be rg L  N ils s o n a nd M A n toni  Process orientation : The Swedish experience  Total Quality Management, 10 4&5\:, 1999, pp. 540-547  62  P  Be s s o n, a nd F.Row e 20 01 ERP Project Dynamics and Enacted Dialogue: Perceived Understanding Perceived Leeway, and the Nature of Task-related Conflicts Database for Adavances in Information Systems, 32\(4\2001, pp. 47-66  63 R. E l Am ran i F. Ro w e  M. Bid a n  B. G e ff ro y Maronnat, and R. Marciniak, \(2003 ERP Implementation and Change: Towards a Cross-Functional View  Proceedings of the 11th European Conference on Information Systems Naples, Italy, June 16-21, 2003  64 J  D   Mc K e e n a nd H  A  S m ith Making it happen Critical issues in IT management Wile, Chichester, UK 2003  65 J.C  Hua n g  a n d S. Ne w e ll Knowledge Integration Process and Dynamics Within the Context of CrossFunctional Projects  International Journal of Project Management 21, 2003, 167-176  6  M  Hut t  B W a l k er an d G  F r an kw i c k  Hurdle the Cross-Functional Barriers to Strategic Change  Sloan Management Review 3, 1995, pp. 22-30  6 G u mmesso n  E    Qualitative Methods in Management Research Sage Publications Inc, Newbury Park, 1991  6 Yi n R   Case Study Research fourth edition, London Sage Publications, 2003  69 H  Ba rk i a nd A   P i ns onne a u lt A Model of Organizational Integration, Implementation Effort, and Performance Organizational Science, Vol. 16, No.2 2005, pp.165-179  70 J  G  Moone y a nd D   G a nle y  Enabling Strategic Agility Through Agile Information Systems: The Roles of Loose Coupling and Web Service Oriented Architecture  In Desouza, K.C. \(ed Agile Information Systems Conceptualization, Construction and Management Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann, 2007, pp.97-109  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


