Design and Analysis for RFID Authentication Protocol   Zhen Zhang 1 Shijie Zhou 1   1 SCSE, the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China zhangzhenjua@163.com,sjzhou@uestc.edu.cn Zongwei Luo 2 2 ETI, the University of Hong Kong zwluo@eti.hku.hk   Abstract  Radio frequency identification \(RFID\ technology has been widely used in ubiquitous infrastructures. On the other hand, the low-cost RFID system has potential risks such as privacy and security problems, which would be a big barrier for the application. First of all we analyze the current security protocols for the RFID system. To protect user privacy and remove security vulnerabilities we propose a robust and privacy preserving mutual authentication protocol that is suitable for the low-cost RFID environment. Finally the correctness of the proposed authentication protocol is proved by the BAN logic  1. Introduction  As an important technology, the secure problems of the RFID system attract a lot of attention. The low cost demanded for RFID tags forces them to be very resource limited. Thus the current Cryptographic algorithm can’t be directly used on them. A robust authentication protocol plays a key role in the RFID system. Unfortunately, most of the existing proposed protocols have some problems. Therefore, we put forward a robust RFID protocol and give a comprehensive analysis of it  The paper is organized as following: in section 2 the related protocols are introduced. Our approach is proposed in section 3. In section 4, we analyze our protocol in several aspects. Finally, we make the conclusion in section 5   2. Related Work  In the HB  th e T I D is in creas ed i n  each successful authentication session which can resist replay attack. The protocol also resolves the location problem by making a tag’s ID randomized in each interrogation. Unfortunately, this protocol can not resist man-in-the-middle attack. The attacker can query any tag before it is interrogated by the legitimate reader and he can be authenticated with the obtained data HB  3 n t h e co m p u t atio n a l h a rd n e ss o f  Leaning Parity with Noise problem. It is also prone to the similar attack as Selwyn Piramuthu analyzed in  This is a great problem that the protocol may possibly reveal the secrets to the adversary. On the other hand the protocol is a unilateral authentication protocol LMAP l y us es t h e m o s t  bas i c operat i o n s s u ch as bitwise XOR 003p bitwise OR 001 itwise AND 001  and addition of mod2 m The random number is generated by the reader. Thus the cost is very low. But it also has some problems. As Li and Wang showed in 
IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering 978-0-7695-3395-7/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICEBE.2008.92 574 
IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering 978-0-7695-3395-7/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICEBE.2008.92 574 


 t h i s prot ocol i s  pron e t o be u n d er t w o k i n d s of  active attacks: De-synchronization Attack and Full Disclosure Attack  3. Robust Protocol Design  3.1. Main Idea  Our protocol is based on the challenge - response mechanism. The contents of tags can be searched out by the server through index-pseudonym \(IDS\. The mutual authentication between tags and the server is fulfilled by sharing a secret key. In each round, the back-end server and the tag update the secret key which ensures that the tag’s response is random. In our protocol, all important messages are encrypted with the hash algorithm  3.2. System Assumptions and Initialization  We assume that each tag shares a random secret key with the back-end server in the initiation. The secret keys are stored in the back-end database and can be indexed by the IDS. Tags only need to have a one-way hash function and the XOR ability. The reader and the server share a secret key K and can carry out the keyed hash operation with the K The records including the IDS, the key and the application-related information are managed by the back-end server Besides, the reader is not regarded as the trusted third party \(TTP\ So it must be authenticated by the server    3.3. Detailed Description       DB      Reader     Tag   Figure 1 Our protocol   The process of our proposed protocol is shown as figure 1 1\hallenge: Firstly the reader generates a random number r and calculates S = H K  r     2\espond: While receiving the challenge, the tag responds IDS, m=H\(key S C\ to the reader. The Chip unique serial number, C, is embedded in each tag  3\The reader forwards the certification information to the back-end server, including r, S, IDS and m  4\hile receiving the authentication information from the reader, the back-end server firstly certifies the reader through judging whether the received S is equal to H K  r so, the server considers the reader is valid and retrieves the corresponding information of the tag such as the secret key, IDS, C and so on, through the received IDS. Then the server calculates H key S C d compares it to the received m. If they are equal a random number R is generated by the back-end server, which is used for XORing with the old key to generate the new secret key key   key R and the new index IDS  H key  Here we have two problems must be solved, the uniqueness of the IDS and the anti-synchronization between the back-end server and the tags. A reasonable mechanism is designed to solve the first problem. We make the server testing the uniqueness of the H key  If the new index is not unique, the server renews R until H key es unique. For the second problem an anti-synchronous resistant mechanism is needed since the attacker may probably disturb the synchronization of the update between the server and the tag. If the attacker is successful, the valid tag can never be legally certified. We use the existing anti-synchronous resistant mechanism such as the mechanism described in t o  s o l v e t h i s  probl e m        5\While receiving the information from the reader the tag retrieves the stored key and calculates H key R the output is equal to the received H key R e tag considers that the reader is valid and carries out the update accordingly 
575 
575 


4. Analysis of Our Protocol  4.1. Logic Analysis  In this section, we will validate the correctness of the proposed protocol based on the BAN logi BAN logic is the most important tool to formalize the authentication protocols. The basis for the logic is the belief of a party in the truth of a formula. Although there are other validation logics, we have chosen BAN because its formal process is simple and robust Since the main entities of this authentication process are the back-end server and the tag, we idealize the entities in the protocol as B and T 1\eneric type of protocol Message 1: B T S Message 2: T B: H key H\(key S C Message 3: B T R, H key R  2\ized protocol Message2: T B H H C Message 3: B T H R 3\itial assumptions Firstly, we can see the tag and the back-end server both believe their shared secret key and it’s rational because this is the basic purpose of the protocol’s design. Because the tag updates the secret key in each round, the key can be regarded as fresh  The assumption for the effectiveness of the key  A1  B   A2    The assumption for the fresh of the random number   A3   R  A4  B   S\ \(A5   key 4\The goal of the protocol  B   T      B   5\ication From the message 2, we can educe that  B H C From the assumption A1,we can see B    According to the Interpretation Rule    We can deduce B   T H  C Because B can search out the key and the chip serial number C of the tag, we can educe that  B C  B S, B    Applying the hash rule     We can deduce that   B   T  C  Applying the recognizability rule    We can deduce that  B   T    And from the assumption A4: B   S Applying freshness rule    We can deduce that: B    C  Applying and B   T   The first goal has been proved, now we will prove the second goal From the message 3, we can see: T H\(key, R  From the assumption A2: T    According to the interpretation Rule    We can deduce that: T   B H  Because the tag can see R: T R, T   Applying hash rule we can deduce that  T   B  R  From the assumption A5: T   key Applying the freshness rule     We can deduce that: T   R  According to and T   B   R Applying the recognizability rule   We can finally deduce that: T   B    So the second goal has been proved  4.2. Theoretical evaluation  We evaluate the protocol by judging whether the protocol satisfies the security requirement  1\nfidentiality and Integrity: The important information is hidden by the hash function In addition, we link C to the authentication information so as to ensure the data integrity 2\ility: We use the IDS as an index to help the server to search out a tag’s information, so the searching is efficient 
576 
576 


3\vailability Man-in-the-middle Attack Prevention Our protocol is based on a mutual authentication, in which two random numbers R and r, refresh in each round of the protocol, are used. Moreover, we make the server validate the reader through the S=H K r\hus the adversary who wants to impersonate the valid reader can be detected Forgery Resistance The chip serial number C is embedded into the tag and refers to the authentication information. Thereby the simple forgery of tag can’t make any sense. In addition, the secrete information stored in each tag is pertinent to itself Replay Attack Prevention: Since the reader challenges the tag with the random information, the replay attack in step 2 can be prevented. Since the key and the m refresh in each round, the replay attack in step 3 and step 5 can be detected De-synchronization Resistance: we use the existing anti-synchronous resistant mechanism such as the mechanism in [5  m eet th i s  req u ire m en t 4\ocation Privacy: If the responses from the tag are constant, the location of the tag can be tracked. In our protocol, the response of the tag will be random in each protocol run. Hence the location privacy is guaranteed 5\orward Security Since the key updating is fulfilled whenever the authentication is successful, a future security compromise on an RFID tag will not reveal the data previously transmitted   5. Conclusion  As we discuss, the proposed protocol is correct and suits for the low-cost environment. It can also ensure the privacy of the tag, meet most of the security requirements and re sist the typical attacks Several mechanisms are used to make the protocol more robust, such as the dynamic refresh mechanism, the anti-collision mechanism and challenge-response mechanism The further work is to design a more robust anti-synchronous resistant mechanism to enhance our protocol  References  1 T  L i G   W a ng Se c u rity  A n a l y s is o f Tw o  Ultra-Lightweight RFID Authentication Protocols. IFIP SEC 2007, 14-16 May, Sandton, Gauteng, South Africa, 2007  2 Se lwy n P i ra m u thu. HB a nd Re la te d L i g h tw e i g h t Authentication Protocols for Secure RFID Tag/Reader Authentication. Decision and Information Sciences University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611-7169.,2007   J Bri n ger H C h ab ann e   an d E  Do t t a x  H B a Lightweight Authentication Protocol Secure Against Some Attacks," IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Services, Workshop on Security, Privacy and Trust in Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing - SecPerU, 2006  4 Pe r i s L o p e z   J   C  Hernandez-Castro, J. M Estevez-Tapiador, A. Ribagorda: LMAP: A Real Lightwight Mutual Authentication Protocol for Low-cost RFID tags Proceedings of RFIDSec06 Works hop on RFID Security 12-14 July, Graz,Austria, 2006   L ee S  M   Hw an g Y J  L e e D H  L i m J I  Ef f i cien t authentication for low-cost RFID systems. Proceeding of the International Conference on computational Science and Its Applications\(ICCSA 2005\. Lectures Notes in Computer Science 3408, BerkubLSpringer-Verlag,2005  6 H e nr ic i D  Mu lle r  P. H a s h b a s e d e nha nc e m e n t of l o c a tio n  privacy for radio-frequency identification devices using varying identifiers. In : Proceedings of the 2 nd IEEE A nnual Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communication Workshops, Washington, DC, USA,2004   M i ch ael Bu rr o w s M a rt i n A b ad i  Ro ger Need h a m   A  Logic of Authentication, DEC SRC Research Report 39 1989 
577 
577 


1 Pdf of voice and silence 4 Pdf of voice and silence Scenario 3 2 Pdf and fitted distribution for voice Scenario 4 5 Pdf and fitted distribution for voice Scenario 5 3 Pdf and fitted distribution for silence 6 Pdf and fitted distribution for silence 7 Pdf of voice and silence 8 Pdf and fitted distribution for voice 9 Pdf and fitted distribution for silence Figure 2 Probability density functions for voice and silence intervals with Gamma distribution approximations 3 VIDEO TRAFFIC MODEL A traffic type of very high interest for mission scenarios is real-time motion imagery live video The challenge in transmitting this type of traffic comes from its sheer volume of data In order to accommodate real-time transmission of motion imagery one needs to consider various compression scenarios One of the current leading industry standards which seems to be a good candidate for future mission video transmissions is the H.264 encoding technique For this reason in this study we have chosen this technique as the baseline compression method for determining the traffic pattern of a live video transmission Using this standard we 5 


have analyzed and characterized the stochastic distribution of frame sizes of various NASA Shuttle and International Space Station video scenarios which have been taken from the public domain archives The rest of the section is organized as follows Below we present some of the features of MPEG 4 encoding techniques and we provide some statistical information of the frame sizes for video transmissions of generic video streams Subsequently in this section we analyze and characterize the statistical distribution of the MPEG 4 frame types for various NASA mission scenarios Results on MPEG Encoded Video Traffic In this section we provide some existing literature results on MPEG encoded video traffic We will expand the use of some of these results in the next section when we analyze the traffic pattern of mission specific videos MPEG Overview Due to the high bandwidth needs of uncompressed video streams several coding methods for compressing these streams have been developed One of the most widely used such methods has been MPEG coding There are three main schemes of MPEG encoding particularly MPEG-I MPEG-II and MPEG-IV3 MPEG-I schemes are a subset of the MPEG-II schemes The main difference between the two methods is that MPEG-II also provides support of interlaced video the format used by analog broadcast TV systems Another characteristic of MPEG-II video is that it is not optimized for low bit-rates less than 1 Mbit/s but outperforms MPEG-I at 3 Mbit/s and above All standards-conforming MPEG-II video decoders are fully capable of playing back MPEG-I video streams MPEG-IV is an expansion to MPEG-I to support video/audio objects 3D content low bitrate encoding and support for Digital Rights Management MPEG-IV also includes some higher efficiency video standards which may be an alternative to MPEG-II video MPEG Video Coding An HDTV camera generates a raw video stream of more than one billion bits per second This stream must be compressed if digital TV is to fit in the bandwidth of available on broadcast channels or be stored on digital media Fortunately video compression is practical since the data in pictures is often redundant in space and time For example the sky can be blue across the top of a picture and that blue sky can persist for frame after frame Also because of the way the eye works it is possible to delete some data from video pictures with almost no noticeable degradation in image quality TV cameras used in broadcasting usually generate 50 pictures a second in Europe or 59.94 pictures a second in North America Digital television requires that these 6 was abandoned Originally this standard was designed for HDTV but later was discovered that MPEG-II with extensions was sufficient for Note that MPEG-III standard HDTV pictures to be digitized so that they can be processed by computer hardware A common trick to reduce the amount of data that must be processed per second is to separate the picture into two fields the top field which is the odd numbered rows and the bottom field which is the even numbered rows The two fields are displayed alternately This is called interlaced video Two successive fields are called a frame The typical frame rate is then 25 or 29.97 frames a second If the video is not interlaced then it is called progressive video and each picture is a frame MPEG-2 supports both options MPEG-2 specifies that the raw frames be compressed into three kinds of frames I\(ntra-coded P\(redictivecoded and B\(idirectionally predictive-coded frames An I-frame is a compressed version of a single uncompressed raw frame It takes advantage of spatial redundancy and of the inability of the eye to detect certain changes in the image Unlike P-frames and B-frames Iframes do not depend on data in the preceding or the following frames P-frames provide more compression than I-frames because they take advantage of the data in the previous I-frame or Pframe P-frames use similar coding algorithms to I-frames but with the addition of the motion compensation with respect to the previous Ior P-frame I-frames and P-frames are called reference frames The processing of B-frames is similar to that of P-frames except that B-frames use the picture in the following reference frame as well as the picture in the preceding reference frame As a result B-frames usually provide more compression than P-frames B-frames are never reference frames After coding the frames are arranged in a deterministic periodic sequence called a GOP Group of Pictures Each GOP starts with an I-Frame and has a typical length of 15 frames e.g IBBPBBPBBPBBPBB however the standard is flexible about this MPEG video frame distribution In an attempt to characterize the traffic of real time MPEG video encoded streams various video scenarios such as movies TV shows sporting events have been analyzed in the literature 8 For these type of scenarios it has been determined that the frame size distributions for all I P and B frames can be approximated well by gamma distributions Unfortunately the shape of these distributions is highly susceptible to the content of the video being encoded In the literature the following observations have been made on the distribution of the frame sizes based on the video content  For typical TV sequences like sports news and music clips result in high peak bit rates and high 6 


peak-to-mean ratio when compared to movie sequences The reason for this is that rapid movement of a lot of small objects increase the amount of data necessary to encode a sequence The background in the video scenes plays a significant role in shaping the size of the video frames For this reason videos of similar content type e.g movies cartoons sporting events will have highly different statistical distributions of the frame sizes The size of the I-frames P-frames and B-frames highly depend on the amount of movement which exists in the video sequence e.g panning zooming background movement etc While I-frames encode each frame independently their sizes tend to be larger but they are less susceptible to movement than Pand B-frames Pand Bframes since they use the information from other frames in order to encode data tend to be more susceptible to movement Particularly for video sequences where there are a lot of small moving objects Pand B-frames may be of the same size as I-frames MPEG video encoding for NASA specific mission streams In this section we provide an analysis of some NASA mission specific video streams which have been obtained from the public domain archives Using this analysis we provide a tool which synthesizes video traffic that can be imported into a network simulator such as the SCaN simulator Video analysis In developing a good video traffic synthesization tool we need to determine what is the dynamic pattern of video traffic which we are interested in modeling From the literature on dynamic of video traffic 8 we have identified that frame size distributions can generally be modeled well by a gamma distribution For this analysis we have gathered a large set of different NASA specific videos We are presenting 7 particular videos which we have analyzed The set of videos are as follows Table 1 Video clips analyzed Video Video Content number 1 Space Walk I dark background 2 Space Walk II dark background 3 Astronaut working in the dark 4 Astronaut moving inside ISS and looking out the window 5 Astronaut working in a lab I 6 Astronaut working in a lab II 7 Astronaut giving a teleconference The above videos have been encoded into MPEG version 4 format The encoding has the following characteristics  The coding has been done in the CIF format at 352x288 resolution  The quantizer q value we have chosen is 1 80  The video is encoded at 25 frames a second  The encoding is performed with a fixed GOP IBBPBBPBBPBB The videos have been encoded using the ffmpeg video ripping tool   We have used the MP4Box to put mpeg4 codec frames into mp4 multiplexed stream We have input the multiplexed streams into mp4trace program in order to transmit the stream to the network and collect the traffic trace The output of the traffic trace was received in the following form 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 H B B p B B p B B p B B H 13898 2145 2299 3866 2027 2301 4001 1988 2079 3956 2178 1943 13842 14 3 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 4 3 2 14 0 522 0 522 0 522 0 642 0 642 0 642 0.761 0.761 0.761 0.881 0.881 0.881 1.001 The first column of the data set represents the frame number The second column represents the frame type where H  I Frame P  P frame and B  B frame The third column represents the size of the frame in bytes The fourth column represents the q value of the compression The fifth column represents the time stem For analyzing the statistical distributions of the frame sizes using these data sets we have developed three different Matlab scripts called Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer and Frame Distribution Fitting Tool We will present the features of each one of the tools separately Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer The quick distribution analyzer uses the trace of the data sets in order to provide a quick sketch of the distribution for each one of the frame types The program works as follows First it separates all the data based on the type of frames For each one of the frame types it then determines the range of the frame sizes i.e what is the smallest and largest frame size of that type After this step the program divides the frame range in a set of equal subintervals and it determines the number of 7 


frames that fall in each one of the subintervals Finally the program uses the number of frames in each subinterval to plot an approximation of the pdf We note that the number of intervals in range of frame types will correspond to the number of points of the pdf approximation This means that if the number of intervals is small then the plot of the approximate pdf will have a small number of points generating some difficulty in trying to determine an approximate pdf for that frame type On the other hand if the number of frames is too large then there is a very good chance that most of the intervals will have a very small number of frames that fall inside of them resulting in a very choppy plot for the pdf approximation Determining a good number of intervals for each type of frames depends in the number of the frames of that type being analyzed Another problem with such an approach is that by changing the number of intervals for the frame type being analyzed in the case in which the number of frames of that type is small the pdf plot generated can change significantly This is due to the fact that a large number of frames may fall on one side of the boundary of such an interval In the case in which one changes the number of intervals these frames will now fall inside a different interval There are some benefits however for using this Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer First of all it provides a very quick plot which is a rough approximation of the frame size distribution Although the approximations generated by the Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer are better the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer generates plots order of magnitude faster Also the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer provides statistics to the user for each type of frames such as mean and variance of frame sizes minimum and maximum frame size Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer In the previous subsection we presented a program which generates a quick and rough approximation of the frame size distribution given the input data from the video traces The problem with that analyzer was that the distribution generated by the program is highly dependent on the quantization level of the ranges of the frame sizes and is generally not a smooth function due to the limited number of frames in the data sets scenario each one of the frames analyzed should be assumed not to have a size which is deterministic but rather comes from a distribution which is centered on that frame size One such distribution generally used for this type of filtration is a Gaussian normal distribution The benefits of using such a filtration are as follows  The distribution generation will not need to use a quantization technique so the program will not suffer from the quantization issue  The frame size distribution generated using such a filtration method will smooth out some of the noise due to the limited number of data points  We have seen that gamma distributions tend to be a good approximation for frame size distribution of each type Since gamma distribution is a smooth function by filtering some of the statistical noise using a filtration it will enable us to better determine the parameters for the gamma distribution which best approximate video for specific mission scenarios Frame Distribution Fitting Tool This tool is used in conjunction with the Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer in order to approximate by a gamma distribution the pdf of the frame sizes for all three types of frames Using this tool the user is able to adjust the two parameters describing the gamma distributions particularly the mean and the K-value which directly influences the variance of the distribution In particular a larger scale will make the distribution taller and narrower For all the data sets the mean of the gamma approximation was taken to be equal to the mean of the true data The K-value was adjusted accordingly in order to best fit the approximation to the true data Analyzed data In this section we present statistical data for the various scenarios proposed This data was gathered using the tools described in the previous sections In Table 2 we provide for each scenario analyzed the mean and the variance of the frame sizes of the I P and B frames We also provide the K-value for the gamma distribution which is centered and the data mean and best approximates the statistical data We plot the approximate gamma distributions for the various types of frames for each one of this scenarios in Figure 3 In this section we present a program which does not suffer from the quantization issue of the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer Also this program filters out some of the statistical noise which is due to the limited data sets We motivate the intuition for this filtration as follows While making a video of a certain mission scenario a small change in the footage i.e the introduction of a small object in the picture may cause a small change in the encoded frame sizes For this reason while trying to derive a generic distribution to characterize a particular type of video 8 


Table 2 Statistical data for the video frame sizes Scenario I Frame P Frame B Frame 1 Mean 11132 2198 1445 Variance 641670 1363699 229042 KValue 1000 40 90 2 Mean 12030 2130 1447 Variance 492274 980614 154652 KValue 1400 18 70 3 Mean 17987 9406 5587 Variance 3727982 2534264 957960 KValue 170 40 36 4 Mean 14865 8024 5288 Variance 12791453 7026961 5181387 KValue 35 10 7 5 Mean 29453 3218 1638 Variance 605856 1624535 169528 KValue 2300 7 20 6 Mean 29940 3419 1791 Variance 985797 894260 191346 K Value 1700 13 20 7 Mean 35390 7721 3091 Variance 24828010 5436021 3807843 KValue 65 12 10 Scenario I I Frames P Frames BFae r,l iFil   S  WSt  X S iil  I Xf,l  1 iii I t 11 1 I 2604t l 1 I F 1 r0 q  gr 1      Scen rio 9 I Frames  P Frames B Frames  W 


Scenario 3 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 4 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 5 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 6 I Frames P Frames B Frames 10 i m U 


Scenario 7 Figure 3 Plots for the frame size distributions for the various scenarios along with the as the SCaN simulator based was available 11 I Frames P Frames B Frames T  I-1 a-2--a 0 0 0 0 0 m on Qualnet 4 TELEMETRY TRAFFIC MODEL Telemetry transmissions from the spacecraft to the command center generally take as follows First some are aperiodic These traffic may represent various instrumentation measurements sensory outputs file downloads etc On the right side of the picture was not partitioned into sub-channels but rather data was transmitted only when it we come to the following conclusions about the packet size distribution for this type of encoding scheme  In the we present we determine the statistical distribution of the type of video which we are interested in transmitting As we note from the above picture the telemetry transmission wastes one can use the traffic synthesizing tool to generate random traffic whose frame statistical distribution approximates the distribution of the traffic which a lot of bandwidth when a lot or blue sky the size of the I frames is relatively small see scenarios 1 4  In the are much smaller than those of I frames see scenarios 1,2,5,6,7  If the main object in the picture is moving quite are multiplexed together Some of these traffics are constant bit rate are described by on the above data a large evenly painted surface a file in a large amount of bandwidth The type of traffic that generally is being transmitted via a telemetry channel is formed by multiple types of traffic which so that each telemetry data has its a particular sub-channel For this reason cases the telemetry transmission will look something like in Figure 5 Contrary to Figure 4 right side in Figure 5 the channel own designated sub-channel see Figure 4 For example in the left side of Figure 4 can be used by network simulation tools such we are interested in analyzing This synthesized traffic generated by we designate each telemetry type to we have seen one can model the frame sizes of the different type of frames by gamma approximations Based or there is very little detail in the pictures i.e the pictures are of even if the picture has many objects with rich detail the sizes of P and B frames even if the background is rather stationary the distribution of the frame sizes is much thicker i.e having higher variance see scenarios 3,4,7 Video synthesis In this section a video synthesizer for MPEG v4 encoded video which has been developed in order to generate sample traffic for live video transmissions The synthesizing of the video traffic is done a gamma distribution Using the tools developed above on preexisting traffic of the type we are interested to transmit one can find the parameters of the gamma distribution which best fit this type of traffic Given the parameters determined by those tools our tool is outputted to a format which some are periodic in nature while others may be event based non-periodic The classical approach to telemetry is to schedule the transmission we see multiple types of traffic some of which a constant bit rate some are periodic and we see the traffic being fit through a channel which has been partitioned into sub-channels Figure 4 Traffic allocated to dedicated channels As a more desirable approach would be to multiplex together all of the transmissions In such case in which the background for the video is dark case in which there is little movement in the background 


Figure 5 Statistically multiplexed traffic We note that in this case we would be able to utilize some of the free channel space for other types of transmissions which may be more delay tolerant see Figure 6 For example in this figure the bottom blue transmission can be thought to be a file which is packetized and needs to be transmitted down from the spacecraft We consider this file to be delay tolerant i.e the data is not needed right away down on the ground and it has a lower priority then the other traffics needed to be transmitted The delay tolerant packets will be transmitted only when the channel is not being fully utilized as to fill in the gaps available in the channel bandwidth This technique will delay the arrival of the delay tolerant traffic but will enable us to more fully utilize our channel bandwidth m T]T m Figure 6 Telemetry traffic along with delay tolerant traffic being sent via a channel We note in above scenario that although the delay tolerant traffic was transmitted at time 0 none of it was able to be transmitted until time 1 Also we note that the final delay tolerant traffic packet was transmitted 9 time instances later then it was received For this reason a buffering scheme must be devised such that all the delay tolerant traffic may be buffered until enough bandwidth for transmission exists Since no specific data was available on the dynamics of the various telemetry type traffics we developed a generic telemetry model which is formed by two types of traffic one constant bit rate which represents the sensory information which is constantly being transmitted down to the ground and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents file download and periodic data updates We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to telemetry constant bit rate  peak of intermittent transmission We will also assume that the intermittent transmission file transfer will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new files are ready to be transferred Using the above model we created a Matlab based tool for synthesizing traffic for simulation purposes The traffic generated by this tool is output to a file in a format which can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 5 COMMAND TRAFFIC MODEL The model for the command will be similar in spirit to the model which we have proposed for telemetry We see the data transmitted for command to be formed by two different types of transmission One constant bit rate which represents calls to various preloaded spacecraft subroutines and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents subroutine uploads to the spacecraft We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to command and we also assume that the intermittent transmission subroutine upload will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new subroutines are ready to be transferred Using this model we have developed a Matlab based traffic synthesizing tool The traffic provided by this tool can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 6 CONCLUSIONS This work has resulted in the development of a suite of traffic models that captures the fundamental types that will be in the space communications environment and in particular These models provide the capability to investigate the new IP-based communications functions and resulting performance that are required by the human exploration missions of NASA's Constellation Program and the Space Communications and Navigation SCaN network's ability to support them Four prototypical traffic models have been developed from which any number of streams may be generated 1 audio/voice 2 real-time motion imager live video 3 telemetry including both regular periodic data as well as intermittent file downloads and 4 command including periodic data as well as intermittent subroutine uploads The voice traffic model stochastically parameterizes calls talk times and talk spurts Multiple audio analysis tools were developed to assist in the derivation of parameters from data samples taken from relevant space missions Using these tools parameters of probability distributions were fit to data taken from Shuttle/ISS archives 12     n 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


