657  Exploring the Relationshi ps between Students Learning Styles and Social Media Use in Educational Settings Florin Leon Department of Computer Science and Engineering Technical University \223Gheorghe Asachi\224 of Iasi Iasi, Romania fleon@cs.tuiasi.ro  Elvira Popescu Department of Computers and Information Technology University of Craiova Craiova, Romania popescu_elvira@software.ucv.ro    Abstract 227With the growing popularity of Web 2.0 tools in educational settings, it becomes important to investigate the influence of students' learning styles on the adoption and use of 
these emerging tools. Currently, there are only few studies addressing this issue and most of them are based on student selfreported data, e.g., preference, acceptance or attitude toward social media tools, captured by means of questionnaires. This paper explores the relationships between actual students' use of the Web 2.0 tools and their learning styles classified according to Felder-Silverman model. The context of the study is an undergraduate course on Web Applications' Design, with 45 enrolled students. Several machine learning algorithms for classification, association rule induction and feature selection are applied. Results show that learning styles have a limited influence 
on the students' level of interaction with each of the four Web 2.0 tools considered Keywords\227social media, learning styles, machine learning algorithms I   I NTRODUCTION  Even if not yet part of the educational technology mainstream, Web 2.0 tools "have reached a high level of maturity and have been increasingly adopted in educational practices worldwide" [7 T h is ov e r a r ch in g t e rm ref e rs to  various applications built on the Web 2.0 infrastructure, such as blog, wiki, social bookmarking tool, social networking service microblogging tool, media sharing service etc., all of which are also known as social media tools. These technologies can be 
used to foster communication and collaboration between learners and help create online learning networks In this context, it is interesting to investigate the relationship between students' individual differences and their preference and behavior toward the social media tools; this would help identify the success factors of using Web 2.0 tools in educational settings. In particular, in this paper we focus on learning style as one of the individual differences that play an important role in learning, according to educational psychologists [1  Learning style refers to the individual manner in which a person approaches a learning task. For example, some learners prefer graphical representations and remember best what they 
see, others prefer audio materials and remember best what they hear, while others prefer text and remember best what they read. There are students who like to be presented first with the definitions followed by examples, while others prefer abstract concepts to be first illustrated by a concrete, practical example Similarly, some students learn easier when confronted with hands-on experiences, while others prefer traditional lectures and need time to think things through. Some students prefer to work in groups, others learn better alone. These are just a few examples of the many different preferences related to perception modality, processing and organizing information reasoning, social aspects etc., all of which can be included in the learning style concept [1   
During the last decades, many learning style models have been proposed, which differ in the learning theories they are based on, the number and the description of the dimensions they include. For the current study, we focus on one of the most popular models in technology-enhanced learning [3 namely the Felder-Silverman learning style model \(FSLSM 4  A cco r d in g to F S L S M, l e arn e rs a r e ch a r ac te riz e d by th eir  preferences on four dimensions active versus reflective  sensing versus intuitive  visual versus verbal  sequential versus global  Active students learn by trying things out and enjoy 
collaborative working, while reflective students like to think about the material first and prefer working alone Sensing  learners have a preference toward facts and details and they tend to be practical and careful, whereas intuitive learners prefer abstract material, they like to innovate, to discover possibilities and relationships Visual learners remember best what they see \(pictures, diagrams, schemas etc.\hile verbal  learners get more out of words, either spoken or written Sequential learners tend to gain understanding in linear steps while global learners learn in large leaps, being fuzzy about the 
details of the subject but being able to make rapid connections between subjects. It should be noted that these learning styles are seen as tendencies and not fixed, rigid labels The rest of the paper is structured as follows: section II provides an overview of the few related works which explore the relationship between students' learning styles and their preference or behavior toward Web 2.0 tools. Section III describes the context of our study and the approach used for data collection. Section IV details the analysis process: the 978-1-4799-2228-4/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE 


658  machine learning algorithms applied and the results obtained Some discussions and conclusions are included in section V II  R ELATED W ORK  Paper [1 r e po rt s on  on e of  t h e f i rs t s t u d i es w h i c h ex pl o r e  the correlations between students' learning style and their preferences toward Web 2.0 tools. FSLSM was used and the associated Index of Learning Styles \(ILS\ questionnaire [1 was applied at the beginning of the course in order to identify students' styles. Learners' preferences toward Web 2.0 tools were elicited by means of another dedicated questionnaire students were asked to rate various tools \(including blog, wiki podcast, vodcast but also email and Blackboard LMS\on a scale from 1 to 5, for various learning activities \(e.g., reviewing lectures, submitting group projects, having group discussions etc.\. 89 students enrolled in a Web programming course responded to both questionnaires and were included in the study. Pearson correlation was applied and a few significant relationships were discovered: i intuitive learners \(who according to FSLSM, prefer discovering possibilities and relationships and are always ready to try out new things preferred blogs; ii sensing learners preferred email \(a more traditional communication tool, in line with their more careful and detail-oriented nature\ iii visual learners preferred vodcasts \(not surprisingly, taking into account their preference toward pictures, diagrams, flow charts etc.\; iv sequential  learners preferred podcasts \(since they tend to gain understanding in linear steps and follow logical stepwise paths so they could run the sequence of lectures at their own pace over and over again to get a better understanding of the course content\. No correlations were found for the active/reflective  dimension The authors performed also a second study i n w hi c h they analyzed the effects of cognitive style adaptors versus innovators 8 on l e a rn e r ac ce pt an c e of  bl og s an d p o d c a s t s   The context of study was again the Web programming course in which they included blogs and podcasts as support tools Kirton's Adaption-Innovation inventory was used to identify students' cognitive style and a dedicated questionnaire was used to elicit students' perceptions regarding ease-of-use and usefulness of the Web 2.0 tools. 187 students filled in the two questionnaires and were included in the study. The results showed that innovator students are more likely to perceive blogs and podcasts as useful and easy-to-use as compared to adaptor students. Furthermore innovators perceive podcasts as more useful, but less easy-to-use than blogs Paper [3 v es tig at es th e ef f ects  of  lea r n i n g s t y l e on th e  blogging behavior of students in an undergraduate course on software architectures and web technologies. 77 students were enrolled in the course but only 74 of them filled in the ILS questionnaire \(for identifying learners' FSLSM dimensions and were included in the study. Students were asked to use blogs as a kind of personal journal, including insights and remarks on the tasks, problems encountered and solutions found, reflections on the project and teamwork, etc.; however the blogging activity did not count toward students' grade. The blogging activities were integrated into the course learning management system and various student actions were recorded in a log file. Rank correlation analysis was used in order to find relationships between students' learning style and these blogging actions. No significant results were found regarding i\ the number of visits to the blogging environment; ii\ the frequency of reading others' blogs; iii\ the preference for using links from the 20 recent blog postings. Some significant correlations were found for the active/reflective dimension: i active students tend to post more frequently to their blogs than reflective students; ii reflective students' ratio of reading other blog postings vs. posting to their own blogs is significantly higher than that of active students; iii active students use charts displaying the number of postings and peer rating more often than reflective students. One significant correlation was found for the sequential/global dimension as well sequential  learners tend to write longer posts than global learners. Overall results show that the blogging behavior is only slightly influenced by learning style, at least from a quantitative point of view; the blog content needs to be further analyzed in order to take into account the quality of students' contributions as well Paper [10  an aly zes th e in f l u en ce of l ea r n i n g s t y l e an d  competence level on students' perceptions regarding the utility of various e-learning services, tools and content. VAK learning style model is used, categorizing students as visual  auditory or kinesthetic or a combination thereof\. The learning style was identified by means of a dedicated inventory, while students opinions were gauged by means of a Likert-style survey. 31 students participated in the study and filled in both questionnaires. While the opinion survey addressed a variety of issues \(e.g., knowledge acquisition services, communication services, performance assessment services, content media type and instructional role\, here we summarize only the findings related to Web 2.0 tools Visual and auditory students rated wikis as highly useful services, regardless of their competence level auditory students with lower knowledge level also perceived blogs as useful, while kinesthetic students favored media sharing services for their online video tutorials. Social networking systems \(such as Facebook\ were among the top rated communication services for all students, regardless of their learning style. However, it should be mentioned that the paper only provides descriptive results and the statistical significance of the findings is not addressed Several other authors investigated the correlations between learning style and self-reported preference for social media tools used for educational purposes, with various results, e.g 200  paper re por t s n o si gni fi ca nt r e l a t i o nshi p s b e t w e e n students field-dependent/field-independent style and their attitude toward blogs 200  paper [2 e po rts th at intuitive students \(according to FSLSM\ere willing to deliver their knowledge and experience through blogs, as opposed to the students w ith visual preference Overall, the reported findings are somewhat contradictory a few correlations have been found, but they are not consistent throughout the studies. It should be mentioned however that various learning style models were involved and different experimental settings were employed. Also, most of the studies were based on student self-reported data, e.g., preference acceptance or attitude toward social media tools, captured by 


659  means of questionnaires. Paper [3 a n o ta bl e ex ce pti o n   relying on actual student performance and analysis of behavioral patterns. Our study also explores the relationships between actual student interaction with the Web 2.0 tools and the FSLSM dimensions. As far as analysis techniques are concerned, statistical correlation tests were the main methods employed in the above studies; in contrast, our approach is based on machine learning algorithms for classification association rule induction and feature selection. More details regarding the experimental settings are presented in the following section III  C ONTEXT OF S TUDY  The context of our study is a course on "Web Applications Design" \(WAD\, delivered to 4th year undergraduate students in Computer Science from the University of Craiova, Romania 45 students were enrolled in the course, being split in 11 teams each team had to develop a relatively complex Web application, over the course of one semester. The instructional scenario used was project-based learning PBL\ which was implemented in a blended mode: weekly face-to-face meetings between each team and the instructor alternated with online collaborative work, supported by social media tools. Four such tools were used 1. Blogger - for documenting the progress of the project i.e., a kind of "learning diary" - reporting each accomplished activity, describing problems encountered and asking for help reflecting on their learning experience\blishing ideas thoughts, interesting findings \(project-related\; communicating with the peers, providing solutions for peers' problems, critical and constructive feedback, interacting with other teams 2. MediaWiki - for collaborative writing tasks among the members of a team; gathering and organizing their knowledge and resources regarding the project theme; clearly documenting each stage of the project as well as the final product 3. Delicious - for storing links to resources of interest for the project \(i.e., a kind of "personal knowledge management tool"\; sharing discovered bookmarks with peers; tagging and rating the collected resources; checking the resources shared by peers \(and especially by own team members 4. Twitter - for staying connected with peers and posting short news, announcements, questions, status updates regarding the project More details regarding the PBL scenario can be found in    All student actions on the four social media tools were monitored and recorded by means of a dedicated platform called eMUSE. The platform gathers learner actions from each of the disparate tools, stores them in a local database for further processing \(together with a description and an associated timestamp\ and presents them to the instructor in suggestive graphical formats. The whole range of functionalities provided by eMUSE can be found in [14  T h e tech n i cal s o lu ti on  adopted for learner tracking and data collection is accessing the Web 2.0 tools by means of open APIs or Atom/RSS feeds in order to retrieve students' actions. This integration of content from several external sources to create a new Web application with added value for the user, is known as mashup technique which is reflected also in the platform name \(eMUSE e mpowering M ash U ps for S ocial E learning The number of actions performed on each tool was computed for each student after the course, as a quantitative measure of the level of involvement of the student with the Web 2.0 tools. Overall, at the end of the semester about 1700 student actions were stored in the platform database While the students' actions were automatically collected by the eMUSE platform, their learning styles were elicited by means of a dedicated inventory, the Index of Learning Styles questionnaire \(ILS\1 IL S  con s i s t s  of 4 4 qu es t i on s   ea ch  with two possible answers. As a result of the test, the learning style of the student is described on a scale between -11 and +11 with a step of +/-2\or each FSLSM dimension; e.g., a score of +9 on the visual/verbal dimension implies a strong visual  preference, while a score of -3 implies a mild verbal  preference. ILS was applied at the beginning of the semester 42 students filled it in and were therefore included in the analysis, as described next IV  A NALYSIS AND R ESULTS  Our goal was to investigate whether there are dependencies and connections between the actions of the students on the four Web 2.0 tools \(as recorded by eMUSE\, and their learning styles. To this end, we used typical machine learning algorithms for classification, association rule induction Apriori  1  an d f eatu r e s e l e c t i o n  ReliefF 9 W e ai m e d a t  determining a symbolic, explicit model that can be easily interpreted. It was also important to use algorithms that belong to different classification paradigms, which can provide different perspectives about the problem at hand. Therefore, we chose a decision tree inducer C4.5 1  a n d a  ge ner a l i zed instance-based method NNGE 11 F r o m th e im p l em en tatio n  point of view, we used Weka 6 a pop ul ar co l l e c t i o n o f machine learning algorithms  The case studies focused on 2 scenarios: the analysis of the number of actions in a category \(i.e., with each social media tool\ and the temporal evolution of the number of actions and their category  A  Scenario 1. The Number of Actions In this scenario, we considered only the total number of actions which a certain student performs on each of the 4 tools We investigated whether it is possible to predict a student's learning style based on the Web 2.0 tools he/she uses for communication, collaboration and learning support We constructed a dataset with each of the 4 descriptors  sequential/global - SG, active/reflective - AR, sensing intuitive - SI, visual/verbal - VV the class and the number of actions for each tool as the inputs The learning styles were discretized into 6 categories, based on the scores obtained on the ILS questionnaire BigNegative \(11 and -9  Negative \(-7 and -5  SmallNegative \(-3 and -1  SmallPositive \(+1 and +3  Positive \(+5 and +7  BigPositive  9 and +11\. For example, for the SG dimension, a positive 


660  value indicates a tendency toward the sequential style, while a negative value indicates a global style. The number of actions was discretized into 5 categories VeryLow, Low, Medium High, VeryHigh  A part of the decision tree induced by C4.5 for the SG style is presented next. In parentheses, the number of correctly classified and incorrectly classified instances are noted respectively. Thus, a resulting rule, although inexact \(14 correctly classified instances and 9 exceptions\is, e.g.: "If the number of Wiki actions is VeryLow and the number of Delicious actions is VeryLow and the number of Twitter actions is VeryLow then SG is SmallPositive    As C4.5 uses the information gain criterion to split data and Wiki i.e., the number of actions performed on the wiki corresponds to the first split, it implies that Wiki is the most important factor to describe the SG model The rules \(generalized exemplars\ provided by NNGE are of the following form \(in parentheses, at the end, the number of instances covered by that rule is indicated   The algorithms were also applied for the other learning style dimensions. The resulting decision trees are quite large which shows that there are no compact rules to describe the learning style depending on the discretized number of actions Also, there are many rules provided by NNGE with many single instances which cannot be included into a generalized exemplar Table I presents the error rates and some descriptors of each model. The unpruned version of the C4.5 algorithm was used because it consistently provided better results for our learning problems. For the decision trees, the number of leaves was used as an indicator of the tree complexity. In terms of the number of rules given by NNGE the number of generalized exemplars or hyper-rectangles H d the number of individual instances or singles S e mentioned The ReliefF feature selection algorithm was applied to identify the most relevant attributes for each classification problem. The results refer only to the algorithm performance on the training sets. Since these errors are very large, there is no point in further applying cross-validation to test the generalization capability. It is clear that the models do not capture the data well  TABLE I  C LASSIFICATION PERFORMANCE FOR THE LEARNING STYLES  AS A FUNCTION OF THE DISCRETIZED NUMBER OF ACTIONS  SG AR SI VV C4.5 error 47.61 47.62 35.71 33.33 C4.5 no. leaves 17 17 17 21 NNGE error 23.81 26.19 28.57 33.33 NNGE no. rules 9H / 9S 8H / 11S 6H / 9S 3H / 18S Most relevant attribute Wiki Delicious Twitter Wiki  Beside classification, the Apriori algorithm was applied to find association rules. First, we analyzed only the relationships between the number of actions. In the brackets, the confidence of the rule is indicated. The rule A B has confidence c if c  of the transactions in the dataset that contain A also contain B  The first 3 high-confidence rules found are the following   For example, one can interpret the first rule as: "When the number of Twitter actions is Low the number of Wiki actions is always Low  Then, the dataset with the number of actions and the learning styles was analyzed. The first 5 high-confidence rules are in this case   However, it seems that these rules do not provide any clear useful causal relationships. We could only infer that students with a low level of activity on one tool tend to have a weak performance on other tools as well Beside the investigations above, the following ones were also attempted: i\ the percentages of actions out of the total number of actions, for a student, instead of the actual number of actions; ii\discretization with 3 classes instead of 5; and iii the comparison of learning styles within student teams. The results were not better than before The high errors on the training set in case of classification can be explained, in part, by the discretization process, where the equal-width interval method may not have captured the trends in the data in a flexible enough manner. However, it is possible to apply C4.5 and NNGE on the unprocessed numerical inputs as well. We performed the same analysis on numerical data, where the inputs were the number of actions for each tool, as percentages out of the total number of actions of a student. Since no information is lost in the inputs, the training set errors are much lower, as shown in Table II By performing 10-fold cross-validation, the error rates become very high. Even if the algorithms, especially the Delicious=VeryLow, SI=BigPositive Twitter=VeryLow \(1 Twitter=VeryLow, Wiki=VeryLow Blogger=VeryLow \(0.94 Delicious=VeryLow, Twitter=VeryLow Blogger=VeryLow \(0.94 Delicious=VeryLow, Twitter=VeryLow, Wiki=VeryLow Blogger=VeryLow 0.93 Blogger=VeryLow, VV=BigPositive Wiki=VeryLow \(0.92 Twitter=Low Wiki=VeryLow \(1 Blogger=VeryLow, Twitter=Low Wiki=VeryLow \(1 Twitter=VeryLow, Wiki=VeryLow Blogger=VeryLow \(0.94 Blogger in {VeryLow} and Delicious in VeryLow} and Twitter in {VeryLow and Wiki in {VeryLow,Low SG = SmallPositive \(3 Wiki = VeryLow Delicious = VeryLow Twitter = VeryLow SG = SmallPositive \(14/9 Twitter = Low SG = SmallNegative \(2/1 Twitter = Medium SG = SmallNegative \(1  Wiki = Low SG = SmallPositive \(4/2 Wiki = Medium SG = SmallNegative \(4/2 Wiki = High SG = BigPositive \(1 Wiki = VeryHigh SG = SmallNegative \(2/1 


661  instance-based NNGE can exactly capture the data, the models do not generalize well TABLE II  C LASSIFICATION PERFORMANCE FOR THE LEARNING STYLES  AS A FUNCTION OF THE RELATIVE NUMBER OF ACTIONS   SG AR SI VV C4.5 error \(TS 17.64 29.41 14.71 17.65 C4.5 no leaves \(TS 9 8 9 8 C4.5 error \(CV 64.71 91.18 61.76 70.59 NNGE error \(TS 0 0 0 0 NNGE no rules \(TS 9H / 6S 9H / 11S 9H / 5S 9H / 5S NNGE error \(CV 76.47 85.29 61.76 58.82 Most relevant attribute  Blogger Delicious Twitter Twitter  One can notice that the most relevant attribute has changed compared to the corresponding value Wiki or SG and VV in Table I. The resulting decision tree for SG is listed below. The most relevant attribute given by C4.5 s information gain criterion Twitter is now different from the value given by ReliefF  Blogger These changes also suggest that there are no stable trends to be identified in the dataset   We present below the hyper-rectangles with the largest number of instances for each learning style, as provided by NNGE    Unfortunately, it seems to be difficult to gain specific insights from these rules that are in line with the theoretical assumptions. Even worse results are obtained when considering the direct relation between an individual tool and a learning style. No single preference toward a learning tool is directly correlated to a learning style B  Scenario 2. The Evolution in Time In this scenario, we analyzed the action data taking time explicitly into account. We discretized the period of data collection into 5 equal intervals, we eliminated the students with only two or three actions and we computed: i\ the total number of actions in each time interval; and ii\or each tool the percentage of its total number of actions in that time interval Table III shows both the training set and the crossvalidation errors, and it is clear that, again, there is no general model to be captured in this way. Similar results were obtained when considering the relations between individual tools and learning styles TABLE III  C LASSIFICATION PERFORMANCE FOR THE LEARNING STYLE AS A FUNCTION OF THE NUMBER OF ACTIONS IN THE 5 TIME INTERVALS  SG AR SI VV C4.5 error \(TS 23.52 26.47 11.76 17.65 C4.5 no leaves \(TS 8 7 9 7 C4.5 error \(CV 73.53 73.53 55.88 64.71 NNGE error \(TS 0 0 0 0 NNGE no rules \(TS 10H / 7S 9H / 6S 8H / 6S 8H / 10S NNGE error \(CV 76.47 73.53 55.88 55.88 Most relevant attribute I3 I5 I3 I3  Finally, association rules were generated for all the available data: the total number of actions in the five time intervals Total1  Total2  Total5 the number of actions corresponding to the four tools in the five time intervals  Blogger1  Blogger2  Wiki5 nd the four learning style dimensions The high-confidence rules with the highest support are displayed below, including class association rules, where the learning styles are always in the right hand side of the rule    and general association rules   As an overall assessment of the obtained results, the rules Delicious2=VeryLow Total4=VeryLow \(1 Total3=VeryLow Total4=VeryLow \(1 Wiki4=VeryLow Total4=VeryLow \(1 Wiki4=VeryLow Delicious2=VeryLow \(1 Delicious2=VeryLow, Wiki4=VeryLow Total4=VeryLow \(1 Total3=VeryLow, Blogger1=V eryLow, Blogger3=VeryLow Blogger5=VeryLow, Twitter1=V eryLow, Twitter2=VeryLow  SG=SmallPositive \(1 Twitter2=VeryLow, Twitter5=VeryLow, Wiki3=VeryLow AR=Positive \(1 Blogger3=VeryLow, Blogger5=Low SI=Positive \(1 Total3=VeryLow, Blogger2=VeryLow, Wiki2=VeryLow VV=BigPositive \(1 4.55<=Blogger<=25 and 0<=Delicious<=10.19 and 12.1<=Twitter<=50 and 25<=Wiki<=77.27 SG = SmallNegative \(6 0<=Blogger<=7.32 and 0<=Delicious<=23.33 and 6.67<=Twitter<=18.18 and 70<=Wiki<=77.27 AR = SmallNegative \(4 15.09<=Blogger<=55.56 and 8.89<=Delicious<=42.11 and 3.45<=Twitter<=38.64 and 0<=Wiki<=46.55 SI = Positive \(6 4.26<=Blogger<=22.22 and 13.79<=Delicious<=40.91 and 17.58<=Twitter<=44.83 and 0<=Wiki<=60.44 VV = BigPositive \(8 Twitter <= 3.45 Twitter <= 0 SG = Negative \(3 Twitter > 0 SG = BigNegative \(2/1 Twitter > 3.45 Delicious <= 10.19 Delicious <= 0 SG = SmallNegative \(7/1 Delicious > 0 Delicious <= 9.09 SG = SmallPositive \(2 Delicious > 9.09 SG = SmallNegative \(2/1 Delicious > 10.19 Delicious <= 25.81 Twitter <= 27.78 SG = SmallPositive \(5 Twitter > 27.78 SG = Negative \(3 Delicious > 25.81 Twitter <= 15.85 SG = SmallNegative \(2 Twitter > 15.85 SG = SmallPositive \(8/3  


662  are quite complex and hard to interpret, especially when they involve a combination of tools. Also, similar conditions appear for different classes \(e.g Negative vs Positive d different conditions appear for the same class or similar classes \(e.g SmallPositive and Positive Some potential causes for these inconclusive results are provided in the next section V  D ISCUSSION AND C ONCLUSION  In this paper we investigated whether there are dependencies and relationships between students' learning style according to FSLSM\d their preference toward certain Web 2.0 tools used as learning support instruments \(according to the number of actions performed on that tool\. The results showed that learning styles have a limited influence on the students level of activity involving each of the four tools \(Blogger MediaWiki, Delicious, Twitter\. In what follows, we provide some possible explanations for these results We only took into consideration the student actions which involve an active interaction or a contribution to the social media tools \(e.g., posting or commenting on a blog, but not reading a blog; adding a bookmark on Delicious, but not browsing peers' bookmarks etc.\. Thus we did not completely capture the preference for a certain tool; for example, a reflective student may have spent a lot of time reading his/her colleagues' blog posts or analyzing their contributions on the wiki, but this type of interaction was not measured. This limitation comes from the type of student actions that can be collected from the social media tools, as they are provided by means of feeds or APIs Also, we did not take into account the content of the students' contributions and the learning tasks they refer to. For example, a sensing and an intuitive student may have had the same number of actions on the blog, but the former may have posted mainly facts, source code and practical examples, while the latter may have contributed with theoretical aspects and innovative ideas. Furthermore, the recorded actions refer to various types of learning activities: creating content  blog_post-entry, wiki_revise-page, wiki_upload-file ocial interactions delicious_add-friend-to-network organizing content delicious_post-bookmark communication and feedback blog_post-comment, twitter_post-tweet 1 bu t i n  our current analysis we did not discriminate among them; this is a limitation that we plan to address in our future work Finally, it may be that learning styles do not influence students' preference and behavior toward the four Web 2.0 tools. This could be explained by students' flexibility to accommodate a wide variety of emerging social media applications into their learning environment, without being limited to a particular tool [1  T hi s a l s o sugge st s t ha t o ur instructional scenario and the tools it relies on are not biased toward any particular learning style. Indeed, these findings are in line with another analysis that we conducted taking into consideration the students' course grades, which showed that FSLSM dimensions have weak or no correlations with the student performance Nevertheless, further studies are needed to fully understand the relationships between learning style and preference toward social media tools in educational contexts These will involve additional action types \(as described above\more analysis algorithms \(including also a qualitative dimension\, as well as a larger number of students R EFERENCES  1  R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases", in Proc. VLDB 1994 pp. 487-499, 1994 2  L.C. Chen, P.Y. Chu, C.C. Lin, and Y.M. Cheng, "The effects of knowledge sources and learning styles of the elders on their motivations to use weblog tools for lifelong learning", in Proc. ICALT 2007 pp.737738, 2007 3  M. Derntl and S. Graf, "Impact of learning styles on student blogging behavior", in Proc. ICALT 2009 IEEE CS Press, pp. 369-373, 2009 4  R.M. Felder and L.K. Silverman, "Learning and teaching styles in engineering education Engineering Education 78\(7\, 1988, preceded by a preface in 2002  www4.ncsu.edu/unity/lockers/users/f/felder/public/Papers/LS-1988.pdf   5  C. Giovannella, E. Popescu, and F. Scaccia, "A PCA study of student performance indicators  in a Web 2.0-based learning environment", in Proc. ICALT 2013 pp. 33-35, 2013 6  M. Hall, E. Frank, G. Holmes, B. Pfahringer, P. Reutemann, and I. H Witten, "The WEKA data mining software: an update SIGKDD Explorations 11\(1\ 2009 7  Z. Jeremic, J. Jovanovic, and D. Gasevic, "Personal learning environments on the social semantic Web Semantic Web 4\(1\, pp. 2351, 2013 8  M. J. Kirton, "Adaptors and innovators: a description and a measure Applied Psychology vol. 61, pp. 622-629, 1976 9  I. Kononenko, "Estimating attributes: analysis and extensions of Relief in L. De Raedt and F. Bergadano \(eds Machine Learning: ECML-94  pp. 171\226182, Springer Verlag, 1994   S.B.Y. Lau and C.S. Lee, "Contextualising e-learning services and content for computing course in higher education based on learning style and competency level Int. J. Learning Technology 5\(3\, pp.211\226242 2010   B. Martin Instance-Based Learning: Nearest Neighbour with Generalisation Master of Science Thesis, University of Waikato Hamilton, New Zealand, 1995   E. Popescu, "Diagnosing students\222 learning style in an educational hypermedia system", in Cognitive and Emotional Processes in Webbased Education: Integrating Human Factors and Personalization Advances in Web-Based Learning Book Series  IGI Global, pp. 187\226 208, 2009   E. Popescu, "Project-based learning with eMUSE: an experience report in Proc. ICWL 2012 LNCS 7558, Springer, pp. 41-50, 2012   E. Popescu, "Providing collaborative learning support with social media in an integrated environment World Wide Web Journal Springer, DOI 10.1007/s11280-012-0172-6, 2012   R. Quinlan C4.5: Programs for Machine Learning Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Mateo, CA, 1993   N. Saeed and Y. Yang, "Using learning styles and preferences to incorporate emerging e-learning tools in teaching", in Proc. ICALT 2008 IEEE CS Press, pp. 967-971, 2008   N. Saeed, Y. Yang, and S. Sinnappan, "Effects of cognitive style on user acceptance of blogs and podcasts", in Proc. ICALT 2009 IEEE CS Press, pp. 293-297, 2009   Z. Shahsavar and B.H. Tan, "The influence of students\222 cognitive styles on their attitudes toward using blogs", in Proc. E-Learn 2010 pp. 21582164, 2010   B. Soloman and R. M. Felder Index of Learning Styles Questionnaire  www engr.ncsu.edu/learningstyles/ilsweb.html 1998   H. A. Witkin Psychological Differentiation: Studies of Development  Wiley, 1962  


the frequency, no need to add the frequency of the Stable count. The frequent item sets are the only immediate parent nodes of the FP-tree \(line 10\ecause all the parent node in proposed FP-tree have greater frequency than the child node                         Figure 9.  Algorithm for mining frequent item set B  Experimental Results of MFI Algorithm Consider the transaction data at ìtable2î.The MFI algorithm derives the following frequent item set and the respective frequency of the frequent item sets TABLE  4  FREQUENT  ITEM  SET Item Frequent Item Set CD {CD:7 BOOKS {BOOK:4}; {BOOK,CD:4 VIDEO  VIDEO:2};{VIDEO,BOOK:2};{VIDEO,CD:2 VIDEO,BOOK,CD:2 DVD  DVD:2} ; {DVD,BOOKS:2}; {DVD,CD:2 DVD,BOOKS,CD:2 GAMES GAMES :2}; {GAMES,CD:2 Figure 10.  Stable count after all transactions The procedure to get the frequent item set is easily understandable. For CD, The fr equency according to the FP tree is ì7î and the user defined support threshold is 2.So according to our algorithm, if FP tree frequency is greater than support then The frequent item set frequency is 7 \(line 9 of the MFI algorithm  And for frequent item sets, consider only the parent node as given at line 10. So, the frequent item set is CD: 7 In the case of VIDEO, the frequency at FP tree is 1.That is less than support. So i\ The frequency is = frequenc y at FP tree + Frequency at Stable count \(line 7 of MFI   So, the frequency is 1+1=2; and the all intermediate nodes up to most frequent item node ìCDî are BOOKS and CD. So the frequent item sets are  VIDEO:2};{BOOK,VIDEO:2};{CD,VIDEO:2};{BOOK VIDEO, CD : 2 In the case of DVD, the frequency of FP-Tree is 2 that is equal to support. According to the line 3 of the MFI algorithm frequency of the frequent item set is also 2.for frequent item set only those item whose have higher FP-Tree frequency that is- CD and BOOKS \(line 5\.So, the frequent item sets are DVD : 2}; {DVD,BOOKS : 2  VIDEO,CD:2 VIDEO,BOOK,CD:2 Now, it is notable that in every previous approach to find the frequent item set generating like [12 ge ne r a t e s t h e 1 i t e ms e t   2-itemset and so on. But in our approach all types of possible item set which satisfy the minimum user defined support is generated once. This is make our algorithm efficient than the others. Now it is quite easy to define the association rules from the frequent item set VI  A SSOCIATION RULE MINING  Let minimum confidence threshold is 60%. The resulting association rules are shown below. For this procedure we will use the term ìFFî for frequent item set frequency R1: BOOKS and VIDEO CD Confidence=FF {BOOKS,CD,VIDEO}/FF{BOOKS,VIDEO 2/2 100% and R1 is selected  R2: VIDEO and CD BOOKS Confidence=FF {BOOKS, VIDEO, CD}/FF {VIDEO, CD  Algorithm 2 For Frequent Item set 1 Mining Frequent Item set  FP-tree, S, C, F, R 2 for each item i in FP-tree where \(i! = R do 3 if i.S = i.F then i.S is the support of the item And i.F is frequency of the item in FP tree  4:         frequency of the frequent item set, K = i.F 5 Generate item set, P = \(i ith the frequency value of   the tree All possible combinations of the item and nodes with higher frequency in FP-tree Frequent item set is written in {P: K} format 6 else  if i.S > i. F then 7   Frequency of frequent item set K = i.F + C  C=frequency in Stable count 8 Generate item set, P = \(i    All possible combination of item and all intermediate nodes up to most frequent item node in FP-tree  9 else Frequency of the frequent item set K = i.F 10 Generate item set, P = \(i    All possible combinations of item and its parent node in FP-tree 11 end of for  


2/2 100% and R2 is selected   R3: BOOKS and CD VIDEO Confidence=FF {BOOKS,CD, VIDEO}/FF 2/4 50% and R3 is rejected  R4: BOOKS VIDEO and CD Confidence=FF {BOOKS, VIDEO, CD}/ F F 2/4 50% and R4 is rejected  R5: VIDEO BOOKS and CD Confidence = FF {BOOKS, VIDEO, CD}/F F 2/2 100% and R5 is selected R6: CD BOOKS and VIDEO Confidence = FF {BOOKS, VIDEO, CD F 2/7 28% and R6 is rejected  In this way, we have found three strong as s we described earlier, we are comparing the  r ex peri m e n t  w e co n s ider th e data fr figure 11 shows the comparisons. We comp a four important procedures, plotted in X database scan,  conditional pattern base, c o generated and candidate set generated by Apriori, FP-growth and proposed MFI a represents the number of times the four p roc e Figure 11.Comparison of three algori t In case of Apriori it scans the total databa s generate 18 candidate set. The FP-growt h p erformance in database scan but it gener a FP-tree, 10 conditional pattern bases w generation. On the contrary, the proposed a total database for 2 times that is equal to F P only 5 conditional patterns  and no condi t candidate set  0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Database scan Candidate set generation Conditional FP-Tree C p 4 18 0 2 0 26 2 00 Apriori FP-growth MFI \(Pro p BOOKS, CD F BOOKS F VIDEO F F {CD s ociation rules. As example given at fr om ìtable 2î.The a re with respect to X axis. They are o nditional FP-tree three algorithmsa lgorithm. Y-axis e dures occurs    t hms s e for 4 times and h shows a better a te 26 conditional w ith no candidate a lgorithm scan the P growth, generate t ional FP-tree and VII  CONCLUSION  In this paper, we proposed a corresponding algorithm MFI approach is surely efficient th a procedures. It reduces the tota l takes less memory. In future w rule mining tool for XML data ACKNOW L This research was supporte d Program through the National NRF\ded b y the Minist r Technology \(2010-0013487 R EFE R 1  R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and between sets of items in large d ACM SIGMODInternational Co n 207-216, Washington, DC, May 2 2  R Srikant, Qouc Vu and R Ag r Item Constrainsî. IBM Research 3  Ashok Savasere, E. Omiecins k Algorithm for MiningAssoci a Proceedingsof the 21st VLDB c o 4  R. Agrawaland R, Shrikanth  Rulesî. Proceedings OfVLDBco 1994 5  Arun K Pujai ìData Mining te c Ltd. 2001 6  J. Han and M. Kamber.Data Mi n Kaufman, San Francisco, CA,20 0 7  J. S. Park, M.-S. Chen, and Algorithm for Mining Associa t SIGMOD, San Jose, CA, May19 9 8  S. Brin, R. Motwani, J. D. U Counting and Implication Rules of the ACM SIGMOD, Tucson A 9  J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, ìMin i Generationî, Proceedings of t h 2000, pp. 1-12   Qin Ding and gnanasekaranSu n XML dataî,Proceedings of the c o   VirendrakumarShrivastava, Dr.p FP-Tree and COFI Based Ap p Association Rules in Large data b Computer Science and Informati o   Irina Tudor, ìAssociation techniqueî,BULETINULunivers i No1/2008,page 49-56   S. Brin, R. Motwani, J. D. Ul l Counting and Implication Rules f   Proceedings of the ACM SI Management of Data, Tucson, A Z   C. Silverstein, S. Brin, and R  Generalizing Association Rules t Knowledge Discovery, 2\(1\, 199   Qihua Lan,Defu Zhang, Bo Wo  mining based on apriori and F P System,2009   Jiawei Han, jian pei, and Yiwen candidate generation î,paper id 1  C onditional p attern base 0 10 5 p osed AND  FUTURE  WORKS   a new improved FP tree and a to mine association rules. Our a n the existing FP-growth based l step of the procedure and also w e will develop the association mining L EDGMENT   d by Basic Science Research Research Foundation of Korea r y of Education, Science and R ENCES  A. Swami.. ìMining association rules d atabasesî. In Proceedings of the 1993 n ference on Management ofData, pages 2 6-281993 r awal. ìMining Association Rules with Centre, San Jose, CA 95120, USA k i and ShamkantNavatheìAn Efficient a tion Rules in Large Databases o nference Zurich, Swizerland,1995  Fast Algorithm forMining Association nference, pp 487 ñ 449, Santigo, Chile c hniquesî. UniversityPress \(India\ Pvt n ing: Concepts and Techniques. Morgan 0 1 P. S. Yu, ìAn effective Hash-Based t ion Rulesî,Proceedings of the ACM 9 5, pp. 175-186 llman, and S. Tsur, ìDynamicItemset for Market Basket Dataî, Proceedings A Z,May 1997, pp. 255-264 i ng Frequent Patterns without Candidate h e ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, TX, May n daraj, ì Association rule mining from o nference on data mining.DMINí06 arveenkumar and DR. K.R.pardasani p roach for Mining of Multiple Level b aseî , IJCSIS, International Journal of o n Security,Vol.7 No. 2,2010 rule mining as a data mining i tatii Petrol-Gaze din Ploiesti,Vol.LX l man, and S. Tsur, ìDynamic Itemset f or Market Basket Data GMOD International Conference on Z USA, May 1997, pp. 255ñ264  Motwani, ìBeyond Market Baskets t o Dependence Rules,î Data Mining and 8, pp 39ñ68  A new algorithm for frequent itemset P treeî, Global Congres on Intelligent Yin, ìMining frequent patterns without 1 96, SIGMOD ë2000 


processing. We call these çfile data sourcesé and çtable data sourcesé respectively. Our data sources pane has functionalities to create either table or file data sources by uploading a chosen CSV file, as shown in Figure 11   Figure 12. View Creation Fu nctionality \(left\ in operation \(right  3  Data Source Attachment Each data attach-point has a specific minimum schema  expectation to be able to make use of the data source attached. The minimum schema expectation makes some attributes mandatory. For example, a demographic data source is required to have a çCustomerIDé attribute that uniquely identifies each customer.  It may have any number of additional attributes; for example, in the unsupervised segmentation workflow, any additional attribute of a customer is used by the clustering algorithm to measure the similarity between customers. Often, the minimum schema attribute names may not exactly match the customerês attribute names. For example, the customer may use CustIDé to uniquely identify a customer whereas the attach-point may be expecting çCustomerIDé. We have incorporated a view creation facility that helps the customer to create a non-materialized view by mapping the attributes in her data source to those expected by the minimum schema. Once such a view is created, it appears as another data source, and can be chosen from the drop down list of data sources. Figure 12 shows how view creation functionality gives the user the option to pick an attribute from her source to the minimum schema attribute, in this case ID, CUSTID, TRANSACTIONDATE, and TOTALPRICE 4  Downloading Results We implemented the workflow execution as an asynchronous operation, where the user finishes the setup uploading data, attaching data sources, choosing the workflow to be executed\d clicks on çsubmité. When the results are ready, the web application alerts the user and provides a link to download the results file V  R ELATED W ORK  Literature related to our work may be broadly classified under three heads: \(1\loud Computing for Services, \(2 Analytics Services, and \(3\orkflows for Analytics  Cloud Computing for Services Cloud computing is the umbrella term used to denote the delivery of computing as a service rather than as a product. Cloud computing provides shared resources, software and information to computing devices as a utility over the network. It has become widely popular over the last few years and has been assessed to be no less influential than any of the previous trendsetting technologies [13   T h o ugh m a n y o b s ta c l e s to the u s a g e o f  cloud computing have been identified in e s a me report emphasizes that the utility of cloud computing is likely to outweigh its disadvantages. Cloud computing provides many advantages such as elasticity and transference of over-provisioning and under-provisioning risks. Forecas u g g e s t th at clou d co m p u t i n g  w oul d  grow at a very fast rate over the next few years.  Cloud computing has been used for a variety of tasks such as parallel data mining d g raph an al y tic s 16   Analytics Services Though popular analytics engines such as SAS, SPSS and R started off as stand-alone applications that need to be installed on a server to be used, recent trends suggest that commercial analytics engines are not far off from delivering full-fledged analytics capabilities on the cloud. Predixion Software 13 and Zementis 14 offer scoring of any PMML 15 model over the cloud, whereas SAS has started to offer many of their functionalities over the cloud  How ev er, to th e bes t of ou r k n o w l edg e, th ere h a s been  a very limited work on providing powerful analytics functionalities over the cloud that can readily be used without requiring considerable expertise in analytics and the specific tool to be used  Workflows for Analytics The main novelty of the solution proposed in this paper rests in the usage of configurable and extensible multi-workflows to make it easy to use analytics despite limited technical know-how. Analytics workflows themselves are not novel and are the primary means of using SPSS \(with the SPSS Modeler component\wever, a typical SPSS workflow is designed to be used by personnel who understand the semantics of typical data mining operations. In particular, SPSS provides a fleet of functionality that is powerful enough to be used across domains, and is not specific to the scenario in which it may be deployed. For example, the semantics of the CustID field is unknown to a generic clustering operator, and under a default setting, the clustering operator would use the CustID field also for clustering leading to the undesirable results of    13  http://www.predixionsoftware.com/predixion  14  http://www.zementis.com  15  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_Model_Markup_Language  
9 
9 


grouping customers with numerically close CustIDs together. We eliminate the need to explicitly specify the exclusion of such attributes, by folding in the semantics of attributes such as CustID \(among others\to the prepackaged workflows. In a pre-packaged workflow for customer segmentation, the fact that CustID needs to be excluded in clustering would already be already preconfigured. The customer can thereby focus on configuring other parameters that are likely to affect business such as number of clusters in the outp ut or the rules to use in designating customers as high-value or low-value. The concept of multi-flows, where a single template workflow can instantiate many possible workflows, has not been developed in prior literature to the best of our knowledge VI  C ONCLUSIONS  Analytics, despite its apparent utility in improving business has not been adopted widely. The main deterrents include the large upfront cost of procuring computing infrastructure and the cost of setting up an in-house analytics team of statisticians and business analysts. Such costs are so high that many small and medium businesses cannot afford traditional analytics solutions, especially in the developing regions of the world due to a spectrum of other deterrent factors that we have outlined. Many such deterrents may be effectively eliminated by the delivery of analytics services on the cloud. In this paper, we propose configurable pre-packaged multi-flows flows that span multiple workflows\ to deliver analytics services on the cloud towards helping to improve analytics penetration Multi-flows bundle together related workflows enabling users to explore and exploit related functionality by making minor configuration changes. We illustrate how changes to workflow configurations may be made easily without any in-depth knowledge of the various operators involved. Our multi-flows are easily extensible to non-disruptively include new functionalities in response to the changing needs of a customer \(or a changing customer base We described a survey of Indian retail players that helped us identify \(and validate our assumptions of\e primary obstacles to analytics penetration in the sector; we also analyzed the major analytics needs of such businesses. We illustrated that many such common analytics needs may be effectively captured within a small number of workflows We developed a fully-functional system that implements the chosen multi-flows for the retail sector. We detailed the various features of the system, the multi-ness of the flows in the system, and example configuration settings that can be used to fine tune specific multi-flows. Through generous usage of screenshots, we illustrated the ease of use of our system; we expect that such enhanced convenience of usage will aid penetration of analytics into new customer bases  Future Work We are exploring further enhancements to improve ease of use of analytics solutions on the cloud including an automatic mapping of attributes in data sources to attach-points by exploiting the data type and distribution Also, making analytics widespread would necessarily involve addressing some of the problems that are applicable to cloud computing in general. These include concerns about data privacy in the cloud and the loss of control of the computation elopin g techn iqu es  to eff ecti v el y an d  provably anonymize of data without affecting the results of specific operators such as clustering or classification is an interesting direction to pursue A CKNOWLEDGMENT  We thank Abhishek Subramanian, Neethu Suresh Shubhendu Aggarwal and Varun Srivastava for efforts in implementing the system and performing market surveys VII  R EFERENCES  1  Todd Morrison, çRetail chain uses in-house analytics team to run SAP BusinessObjectsé, TechTarget Search SAP, 4 th March, 2011 http://searchsap.techtarget.com/news/2240033086/Retail-chain-uses-in-houseanalytics-team-to-run-SAP-BusinessObjects  2  Rakesh Agrawal, and Ramakrishnan Srikant, çFast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databasesé,  VLDB 1994, Chile 3  How to structure a business analytics team http://mybusinessanalytics.blogspot.in/2011/09/business-analytics-teamstructure.html Retrived March 2, 2012 4  MA Rappa, çThe utility business model and the future of computing services IBM Systems Journal, 43\(1\ 2004 5  Brian Hayes, çCloud Computingé, Comm. Of the ACM, 51\(7\, 2008 6  Vibhor Rastogi, Dan Suciu, Sungho Hong, çThe boundary between privacy and utility in data publishingé, VLDB 2007 7  Zhou et. al., çSecurity and privacy in cloud computing: A Survey International Conf. on Semantics, Knowledge and Grid, SKG 2010 8  Marten Van Dijk, Ari Juels, çOn the impossibility of cryptography alone for privacy preserving cloud computingé, 5 th USENIX Conference on Hot Topics in Security, 2010 9  J.B. MacQueen, çSome methods for classification and analysis of multivariate observationsé, 5 th Symp. On Mathematics, Statistics and Probability, 1967   G. Adomavicius and A. Tuzhilin. "Expert-Driven Validation of Rule-Based User Models in Personalization Applications." Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, vol. 5, nos. 1/2, January/April 2001   Mahashweta Das, Deepak P, Prasad Deshpande, Ramakrishnan Kannan, "Fast Rule Mining Over Multi-Dimensional Windows", SDM 2011, Mesa   Michael Armbrust, çAbove the Clouds: A Berkeley View of Cloud Computingé, Technical Report, UC Berkeley, 2009   Daryl Plummer, David Cearley, David Smith, "Cloud Computing Confusion Leads to Opportunity", Gartner Report, 2008   Adam Holt et. al., çCloud Computing takes offé, Morgan Stanley Blue Paper May 23, 2011   Joos-Hendrik Bˆse, Artur Andrzejak, Mikael Hˆgqvist, çBeyond online aggregation: parallel and incremental data mining with online Map-Reduce MDAC 2010 Workshop on Massive Data Analytics over the Cloud   Padmashree Ravindra, Vikas V. Deshpande, Kemafor Anyanwu, çTowards scalable RDF graph analytics on MapReduceé, MDAC 2010 Workshop on Massive Data Analytics over the Cloud   SASÆ for Customer Experience Analytics available via cloud http://www.sas.com/news/preleases/CXACloud.html accessed 13th Mar, 2012   Stallman: Cloud computing is stupidity http://news.cnet.com/8301-1001_310054253-92.html accessed 14 th March, 2012  
10 
10 


278 


0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 100k 300k 500k 700k 900k 1m Time cost \(s data size Rule 1 DA+PA DA+PAP  DAP+PAP  0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 100k 300k 500k 700k 900k 1m Time cost \(s data size Rule 2 DA+PA DA+PAP  DAP+PAP  0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 100k 300k 500k 700k 900k 1m Time cost \(s data size Rule 3 DA+PA DA+PAP  DAP+PAP  0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 100k 300k 500k 700k 900k 1m Time cost \(s data size Rule 4 DA+PA DA+PAP  DAP+PAP  Fig 6 Scalability on data sizes return 5-th largest  U  the same as Figure 2 of the 1st largest The improvement of pruning like DA  PAP in Figure 6 is not as signiìcant as that of 1st largest answers For example in Rule 1 with 1m data size DA  PAP has an improvement about 2200 from 5500 to 3300 in Figure 2 while the corresponding improvement is only about 1500 from 5500 to 4000 in Figure 6 Nevertheless DAP  PAP can still keep the lowest time cost in all the test in Figure 6 VII C ONCLUSIONS Motivated by the utility of differential dependencies  DD s in real applications like violation detection in this paper we study the problem of determining the distance thresholds for metric distance constraints from data Instead of manually specifying requirements of various statistical measures we conduct the determination in a parameter-free style i.e to compute an expected utility of the distance threshold pattern and return the results with the maximum expected utility Several advanced pruning algorithms are then developed in order to efìciently nd the desired distance thresholds Finally the experimental evaluation on three real data sets demonstrates the performance of our proposed methods In particular we evaluate the effectiveness of returned results in the violation detection application and show that the pruning techniques can achieve lower time cost A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The work described in this paper was partially supported by Hong Kong RGC GRF Project No 611411 National Grand Fundamental Research 973 Program of China under Grant 2012CB316200 Hong Kong RGC GRF Project No CUHK 411211 China NSFC Project No 61073005 R EFERENCES  R  A gra w al T  I mielinski and A  N Swami Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases In SIGMOD Conference  pages 207Ö216 1993  R  A gra w al and R  S rikant S earching w ith numbers  I n WWW  pages 420Ö431 2002  C  B atini a nd M Scannapieco Data Quality Concepts Methodologies and Techniques  Data-Centric Systems and Applications Springer 2006  M  B ilenk o R  J  Moone y  W  W  C ohen P  R a vikumar  a nd S E Fienberg Adaptive name matching in information integration IEEE Intelligent Systems  18\(5 2003  P  B ohannon W  F a n F  Geerts  X  J ia a nd A K e ments i ets i dis  Conditional functional dependencies for data cleaning In ICDE  pages 746Ö755 2007  T  C alders  R  T  N g and J  W ijs en S earching f or dependencies a t multiple abstraction levels ACM Trans Database Syst  27\(3 2002  F  C hiang a nd R J Miller  Disco v e ring data quality rules PVLDB  1\(1 2008  W  W  C ohen I nte g ration o f h eterogeneous d atabases without c ommon domains using queries based on textual similarity In SIGMOD Conference  pages 201Ö212 1998  G  C ong W  F a n F  Geerts X  J ia a nd S Ma I mpro ving data quality Consistency and accuracy In VLDB  pages 315Ö326 2007  W  F a n Dependencies r e v is ited f or impro v ing d ata quality  I n PODS  pages 159Ö170 2008  W  F a n F  Geerts  L  V  S  L aks h manan and M  X iong D is co v e ring conditional functional dependencies In ICDE  pages 1231Ö1234 2009  W  F a n J  Li X  J ia a nd S Ma R eas oning about record matching rules PVLDB  2009  Full V e rsion P a rameter free d etermination o f d istance thresholds for metric distance constraints http://ise.thss.tsinghua.e du.cn/sxsong/doc/free.pdf   L Golab H J  Karlof f F  K o rn D  S ri v a s t a v a and B  Y u On generating near-optimal tableaux for conditional functional dependencies PVLDB  1\(1 2008  L Gra v ano P  G Ipeirotis  H  V  J ag adis h N K oudas  S  M uthukris h nan L Pietarinen and D Srivastava Using q-grams in a dbms for approximate string processing IEEE Data Eng Bull  24\(4 2001  J  Han J  W a ng Y  Lu a nd P  Tzv e tk o v  M ining t op-k frequent clos ed patterns without minimum support In ICDM  pages 211Ö218 2002  Y  Huhtala J  K  arkk  ainen P Porkka and H Toivonen Tane An efìcient algorithm for discovering functiona l and approximate dependencies Comput J  42\(2 1999  J  Ki vinen a nd H Mannila A pproximate i nference of functional dependencies from relations Theor Comput Sci  149\(1 1995  N K oudas  A Saha D  S ri v a s t a v a and S  V enkatas ubramanian Metric functional dependencies In ICDE  pages 1275Ö1278 2009  S Kramer and B  P f a hringer  Ef cient search for s trong p artial determinations In KDD  pages 371Ö374 1996  H Mannila and K J  R  aih  a Algorithms for inferring functional dependencies from relations Data Knowl Eng  12\(1 1994  A McCallum K Nig a m and L  H  U ng ar  E f  cient c lustering o f h ighdimensional data sets with application to reference matching In KDD  pages 169Ö178 2000  D Montgomery a nd G R unger  Applied Statistics and Probability for Engineers  Wiley 2nd edition 1999  G Na v a rro A guided t our t o a pproximate s tring m atching ACM Comput Surv  33\(1 2001  T  Schef f er  F inding as s o ciation r ules that trade s upport optimally ag ains t conìdence Intell Data Anal  9\(4 2005  J C Schlimmer  Ef ciently inducing d eterminations A complete and systematic search algorithm that uses optimal pruning In ICML  pages 284Ö290 1993  S Song and L  C hen Dis c o v e ring matching dependencies In CIKM  pages 1421Ö1424 2009  S Song and L  C hen Dif f erential d ependencies  R eas oning and discovery ACM Trans Database Syst  36\(3 2011  S Song L Chen a nd P  S Y u  O n d ata d ependencies i n d ataspaces In ICDE  pages 470Ö481 2011  C  J  v a n R ijs ber g en Information Retrieval  Butterworth 1979  G I W e bb and S  Z hang K optimal rule dis c o v e ry  Data Min Knowl Discov  10\(1 2005 
857 
857 


Knowledge Base Generation by Methodology  Rule1 IF A85<=0.50 AND A93<=0.50 THEN CLASS 1  Rule2   IF A85<=0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A105 <=0.50 AND A97<=0.50 THEN CLASS 3   Rule3 IF A85<=0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A105 <=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A100<=0.50   THEN CLASS 3   Rule4   IF A85<=0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A105 <=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A100>0.50  AND A74<=0.50  THEN CLASS 1   Rule5 IF A85<=0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A105 <=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A100>0.50 AND A74>0.50  THEN CLASS 3  Rule6 IF A85<=0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A105 >0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A95<=0.50  THEN CLASS 1  Rule7 IF A85<=0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A105 >0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A95>0.50  THEN CLASS 3  Rule8 IF A85<=0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A105 >0.50 AND A94>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule9 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75<=0.50 AND A82<=0.50 AND A63<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 THEN CLASS 2  Rule10 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75<=0.50 AND A82<=0.50 AND A63<=0.50 AND A89>0.50    THEN CLASS 3  Rule11 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75<=0.50 AND A82<=0.50 AND A63>0.50   THEN CLASS 3  Rule12 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75<=0.50 AND A82>0.50 AND A93<=0.50    THEN CLASS 3  Rule13 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75<=0.50 AND A82>0.50 AND A93>0.50    AND A95<=0.50 AND A94<=0.50   THEN CLASS 1  Rule14 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75<=0.50 AND A82>0.50 AND A93>0.50    AND A95<=0.50 AND A94>0.50   THEN CLASS 3  Rule15 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75<=0.50 AND A82>0.50 AND A93>0.50    AND A95>0.50   THEN CLASS 2  Rule16 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75>0.50 AND A97<=0.50 THEN CLASS 3 Rule17 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75>0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 THEN CLASS 1  Rule18 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A75>0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A94>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule19 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 <=0.50 AND A88>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule20  IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97<=0.50 AND A100<=0.50   THEN CLASS 2 Rule21 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97<=0.50 AND A100>0.50  AND A63<=0.50 THEN CLASS 2  Rule22 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97<=0.50 AND A100>0.50 AND A63>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 THEN CLASS 2 Rule23 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97<=0.50 AND A100>0.50AND A63>0.50 AND A93>0.50 THEN CLASS 1  Rule24 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 THEN CLASS 2  Rule25 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A100<=0.50 AND A73<=0.50   THEN CLASS 2  Rule26 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A100<=0.50 AND A73>0.50   THEN CLASS 1  Rule27 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A100>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A95 <=0.50   THEN CLASS 1  Rule28 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A100>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A95 >0.50   THEN CLASS 2  Rule29 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A97>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A100>0.50 AND A94>0.50   THEN CLASS 2  Rule30 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88<=0.50 AND A89>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule31 IF A85>0.50 AND A105<=0.50 AND A83 >0.50 AND A88>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule32 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 AND A89>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule33 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A83>0.50  THEN CLASS 2  Rule34 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A83<=0.50 AND A75>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule35 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A83<=0.50 AND A75<0.50 AND A73>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule36 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A83<=0.50 AND A75<0.50 AND A73<=0.50 AND A63>0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule37 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93<=0.50 AND A89<=0.50 AND A83<=0.50 AND A75<0.50 AND A73<=0.50 AND A63<0.50 THEN CLASS 2  Rule38 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A98<=0.50 AND A95<=0.50 THEN CLASS 1  Rule39 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 A ND A 98<=0.50 AND A95>0.50 AND A97<=0.50 THEN CLASS 3  Rule40 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A98<=0.50 AND A95>0.50 AND A97>0.50 THEN CLASS 2  Rule41 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A98>0.50 AND A75<=0.50 THEN CLASS 2  Rule42 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A94<=0.50 AND A98>0.50 AND A75>0.50 THEN CLASS 1  Rule43 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A94>0.50 AND A88<=0.50 THEN CLASS 2  Rule44 IF A85>0.50 AND A105>0.50 AND A93>0.50 AND A94>0.50 AND A88>0.50 THEN CLASS 3 


 X  C ONCLUSION   This paper suggests solution of the three still open problems First, how you can find the actual value of the missing values? By develop of Random forest data mining algorithm Second, solve the problem of taken intelligent analysis of small size of dataset \(i.e, insuffizent size of dataset\y propose new method for generation data called GPDCM Third, how you can get accurate and comprehensible rule base? These done by three stages: first stage, using PCA to reduction dimensional of database. Second stage, FP-Growth data mining algorithm using to generating association rules from the components of PCA of database. Third stage classification that association rules by TreeNet algorithm As result, proposed methodology provides fast, Accurate and comprehensible classification rules. Also, it can use to compression dataset in two dimensions \(number of featuresîby PCAî, number of recordsî by FP-Growth By experiments, found ìthe values of correlation matrix among the predicators \(components of PCA\ are 95 equivalent the rules result from FP-growthî, therefore, we can use correlation matrix as alternative tool in generation association rules R EFERENCES     Breiman, Leo., "Random Forests". Machine Learning 45 \(1\: 5ñ32 2001: doi:10.1023/A:1010933404324   DANIEL T. LAROSE,ìData Mining Methods and Modelsî Department of Mathematical Sciences Central Connecticut State University 2006   Erica C. And Falk H., " Using ìBlackboxî Algorithms Such as TreeNet and Random Forests for Data-Mini ng and for Finding Meaningful Patterns, Relationships, and Outliers in Complex Ecological Data Information science referenc e, Hershey ï New York, 2009   Freitas.A. Data Mining and Knowle dge Discovery with Evolutionary Algorithms. Springer, 2002   Georgios K, Eleftherios K and Va ssili L " Ant Seeker: An algorithm for enhanced Web Search", IFIP Intern ational Federation for information processing, Vol 204 , Artifical Intellegent Application and Innovations pp. 649-656, 2006   Hu, Y-J. A Genetic Programming Approach to Constructive Induction In Proceeding of 3rd Annual Gene tic Programming Conference, pp 146ñ151, 1998   Hussein K., "Knowledge Discovery in database by using data mining Ph.D. Thesis, University of Technology, 2002   Isao Okina ìExtracting uncertain knowledge in database using Binary Causal Network Modelî, Ph.D thesis Linkˆpings university , Sweden 2002   Jeril ì Adboosting an exclusive impl ementation of jerome Friedmanís MART methodologyî., Salford Systems, version 2.0., 2008   Jiaxiong Pi, Yong Shi and Zhengxin Ch en, From similarity retrieval to cluster analysis: The case of R*-trees, IEEE Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Data Mining \(CIDM   Konar A., ìArtificial Inelegant a nd Soft Computing: Behavioral and Cognitive of the Human Brain CRC Press, Florida, 2000   Mannila H., "Data mining: Machnine learning, statistics and databases in Proc. Of 8th Int. Con. On science and statistical database management, p 2-9, Stockholm, Sweden, 1997   McGarry K., Tait J., Wermter S., MacIntyre J. ìRule          Extraction from Radial Basis Function Networks,î                Proceedings of the International Conference on                      Artificial Neural Networks. p 613-618, Edinburgh, UK, September 1999   McGarry K. ìThe Analysis of Ru les Discovered by the Data Mining Process,î 4th International Confer ence on Recent Advances in Soft Computing, Nottingham, UK, December 2000   Mitra P., Mitra S., and Sankar K., ìSta ging of Cervical Cancer with Soft Computing,î IEEE Transactions On Biomedical Engineering, Vol.47 No. 7, July 2000   S. Mitra, P. Mitra, and S. K Pal, Data Mining In Soft Computing Framework: A Survey, IEEE Transac tions On Neural Networks, Vol.13 No. 1, January 2002   Mitra S., Mitra P., and Pal S., Data Mining In Soft Computing Framework: A Survey, IEEE Transac tions On Neur al Networ ks, Vol.13 No. 1, January 2002   Mitra S., "Data Mining: Mult imedia, Soft Computing, and Bioinformatics," John Wiley & Sons Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey, 2003   Mutthew G. and Larry B., "Feat ure construction and selection using genetic programming and a genetic algorithm", LNCS, P 229-237, 2003   Malone J., McGarry K. and Bowerman C., ìUsing an Adaptive Fuzzy Logic System to Optimise Knowledge Discovery in Proteomics International Conference on Recent A dvances in Soft Computing, pp 80-85, November 2004   Malone J., McGarry K, Bowerman C., Wermter S. ìRule Extraction from Kohonen Neural Networks Automated Trend Analysis of Proteomics Data Using Intelligent Data Mining Architecture,îNeural Computing Applications Journal, 2005   Mahdi A Extracting Rules from Databases Using Soft Computing M.Sc Thesis, University of Babylon, 2005   Nomura T. and Miyoshi T., ìAn Adaptive fuzzy rue extraction using Hybrid Model of Fuzzy Self-O rganizing Map and The Genetic Algorithm With numerical Chromosomes,î Kyoto 619-02, Japan,1998   Nian Yan : Classification Using Neural Network Ensemble with Feature Selection., Ph.D thesis Linkˆpings university , Sweden, 2004   Pagallo, G. & Haussler, D. Boolean Feature Discovery in Empirical Learning. In Machine Learning 5, pp. 71ñ99.1990   Pal S., Mitra S., and Mitra P Rough fuzzy MLP: Modular evolution rule generation and evaluation,î I EEE Trans. Knowledge Data Eng 2001   Samaher H. and Mahdi A.," Know ledge Discovery in Data Mining using Fuzzy C-Means Model and Genetic Programming" , IEEE, 4rth International Conference: Sciences of Electronic, Technologies of Information and Telecommunications, March 25-29, 2007   Samaher hussein " Designing a Soft ware for Knowledge Discovery in Database Using Data Mining and Soft Computing Techniques .IEEE 2nd International Conference: E-Medical Systems October  29-31, 2008   Usama F., Gregory P. and Padhraic S., "Knowledge disc overy and data mining: Towards a unifinying fram ework ". pages 82-88, Portland Oregon, USA, August 1996   Ulf Johansson, ìObtaining Accura te and Comprehensible Data Mining Models ñ An Evolutionary Approachî, Ph.D thesis Linkˆpings universitet SE-581 83 Linkˆping, Sweden, 2007   Wen Xiong, Cong Wang, A Hybrid Improved Ant Colony Optimization and Random Forests Feature Select ion Method for56 v/í Microarray Data.  IEEE Computer Society , Fifth International Joint Conference on INC, IMS and IDC, 2009   Xindong WU and Vipin K. ìThe top Ten Algorithm in Data Mining Chaman and Hall/CRC, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Series Taylor & Francis Group, LLC,2009   Zheng, Z. Constructing X-of-N attributes for decision tree learning Machine Learning 40  1-43.2000       


  15  B IO G R A P H Y  S ea n  P   M u l h o l l a n d   s er ve s   S SA V i  s  Se ni or  V i c e  t  G e n e r a l M a n a g e r   a nd Ch i e f  T e c h n o l o g i c a l  O f f i c e r    25  yea r s  o f  exp er i en ce a n d  i s  r eco g n i z ed  i n  t h e in d u s tr y  a s  o n e  o f th e  to p  e m b e d d e d  s y s te m s  en g i n eer  i n  t h e co u n t r y  S ea n  i s  a  co n t r i b u t i n g  a u t h o r  t o  t h e E T M  te c h n ic a l r e fe r e n c e  a r c h ite c tu r e  a n d  h a s  b e e n  ac t i v e  s e r v i ng  a  key  FAC E D a t a  M o d e l  t e c h n i c a l  l e a d er  us i ng T E S  w or k  on t he  J C A  D M    Se an i s  a c o fo u n d e r  a n d  vi ce p r es i d en t  o f  T E S   C o n t i n u i n g   a s  h e i s  d o i n g  t o d a y  Se an w i l l  s e r v e  t o gui de  al l  t e c hnol ogi c al  de c i s i ons  f or  SA V i  s  pr oduc t s  and s e r v i c e s    Se an has  a B  S i n C om put e r  Sc i e nc e  and Sy s t e m s  D e s i gn fr o m  th e  U n iv e r s ity  o f T e x a s  a t S a n  A n to n io  a n d  h a s  o v e r  2 5  yea r s  o f  exp er i en ce i n  s o f t w a r e d evel o p m en t   d es i g n   in te g r a tio n  a n d  te s tin g  e s p e c ia lly  a s i t  re l a t e s t o  m i ssi o n  cr i t i ca l  a n d  s a f et y cr i t i ca l  s ys t em s   S ea n  i s  o n e o f  t h e f o u r  co fo u n d e r s o f T E S    S te p h e n  M  S im i s e r v e s   S SA V I  s  Vi c e  Pr e s i d e n t   St e phe n has  28 y e ar s  of  exp er i en ce d es i g n  a n d  d evel o p i n g  en g i n eer i n g  a n d  s ci en t i f i c a p p l i ca t i o n s   and m anagi ng m ul t i pl e  pr ogr am s   St e phe n is  a ls o  v e r y  a c tiv e  in  th e  F A C E  m s  C o n f o r m a n c e   A i r w o r t h i n e s s   and O ut r e ac h s ubc om m i t t e e s  H e  is  r e c o g n iz e d  an u st ry  i n n o v a t o r o f  agi l e  t e c hnol ogi e s  t hat  c an be  appl i e d t o J oi nt  f or c e s  ac r os s  t he  c om m on ope r at i ng pi c t ur e  bat t l e s pac e  of  C 4I SR  as s e t s   and an i ndus t r y  exp er t  i n  l i f ecycl e d evel o p m en t  o f  r eu s a b l e s o f t w a r e sy st e m s  H e  h a s se v e ra l  t e c h n i c a l  p u b l ic a tio n s  a n d  pr e s e nt e d t o t he  A H S  A O C   A I A A  I E E E  s oc i e t i e s   t o FAC E a n d  M I T RE o n  a r e a s  o f  s o f t w a r e  d e v e l o p m e n t   re u sa b l e  sy st e m s  a n d  a d v a n c e d  m o d e l i n g  a n d  si m u l a t i o n s o f  t h o se  sy st e m s  S t e p h e n  c u rre n t l y  m a n a g e s 4 U S ar m y  pr ogr am s   J C A   M I S  R 2C 2  and M I C     St e phe n has  a B  S  i n P hy s i c al  Sc i e nc e s   M at h C om put e r  Sc i e nc e s   and E ngi ne e r i ng  and a M  S  i n E ngi ne e r i ng fr o m  th e  U n iv e r s ity  o f M a r y la n d  B e fo r e  w o r k in g  fo r  T E S  n  se rv e d  a s t h e  D i re c t o r o f  S o f t w a re  D e v e l o p m e n t   and D i r e c t or  of  Sof t w ar e B u s i n es s  D evel o p m en t  a t  w o r l d re n o w n  o p t i c s c o m p a n y  B re a u l t  R e se a rc h   H e  a l so  se rv e d  as  a t e c hni c al  f e l l ow  at  t he  M I T R E  C or por at i on f or  t he  US  A r my   a n d  s e r v e d  v a r i o u s  o t h e r  o r g a n i z a t i o n s  de s i gni ng  de v e l opi ng  and t e s t i ng e ngi ne e r i ng and sc i e n t i f i c  a p p l ic a tio n s o v e r h is 3 0 yea r  t ech n i ca l  ca r eer            Wi l l i a m   Ta n n e r  has  a B  S  i n Co m p u t e r  S c i e n c e  E n g i n e e r i n g  f r o m  No r t h e r n  A r i z o n a  U n i v e r s i t y  a n d  o v e r  2 0  yea r s  o f  em b ed d ed  s o f t w a r e a n d  em b ed d ed  s o f t w a r e a p p l i ca t i o n  de v e l opm e nt  e x pe r i e nc e   14 of  w hi c h  ar e  i n s of t w ar e  en g i n eer i n g  p r o j ect  a n d  p r o d u ct  m a n a g em en t   B i l l  i s  a  co n t r i b u t i n g  a u t h o r  t o  t h e  E TM  te c h n ic a l r e fe r e n c e  ar c hi t e c t ur e   has  be e n ac t i v e  s e r v i ng i n t he  F A C E  D at a Mo d e l  Wo r k i n g  G r o u p   a n d  i s  t h e  l e a d  d a t a  m o d e l e r  f o r  th e  J o in t C o m m o n  A r c h i te c tu r e   J C A   D a ta  M o d e l   Pr i o r  to  jo in in g  T E S  in  2 0 0 6  B ill w o r k e d  fo r  I B M  a s  a  s o ftw a r e  en g i n eer  i n  t h e d i s k s t o r a g e s ys t em  d i vi s i o n   a n d  P r o j ect  Te c h n o l o g y  a n d  M e n t o r  G r a p h i c s  a s  a  d a t a  m o d e l e r  a n d  pr oj e c t  m anage r  f or  t he  di v i s i on s  U M L  m ode l i ng  f ic a tio n a n d c o d e g e n e r a tio n to o ls    


  16  X  A    L  C ON  Com pa ri s on of L i f e c yc l e A rt i f a c t s  f or S of t w a re t a rge t e d f or A i rborne S ys t e m s  U S A rm y’s A R 70 62  2 A i r F orc e s  516B  15 N a vy’s J S S S C  SSSH  16     


  17  X  B    M TM  P DUCT  TES S A V i A W E S U M TM  l Ba s e d T ool s e t    UM TM    pur pos e l y na m e d a nd c om pos e d  of  a s u i t e o f  i n t eg r at ed  l d to o ls th a t a lig n w ith th e lif e c y c le V m o d e l a n d  co m p o n en t s  d es cr i b ed  b y  t h e R T C A 1  5     Un l i k e  o t h e r  l  ma r k e t  t o o l s e t s   T E S i  UM TM  s    act i v i t i es  S p e c if ic a lly  Sy s t e m s  a n d  So f t w a r e  D e s i g n  p h a s e  th e  le a d in g  e d g e  o f  th e  V  Mo d e l   is  h a n d le d  b y  th e  De v e l o p TM     y TM  mo d u l e  h a n d l e s  t h e   Im p l e m e n t a t i o n  p h a s e   t h e  b o t t o m  s i d e  a n d  V e r if ic a tio n  p h a s e t he  f ol l ow i ng e dge  Ad d i t i o n a l l y  A W E S U M TM  l ba s e d pr oduc t  s ui t e  is  e s p e c ia lly  d e s ig n e d  to  s u p p o r t th e  lif e c y c le  a c tiv itie s  r e q u ir e d  f o r  s t st r i n g e n t  ai r w o r t h i n es s  q u al i f i cat i o n  ef f o r t s  wi t h  o u r  e TM   Qu a l i f y TM  s   Th e s e  p r o d u c t  m o d u l e s  a r e  f u r t h e r  d e s c r i b e d    De v e l o p TM  is  a n  a ir w o r th in e s s  s o f tw a r e  d e v e lo p m e n t e n v ir o n m e n t th a t a c c e le r a te s  d e v e lo p m e n t a n d  e n s u r e s   gh le v e l s y s te m s  re q u i re m e n t s  t h ro u g h  th e  lo w e r le v e l r e q u ir e m e n ts  o f  s o f tw a r e  de ve l opm e nt  pha s e s   De v e l o p  im p o r ts  m o d e ls  a n d  a u to m a tic a lly  s tr u c tu r e s  d e v e lo p m e n t p r o j e c ts  f r o m  ta r g e t d e v ic e le v e l I C D s  S y s te m  E n g in e e r s  f o c u s  o n  c o r e  d e v e lo p m e n t ta s  p  au t o m at i cal l y  g en er at es  d ev i ce co n t r o l  co d e f o r  co m m o n  an d  m o d el ed  f u n ct i o n s   A l l  co d e i n  p  di r e c t l y r e f l e c t s  de s i gn r e qui r e m e nt s   e s t a bl i s hi ng c om pl e t e  doc um e nt a t i on t r a c e a bi l i t y  p  is  u s e d  to  c r e a te  a n d  m a n a g e  th e  s p e c if ic a ti on a nd de s i gn m ode l s  t hr oughout  t he s e  i m por t a nt  re q u i re m e n t s  a n d  d e v e l o p m e n t  l i f e c y c l e  p h a s e s   i  e    t h e  l e a d i n g  e d g e  s i d e  o f  t h e  V mo d e l   T h e s e  s p e c i f i c a t i o n  a n d  d e s i g n  mo d e l s  ar e d es cr i b ed  f u r t h er  i n  3   Ve r i f y TM  is  a  s o f tw a r e  te s tin g  a n d  v e r if ic a tio n  s y s te m  th a t a c c e le r a te s  a n d  in te n s if ie s  r o b u s tn e s s  te s tin g   er phys i c a l  s ys t e m s   C P S   Ve r i f y  ma n a g e s  t h e  v e r i f i c a t i o n  l i f e c y c l e   an d  as s i s t s  i n  d et er m i n i n g  doc um e nt a t i on a nd ve r i f i c a t i on pr oc e s s  c om pl e t i on  ge ne r a t e s  de vi c e  de s i gn t es t s   ex ecu t es  t es t s  t h at  h el p  en s u r e s y s t em  f u n ct i o n al i t y   an d  m an ag es  t es t  r es u l t s   Ve r i f y  de e pe ns  t e s t i ng by or de r s  of  m a gni t ude  co m p ar ed  t o  o t h er  i n d u s t r y  t o o l s  w i t h  r o b u s t n es s  t es t i n g   wh i l e  d r a m a t i c a l l y  r e d u c i n g  t e s t i n g  t i m e  wi t h  a u t o m a t i n g  v e r i f i c a t  act i v i t i es  B y  m a in ta in in g  b i di r e c t i ona l  tr a c in g  lin k s  b e tw e e n  r e q u ir e m e n ts  m o d e le d  c a p a b ilitie s  a n d  s o f tw a r e  c o d e  y   bi  tr a c e a b ility  a n d  e n a b le s  c h a n g e s  to  th e  r e q u ir e m e n ts  d o c u m e n ta tio n  to  g e n e r a te  c o d e  c h a n g e s  o n  th e    As  s u c h   m o d e l s  o r  c o d e  a r t i f a c t s  a r e  n o  lo n g e r  th r o w   e TM  b ri n g s  s y s t e m s  l e v e l  i n p u t s  i n t o  t h e  A W E S U M  t o o l  c h a i n   b y  a d d i n g  a  hi gh f i de l i t y  vi r t ua l  en v i r o n m en t  w i t h  o u t s i d e s t i m u l at i o n  f r o m  p h y s i cal  o r  s i m u l at ed  h ar d w ar e  e  ab le s  v ir tu a l ope r a t i on of  a i r c r a f t  de vi c e s  a nd pl a t f or m s  w i t hi n t he i r  c onc e pt  of  ope r a t i ons   w i t h r e a l tim e  f e e d b a c k  th r o u g h  m ilita r y  lin e  r e p la c e  u n it  L R U   eq u i p m en t  e g    m i l i t ar y  co m m u n i cat i o n s  B y  b a s in g  a ll m o d e le d  f a c to r s  o n  th e  ta r g e t in te r f a c e s   i  D    a p l at f o r m  co n cep t  o f  o p er at i o n s   S i m u l at e v al i d at es   ve r i f i e s  i nt e nde d ope r a t i ons  of  c ybe r  s be f or e  e xpe ns i ve   r e a l  fl i g h t g  oc c ur s   Wh i l e  w i d e  e x p e r i e n c e  w i t h  t h e  u s e  o f  s i m u l a t i o n  p r o d u c t s  u s e d  f o r  o b t a i n i n g  c e rt i f i c a t i o n  u n d e r D O O 331  r e m a i ns  unc l e a r   i t  i s  be l i e ve d t ha t  t he  a c c e pt a nc e  of  t he  us e  of  m ode l de r i ve d s i m ul a t i on r e s ul t s  f or  s pe c i f i c a t i ons  a nd de s i gn a c c e pt a nc e  wi l l  b e  a  f u n c t i o n  o f  t h e  f i d e l i t y  o f  t h e  m o d e l s  s    e  g    t h e  s y s t e m   i t s  o p e r a t i ng hos t  t a r ge t  ope r a t i ng s ys t e m   f l i ght  m ode l s   a nd en v i r o n m en t    e TM  br i ngs  t he s e  c om pone nt s  t oge t he r  t o r e pr e s e nt  a n a s bui l t  s ys t e m  a nd m ode l   a nd s i m ul a t e s  ope r a t i ona l  ch ar act er i s t i cs  o f  p l at f o r m s   d ev i ces  an d  t h ei r  i n t er act i o n s  w i t h  an  en v i r o n m en t   T h i s  ar ea o f  s t u d y   S A V I    Sy s t e m s  A r c h i t e c t u r e  Vi r t u a l  I n t e g r a t i o n   22   re m a i n s  t o  b e c o m e  a n  e x c i t i n g  d e v e l o p m e n t  i n  s y s t e m s  e n g i n e e ri n g   a s  t h e  o b j e c t i v e s  o f  S A V I b e c o m e  a    Qu a l i f y TM  a n i nt e gr a t e d s ys t e m  f or  pr oduc i ng a nd m a na gi ng a i r w o rt h i n e s s  l i f e c y c l e  d o c u m e n t a t i o n  C D R L s  a n d  D ID s  re q u i re d  t o  sa t i sf y  a l l  D O 178C  a ppl i c a nt  obj e c t i ve s   y TM  au t o m at i cal l y  g en er at es  an d  al l o w s  f o r  ar t i f act  en g i n eer i n g   TES  P a t e n t  ndi  of  t he  s of t w a r e  a s pe c t s  of  a i r bor ne  s ys t e m  on  re q u i re d  f o r a i rw o rt h i n e s s  q u a l i f i c a t i o n s  e f f o rt s  a p p l i c a b l e  t o  a i rw o rt h i n e s s  re g u l a t i o n s   A R  70 20  DO O 331 O nd th e  r e u s e  g u id e lin e s  o f  0 148  I n a ddi t i on y TM  is  d e s ig n e d     lif e c y c le d o c u m e n ta tio n r e qui r e d f or  F A C E TM  co n f o r m an ce an d  ve r i f i c a t i on e f f or t s     


    18  Gresh, E. M. Gurrola, D. P. Hinson, N. Kawashima E R Kursinski G S Levy G F Lindal J R Ly ons, E. a Marouf, P. a Rosen, R. a Simpson, and   Science 80   vol 246 no. 4936, pp. 1466 73, Dec. 1989 49  P   Gau l m e  F Sc h m id er   J   Ga y   T   Gu illo t an d  C     Astron Telesc Instrum vol. 531, no. A104, p. \\, 2011 50  P   H  Sch er r er   R   S B o g a r t R   I   B u s h   J   T   Hoeksema A G Kosovichev J Schou W Rosenberg, L. Springer, T. D. Tarbell, A. Title, C. J Wolfson I Zayer and The MIDI Engineering    Sol Phys  vol 162 pp. 129 188, 1995 51  F X  Sch m id er   J   Ga y   P   Gau l m e  C   J ac o b   L   Abe M Alvarez J A Belmonte E Fossat B Gelly T Guillot F Jeanneaux B Mosser and J   Astron Astrophys  vol 474 pp 1073 1080, 2007 52     53    Geophys Res Lett  vol 16 no. 6, pp. 591 594, 1989 54    Geophys Res Lett vol. 17, no. 10, pp. 1749 1752, 1990 55    2012 Onlin   Av ailab le  http://elvperf.ksc.nasa.gov/elvMap/staticPages/launc h_vehicle_info1.html 56  T   S C h an   J   G  W o o d   an d  J   G  Sch r eib er    ced Stirling  2007  57   Triton-KBO Study Final   58  K  M  Hu g h e s   J   W   Mo o r e  an d  J   M  L o n g u s k i  Neptune via Gravity Assists from Venus Earth  AAS/AIAA Astrodynamics Specialist Conference  2013 no AAS 13 805 59  E   D  Min er   R   R   W ess e n   an d  J   N  C u zz i   in Planetary Ring Systems  Springer Praxis Books 2007, pp. 95 104 60   rings 1983 1989 Ground-based stellar occultation  Icarus  vol 89 no 2 pp 220 243 1991  61  P   D  Nich o ls o n   I   Mo s q u eir a  an d  K  Ma tth e w s   1984  Icarus  vol 113 no 2 pp 295 330 1995  62   Technology Development at NASA Glenn Research   63  L   Mo n ta  Methodology of Hardware Simulators for  1637 Version 7 64   generation spacecraft command  data handling system based on the  In Proceedings of the 28th AIAA International Communications Satellite Systems Conference 2010, no. AIAA 2010 8888 65   Performance  In Proceedings of the 61st International Astronautical Congress  2010, no. IAC-10.C4.1.6 66    67  R   E   Yo u n g   M  A   S m it h   an d  C   K  So b ec k     Science 80   vol 272 pp 837 838, 1996 68  S J   C o n ar d   F A za d   J   D  B o ld t A   C h en g   K  A   Cooper, E. H. Darlington, M. P. Grey, J. R. Hayes P Hogue K E Kosakowski T Magee M F Morgan, E. Rossano, D. Sampath, C. Schlemm, and  Horizons Long-Ran  SPIE 2005, vol. 5906 69  R   E   Go ld   S C   So lo m o n   R   L   Mc n u t t A   G  Santo, J. B. Abshire, M. H. Acuna, R. S. Afzal, B. J Anderson, G. B. Andrews, P. D. Bedini, J. Cain, A F. Cheng, L. G. Evans, W. C. Feldman, R. B. Follas G. Gloeckler, J. O. Goldsten, S. E. Hawkins, N. R Izenberg S E Jaskulek E A Ketchum M R Lankton D A Lohr B H Mauk W E Mcclintock, S. L. Murchie, C. E. Schlemm II, D. E  MESSENGER missio   Planet Space Sci  vol 49 pp 1467 1479, 2001 70  H  a  W ea v er   W   C   Gib s o n   M  B   T a p ley   L   a    Space Sci Rev  vol 140, no. 1 4, pp. 75 91 Jun. 2008 71  D  L   Ha m p to n   J   W   B ae r   M  a  Hu is j en   C   C   Varner A Delamere D D Wellnitz M F   Space Sci. Rev vol. 117, no. 1 2, pp. 43 93, Mar 2005  72   Scientific Payload of the Space-Based and  Space Sci Rev vol. 70, pp. 7 12, 1994 73   Planet Sci. Decad. Surv 2010  


    19  B IOGRAPHIES  Farah Alibay  received her  Aerospace and Aerothermal Engineering from the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom in 2010 She is now a doctoral candidate in Space Systems Engineering in the departme nt of Aeronautics and Astronautics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Her primary research focuses on multi vehicle architectures for planetary exploration both in terms of surface and orbital assets She has recently worked on studies explorin g  multi mission and distributed options for the robotic exploration of Europa  and Mars Sample Return  Philip Fernandes  received his  the University of New Hampshire in 2008 He is now a doctoral candidate in Space Plasma Physics in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Dartmouth College His primary research focus is the aurora borealis at Earth More specifically he studies how the ionosphere couples to the magnetosphere to drive auroral currents He has been involve d in two NASA sounding rocket campaigns RENU Rocket Experiment for Neutral Upwelling and MICA Magnetosphere Ionosphere Coupling in the Alfv\351n resonator He has been involved in building the electrostatic analyzer particle instruments analyzing their data and is currently developing an instrument  their nominal energy range   Ryan McGranaghan  received his  engineering from the University of Tennessee in 2011. He is cu rrently a doctoral student in the Aerospace Engineering Sciences Department at the University of Colorado in Boulder He works in the Remote Sensing and Atmospheric Sciences Department studying magnetosphere ionosphere thermosphere interactions at Earth S pecifically Ryan models Earth's dynamic thermospheric state in order to more accurately predict drag forces on objects orbiting below 700 km  He is also a researcher with the Colorado Center for Astrodynamics Research studying satellite navigation He is working to develop and improve a new paradigm in autonomous navigation known as Linked Autonomous Interplanetary Satellite Orbit Navigation \(LIAISON\. Ryan is a National Science Foundation graduate research fellow    Jason Leonard  received his Bachelor s  degree in Aerospace Engineering from Embry Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach Florida and his Master s degree in Aerospace Engineering Sciences from the University of Colorado Boulder. He is currently a Ph.D candidate in Aerospace Engineer ing Sciences at the University of Colorado Boulder a NASA Space Technology Research Fellow and graduate research assistant at the Colorado Center for Astrodynamics Research His research is in autonomous spacecraft navigation and spacecraft reentry varia bility due atmospheric tidal density perturbations   


  20  B IO G R A P H Y  Ma c i e j  Z   P i n d e r a   St af f  Sc i e nt i s t  at  D y ns an r e c e i v e d hi s  P hD  i n Me c h a n i c a l  E n g i n e e r i n g  i n  1 9 8 6  fr o m  th e  U n iv e r s ity  o f C a lifo r n ia  Be r k e l e y   H e  h a s  d e v e l o p e d  h i g h  ac c ur ac y  c om put e r   co m p l ex i n co m p r es s i b l e a n d  co m p r es s i b l e f l o w s  i n cl u d i n g  co m b u s t i o n   l i n ea r  a n d  n o n l i n ea r  ac ous t i c s  and c av i t at i on  H e  i s  cu r r en t l y w o r ki n g  o n  h i g h  f i d el i t y r ed u ced  m o d el  fo r m u la tio n s fo r h y d r a u lic a p p lic a tio n s    Yu z h i  S u n   St af f  Sc i e nt i s t  at  D n  re c e i v e d  h e r P h D  i n  Me c h a n i c a l  E n g i n e e r i n g  i n  2004 f r om  M i c hi gan St at e  Un i v e r s i t y   M i c h i g a n   S h e  h a s  co n d u ct ed  r es ea r ch  o n  co m p u t a t i o n a l  m et h o d s  o n  di s c r e t e  s y s t e m s   he at  t r ans f e r   co m b u s t i o n   a n d  va r i o u s  gr i ddi ng s c he m e s  f or  t he  Na v i e r i ons  of  flu id  m e c h a n ic s  a n d  a e r o d y n a m ic s  S h e  h a s  b e e n  w o r k in g  o n  re d u c e d  m o d e l  f o rm u l a t i o n s f o r h y d ra u l i c  a p p l i c a t i o n s   an Jac qu e s  M al os s e    Sc i e nt i s t  at  D y ns an r e c e i v e d hi s  Ph  D   i n  Ph y s i c s  i n   Un i v e r s i t y  o f  P a r i s   F r a n c e   i n  1985  H e  has  e x t e ns i v e  exp er i en ce i n  s o l u t i o n s  o f  l a r g e sp a rse  si n g u l a r l i n e a r sy st e m s us e d i n l e as t  s quar e s  appr ox i m at i on of  s ur f ac e s   H e  has  r e c e nt l y  de v e l ope d ge ne r al  so l u t i o n  t e c h n i q u e s f o r v e c t o r se t s o f  st i f f  non lin e a r  o r d in a r y  d iffe r e n tia l e q u a tio n s  H e  is  cu r r en t l y w o r ki n g  o n  r ed u ced  m o d el  f o r m u l a t i o n s  f o r  hy dr aul i c  appl i c at i ons     St e v e n R   V o s e n  Sc i e nt i s t  at  Co m s c i s  re c e i v e d   1 9 7 8  a n d  P h   D   1 9 8 3  f r o m  th e  U n iv e r s ity  o f C a lifo r n ia  y  a n d  h is  M S   1 9 8 0   in  Ae r o n a u t i c s  f r o m  t h e  C a l i f o r n i a  In s t i t u t e  o f  T e c h n o l o g y    wo r k i n g  fo r  C o m s c is  h e  w a s  a  Pr i n c i p a l  Me m b e r  o f  t h e  Te c h n i c a l  S t a f f  a t  S a n d i a  La b o r a t o r i e s   w h e r e  h e  co n d u ct ed  r es ea r ch  i n t o  co m b u s t i o n   ch em i ca l  va p o r  de pos i t i on  and e ne r gy  r e l at e d f i e l ds      


Transformational GovernmentóCo-Chairs: J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack 2252 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, Miriam B. Lips, and Leif Skiftenes Flak Enacting Collaborative Electronic Government: Empirical Evidence and Lessons for Developing Countries 2253 J. Ramon Gil-Garcia, CÈsar Renteria, and Luis F. Luna-Reyes The Role of Social Actors in the Sustainability of E-Government Implementation and Use Experience from Indonesian Regencies 2263 Nurdin Nurdin, Rosemary Stockdale, and Helana Scheepers Unveiling Barriers and Enablers of Risk Management in Interoperability Efforts 2273 Pernille Monstad R¯berg, Leif Skiftenes Flak, and Per Myrseth Electric Energy Systems TrackóCo-Chairs: Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Introduction to Electric Energy Systems Track 2283 Thomas J. Overbye and Robert J. Thomas Economics, Markets, and PolicyóChair: Tim Mount Introduction to Economics, Markets and Policy Minitrack 2284 Tim Mount Cost Allocation in Ancillary Service Markets 2285 Tobias Haring and Gˆran Andersson Electrical Energy Storage Systems: Technologiesí State-of-the-Art, Techno-economic Benefits and Applications Analysis 2295 P. Medina, A.W. Bizuayehu, J.P.S. Catal„o, E.M.G. Rodrigues, and J. Contreras Electricity Restructuring, Consumer Prices and the Cost of Capital: Lessons for the Modeling of Future Policy 2305 Leonard S. Hyman and Richard E. Schuler Barriers to Increasing the Role of Demand Resources in Electricity Markets 2314 Alberto J. Lamadrid, Tim Mount, Wooyoung Jeon, and Hao Lu Investigation of Non-zero Duality Gap Solutions to a Semidefinite Relaxation of the Optimal Power Flow Problem 2325 Daniel K. Molzahn, Bernard C. Lesieutre, and Christopher L. DeMarco Measurement of Energy Market Inefficiencies in the Coordination of Natural Gas & Power 2335 Richard D. Tabors and Seabron Adamson Robust Optimization Based Economic Dispatch for Managing System Ramp Requirement 2344 Anupam A. Thatte, Xu Andy Sun, and Le Xie Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Uncertain Reserves from Demand Response 2353 Maria Vrakopoulou, Johanna L. Mathieu, and Gˆran Andersson The Effects of Residential Energy Efficiency on Electric Demand Response Programs 2363 Ward Jewell 
xxv 


Integrating Distributed and Renewable ResourcesóChair: Seth Blumsack Introduction to Integrating Distributed and Renewable Resources Minitrack 2373 Seth Blumsack, David P. Chassin, and J. Charles Smith Correcting Optimal Transmission Switching for AC Power Flows 2374 Clayton Barrows, Seth Blumsack, and Paul Hines Effects of PV on Conventional Generation 2380 Rajatha Bhat, Miroslav Begovic, Insu Kim, and John Crittenden Fast Regulation Service Provision via Aggregation of Thermostatically Controlled Loads 2388 Borhan M. Sanandaji, He Hao, and Kameshwar Poolla Self-Balancing Distributed Energy in Power Grids: An Architecture Based on Autonomic Computing 2398 Jennifer Perez, Jessica Diaz, Carlos Vidal, Daniel Rodriguez, and Diego Fern·ndez Storage Sizing and Placement through Operational and Uncertainty-Aware Simulations 2408 Krishnamurthy Dvijotham, Misha Chertkov, and Scott Backhaus The Impact of Variable Market Price on Optimal Control of Wind-Hydro Storage System in Kenya 2417 Maureen Murage, Judith B. Cardell, June Lukuyu, and C. Lindsay Anderson Variable Generation, Reserves, Flexibility and Policy Interactions 2426 James Ryan, Erik Ela, Damian Flynn, and Mark OíMalley Monitoring, Control, and ProtectionóChair: Joe Eto Introduction to the Monitoring, Control, and Protection Minitrack 2435 Joe Eto A Real-Time Scheme for Validation of an Auto-regressive Time Series Model for Power System Ambient Inter-area Mode Estimation 2436 Gurudatha K. Pai and John W. Pierre Automatic Generation Control and Its Implementation in Real Time 2444 Dimitra Apostolopoulou, Peter W. Sauer, and Alejandro D. DomÌnguez-Garcia Congestion Measures for Organized Markets in the U.S 2453 Emily Fisher and Joseph H. Eto Grid Modernization: Seamless Integration of Protection, Optimization and Control 2463 A.P. Sakis Meliopoulos, George J. Cokkinides, Renke Huang, and Paul Myrda Modal Energy Trending for Ringdown Analysis in Power Systems Using Synchrophasors 2475 Zaid Tashman and Vaithianathan ìManiî Venkatasubramanian Phasor Measurement Unit Placement for Identifying Power Line Outages in Wide-Area Transmission System Monitoring 2483 Hao Zhu and Yiyu Shi Reliable Implementation of Robust Adaptive Topology Control 2493 M. Kezunovic, T. Popovic, G. Gurrala, P. Dehghanian, A. Esmaeilian, and M. Tasdighi 
xxvi 


Security-Constrained MIP Formulation of Topology Control Using Loss-Adjusted Shift Factors 2503 Evgeniy A. Goldis, Michael C. Caramanis, C. Russ Philbrick, Aleksandr M. Rudkevich and Pablo A. Ruiz Resilient NetworksóChair: Jeff Dagle Introduction to Resilient Networks Minitrack 2510 Jeff Dagle GPU-Accelerated Solutions to Optimal Power Flow Problems 2511 Logan Rakai and William Rosehart Statistical Properties and Classification of N-2 Contingencies in Large Scale Power Grids 2517 P.A. Kaplunovich and K.S. Turitsyn The Impact of Size and Inhomogeneity on Power Transmission Network Complex System Dynamics 2527 B.A. Carreras, D.E. Newman, and I. Dobson Thread Group Multithreading: Accelerating the Computation of an Agent-Based Power System Modeling and Simulation ToolóC GridLAB-D 2536 Shuangshuang Jin and David P. Chassin Information Technology in Healthcare TrackóCo-Chairs: William G. Chismar and Tom Horan Introduction to the Information Technology in Healthcare Track 2546 William G. Chismar and Thomas A. Horan Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical InformaticsóCo-Chairs: Hesham Ali and Kate Dempsey Introduction to Data Analysis and Visualization in Biomedical Informatics Minitrack 2547 Hesham H. Ali and Kathryn M. Dempsey SNP-SNP Interaction Using Gauss Chaotic Map Particle Swarm Optimization to Detect Susceptibility to Breast Cancer 2548 Li-Yeh Chuang, Yu-Da Lin, Hsueh-Wei Chang, and Cheng-Hong Yang Application of a Hybrid Text Mining Approach to the Study of Suicidal Behavior in a Large Population 2555 Kenric W. Hammond and Ryan J. Laundry Learning Predictive Models from Integrated Healthcare Data: Extending Pattern-Based and Generative Models to Capture Temporal and Cross-Attribute Dependencies 2562 Rui Henriques and Cl·udia Antunes Global Health IT Strategies and ApplicationsóCo-Chairs: Joseph Tan, Sarah L. Patrick, and Michael Dohan Introduction to Global Health IT Strategies and Applications Minitrack 2570 Joseph Tan, Michael S. Dohan, and Sarah Patrick Medical Document Classification Based on MeSH 2571 Abdullah Muhammad Alghoson Mobile Personal Health Records: Research Agenda for Applications in Global Health 2576 Michael S. Dohan, Mohamed Abouzahra, and Joseph Tan 
xxvii 


HCI and Consumer Health InformaticsóCo-Chairs: Richard Burkhard, Ann Fruhling, and Soussan Djamasbi Introduction to HCI and Consumer Health Informatics Minitrack 2586 Ann Fruhling, Rich Burkhard, and Soussan Djamasbi Alignment of Concerns: A Design Rationale for Patient Participation in eHealth 2587 Tariq Andersen, J¯rgen Bansler, Finn Kensing, Jonas Moll, and Karen Dam Nielsen Determinants of Vertical and Horizontal Online Health Information Behavior 2597 Hye-Jin Paek and Thomas Hove Magic Mirror for Neurorehabilitation of People with Upper Limb Dysfunction Using Kinect 2607 Orlando Erazo, JosÈ A. Pino, Rosario Pino, Alfonso Asenjo, Carmen Fern·ndez, and Alfonso Asenjo Text Simplification Tools: Using Machine Learning to Discover Features that Identify Difficult Text 2616 David Kauchak, Obay Mouradi, Christopher Pentoney, and Gondy Leroy Towards a Cardiology/EHR Interaction Workflow Usability Evaluation Method 2626 Lisa A. Grabenbauer, Ann L. Fruhling, and John R. Windle Video Conference as a Tool to Enable Participation in Discharge PlanningóExperiences from Implementers about the Implementation Process 2636 Malin Hofflander, Lina Nilsson, Christel Borg, and Sara EriksÈn Incorporating an Evidence Base into mHealth Design and AnalysisóCo-Chairs: Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley Introduction to Evidence-Based Health Design and Analysis Minitrack 2644 Janet Brigham and Benjamin Schooley A Tailoring Algorithm to Optimize Behavior Change 2645 Janet Brigham, Harold S. Javitz, Ruth E. Krasnow, Lisa M. Jack, and Gary E. Swan Building an Evidence Base Using Qualitative Data for mHealth Development 2655 Beth Bock, Nancy Barnett, Rochelle Rosen, Kristen Walaska, Herpreet Thind, and Victoria Cobb Enabling Patient Information Handoff from Pre-hospital Transport Providers to Hospital Emergency Departments: Design-Science Approach to Field Testing 2665 Abdullah Murad, Benjamin Schooley, Thomas Horan, and Yousef Abed Mobile Medical Applications for Melanoma Risk Assessment: False Assurance or Valuable Tool 2675 Xavier Chadwick, Lois J. Loescher, Monika Janda, and H. Peter Soyer IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in HealthcareóCo-Chairs: Ton Spil, Cynthia LeRouge, Carla Wiggins, and Leigh Cellucci Introduction to IT Adoption, Diffusion, and Evaluation in Healthcare Minitrack 2685 Leigh Cellucci, Cynthia LeRouge, Ton Spil, and Carla Wiggins A Framework to Improve Coordinated Action toward the Adoption and Implementation of Health Information Exchanges 2686 John C. Pendergrass and C. Ranganathan 
xxviii 


A Review of Health Information Technology Implementation Success Factors: Importance of Regulation and Finance 2693 Thi Thanh Hai Nguyen, Kaija Saranto, Tommi Tapanainen, and Diana Ishmatova Adoption of Assistive Technologies for Aged Care: A Realist Review of Recent Studies 2706 Suchada Vichitvanichphong, Amir Talaei-Khoei, Donald Kerr, and Amir Hossein Ghapanchi Adoption of Electronic Health Record System: Multiple Theoretical Perspectives 2716 Qiwei Gan and Qing Cao Effects of Online Advertising Strategy on Attitude towards Healthcare Service 2725 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong EMR Adoption among Office Based Physicians and Practices: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Interactions, Peer Support and Online Forums 2733 Priya Nambisan Environment versus Partnering Experience: An Exploration of Chinese Healthcare IT Manager Attitudes toward Innovation of Services 2741 Dominic Thomas, Yurong Yao, and Xitong Guo Examining the Social Influence on Information Technology Sustained Use in a Community Health System: A Hierarchical Bayesian Learning Method Analysis 2751 Haijing Hao, Rema Padman, Baohong Sun, and Rahul Telang Exploring User Acceptance of a Text-Message Based Health Intervention 2759 Maya Corneille, Lemuria Carter, Naomi M. Hall-Byers, Trenette Clark, and Sinead Younge Factors Explaining Physiciansí Acceptance of Electronic Health Records 2768 Katharina Steininger, Barbara Stiglbauer, Bernd Baumgartner, and Bernhard Engleder Finding Value While Planning a Statewide Health Information Exchange 2778 Dana Edberg, Lynn OíMara, and Jeanne Wendel General Causality Orientations and the Adoption of Integrated Personal Health Records Systems: A Latent Class Analysis with Distal Outcomes 2788 Vahid Assadi and Khaled Hassanein Governance of Open Source Electronic Health Record Projects: A Successful Case of a Hybrid Model 2798 Placide Poba-Nzaou, Josianne Marsan, Guy ParÈ, and Louis Raymond Investigating the Influence of Psychological Ownership and Resistance on Usage Intention among Physicians 2808 Tim Smith, Gerald Grant, and Alejandro Ramirez Personal Health Records Success: Why Google Health Failed and What Does that Mean for Microsoft HealthVault 2818 Ton Spil and Richard Klein Recognizing Patient Safety Importance through Instrument Validation on Physicians Assessment of an EHR 2828 Cherie Noteboom, Kathryn Dempsey, and Ann Fruhling Telepathology Implementation Challenges and Benefits: A Scoping Review 2838 Julien Meyer and Guy Par 
xxix 


The Use of Health Information Technology in Ambulatory Surgery Centers 2848 Carla Wiggins and Teri S. Peterson Understanding Stakeholder Behavior in Nationwide Electronic Health Infrastructure Implementation 2857 Philipp Klˆcker IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare EnvironmentsóCo-Chairs: Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis and Patricia Oberndorf Introduction to IT Architectures and Applications in Healthcare Environments Minitrack 2867 Radmila Juric, Jasna Kuljis, and Patricia Oberndorf A Business Process Management Approach to Perioperative Supplies/Instrument Inventory and Workflow 2868 Jim Ryan, Carmen Lewis, Barbara Doster, and Sandra Daily A Guiding Framework for Ontology Reuse in the Biomedical Domain 2878 Tejal Shah, Fethi Rabhi, Pradeep Ray, and Kerry Taylor A Neuro-fuzzy Approach to Bad Debt Recovery in Healthcare 2888 Donghui Shi, Jozef Zurada, and Jian Guan A Pervasive Mobile Assistance System for Health and Fitness Scenarios 2898 Andreas Emrich, Alexandra Theobalt, Frederik Leonhardt, Sˆnke Knoch, Dirk Werth and Peter Loos A Smartphone-Based System for Population-Scale Anonymized Public Health Data Collection and Intervention 2908 Andrew Clarke and Robert Steele Analyzing and Modeling of Medical Data on Distributed Computing Infrastructures 2918 Gabor Terstyanszky, Tamas Kiss, Vladimir Korkhov, and Silvia D. Olabarriaga ASeCS: Assistive Self-Care Software Architectures for Delivering Service in Care Homes 2928 Reza Shojanoori, Radmila Juric, Mahi Lohi, and Gabor Terstyanszky Automating the Integration of Clinical Studies into Medical Ontologies 2938 Mark Roantree, Jim OíDonoghue, Noel OíKelly, Martin van Boxtel, and Sebastian Kˆhler Bridging Electronic Health Record Access to the Cloud 2948 Brian Coats and Subrata Acharya Decision Support in Evaluating the Impacts of Mental Disorders on Work Ability 2958 Juha Kemppinen, Jukka Korpela, Kalle Elfvengren, Timo Salmisaari, and Jussi Polkko Factors of Access Control Management in Electronic Healthcare: The Patientsí Perspective 2967 Thomas Trojer, Basel Katt, T¸lay ÷zata, Ruth Breu, Patrick Mangesius, and Thomas Schabetsberger 
xxx 


Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for HealthcareóCo-Chairs: Freimut Bodendorf Nilmini Wickramasinghe, and Carolin Durst Introduction to Sensing and Pervasive Technologies and Applications for Healthcare Minitrack 2977 Freimut Bodendorf, Carolin Durst, and Nilmini Wickramasinghe A Scalable Services Framework for Modeling Service Exchange Networks 2978 Hossein Seif Zadeh, Don Lowe, and Ivan Gavanovich Information Security and Privacy of Patient-Centered Health IT Services: What Needs to Be Done 2984 Tobias Dehling and Ali Sunyaev Tackling Complexity in E-health with Actor-Network Theory 2994 Indrit Troshani and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Using Self-Regulation Theory to Inform Technology-Based Behavior Change Interventions 3004 Amr Soror and Fred Davis Internet and the Digital Economy TrackóCo-Chairs: Dave King and Alan Dennis Introduction to Internet and Digital Economy Track 3013 David King and Alan Dennis Customer Engagement and Webflow User ExperienceóCo-Chairs: Petri Parvinen, Maurits Kaptein and Harri Oinas-Kukkoken Introduction to Customer Engagement and Webflow User Experience Minitrack 3014 Petri Parvinen, Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, and Maurits Kaptein Designing Flow Experience on the Web: A Grounded Theory of Online Shopping Flow 3015 Rolf Mahnke Does Gamification Work?óA Literature Review of Empirical Studies on Gamification 3025 Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa Exploring the Effects of Information Processing Perceptions on Consumersí Website Advice Continuance Intention 3035 Hui-Chih Wang and Her-Sen Doong Flow or No Flow? A Qualitative Study of Health Behavior Change Support System 3044 Pasi Karppinen, Tuomas Alah‰iv‰l‰, Terhi Jokelainen, Anna-Maria Ker‰nen, Tuire Salonurmi and Harri Oinas-Kukkonen Practical Findings from Applying Innovative Design Usability Evaluation Technologies for Mockups of Web Applications 3054 Luis Rivero, Marcos Kalinowski, and Tayana Conte Electronic MarketingóCo-Chairs: Bruce Weinberg, Ajit Kambil, and Arnold Kamis Introduction to Electronic Marketing Minitrack 3064 Bruce D. Weinberg, Arnold Kamis, and Ajit Kambil 
xxxi 


Customer Loyalty to C2C Online Shopping Platforms: An Exploration of the Role of Customer Engagement 3065 Christy M.K. Cheung, Xiabing Zheng, and Matthew K.O. Lee Digital and Social Media in Pro Sports: Analysis of the 2013 UEFA Top Four 3073 Marlen Jurisch, Helmut Krcmar, Hand J. Scholl, Kai Wang, Yuan Wang, Grant Woods Donghe Xu, and Yaxing Yao Effects of Attribute Framing Varying with the Elaboration in Online Shopping: An Eye-Tracking Approach 3083 Shu-Fei Yang and Hsin-Hui Lin Paid Search: Modeling Rank Dependent Behavior 3093 Chris K. Anderson and Ming Cheng Real-Time Adaptation of Influence Strategies in Online Selling 3100 Maurits Kaptein and Petri Parvinen Running and ChasingóThe Competition between Paid Search Marketing and Search Engine Optimization 3110 Kai Li, Mei Lin, Zhangxi Lin, and Bo Xing The Happiness Premium: The Impact of Emotion on Individualsí Willingness to Pay in Online Auctions 3120 Lingyao \(Ivy Understanding Competition Using Big Consumer Search Data 3129 Daniel M. Ringel and Bernd Skiera Why Arenít the Stars Aligned? An Analysis of Online Review Content and Star Ratings 3139 Susan M. Mudambi, David Schuff, and Zhewei Zhang Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy ResearchóCo-Chairs: Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston and Anthony Vance Introduction to Innovative Behavioral IS Security and Privacy Research Minitrack 3148 Merrill Warkentin, Allen C. Johnston, and Anthony Vance A Longitudinal Study of Information Privacy on Mobile Devices 3149 Mark J. Keith, Jeffry S. Babb, and Paul Benjamin Lowry A Longitudinal Study to Determine Non-technical Deterrence Effects of Severity and Communication of Internet Use Policy for Reducing Employee Internet Abuse 3159 Morgan Shepherd, Roberto Mejias, and Gary Klein Assessing Sunk Cost Effect on Employeesí Intentions to Violate Information Security Policies in Organizations 3169 Miranda Kajtazi, Burcu Bulgurcu, Hasan Cavusoglu, and Izak Benbasat Factors Affecting Perceptions of Privacy Breach among Smartphone Application Users 3178 Stanislav Mamonov and Raquel Benbunan-Fich Improving Compliance with Password Guidelines: How User Perceptions of Passwords and Security Threats Affect Compliance with Guidelines 3188 Florence Mwagwabi, Tanya McGill, and Michael Dixon 
xxxii 


Location Based Services and Information Privacy Concerns among Literate and Semi-literate Users 3198 Adrian Z.Y. Tan, Wen Yong Chua, and Klarissa T.T. Chang Rethinking the Information Security Risk Practices: A Critical Social Theory Perspective 3207 Devinder Thapa and Dan Harnesk Short-Time Non-work-related Computing and Creative Performance 3215 Jungwon Kuem and Mikko Siponen The Effect of Providing Visualizations in Privacy Policies on Trust in Data Privacy and Security 3224 Jˆrg Becker, Marcel Heddier, Ayten ÷ks¸z, and Ralf Knackstedt Why Individuals Commit Information Security Violations: Neural Correlates of Decision Processes and Self-Control 3234 Qing Hu, Robert West, Laura Smarandescu, and Zachary Yaple Innovation and the Digital EconomyóCo-Chairs: Christophe Vetterli and Walter Brenner Introduction to Innovation and the Digital Economy Minitrack 3244 Walter Brenner and Christophe Vetterli Innovate on PurposeóFactors Contributing to Innovation in IT Outsourcing 3245 Anna-Luise Boehm, Bjoern Michalik, Nikolaus Schmidt, and Dirk Basten Strategic Capabilities of Mass Customization Based E-Commerce: Construct Development and Empirical Test 3255 Frank Piller, Thorsten Harzer, Christoph Ihl, and Fabrizio Salvador Open Movements: FLOSS, Open Contents, Open Access and Open CommunitiesóCo-Chairs: Wolfgang Bein, Clinton Jeffery, and Vandana Singh Introduction to Open Movements Minitrack 3265 Wolfgang Bein and Clinton Jeffery Forge++: The Changing Landscape of FLOSS Development 3266 Megan Squire Itís Not Only about Writing Code: An Investigation of the Notion of Citizenship Behaviors in the Context of Free/Libre/Open Source Software Communities 3276 Kevin Daniel AndrÈ Carillo, Sid Huff, and Brenda Chawner Paid vs. Volunteer Work in Open Source 3286 Dirk Riehle, Philipp Riemer, Carsten Kolassa, and Michael Schmidt Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on SocietyóCo-Chairs: Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia and Fernando Beltr·n Introduction to Diffusions, Impacts, Adoption, and Use of ICTs on Society Minitrack 3296 Jyoti Choudrie, Sherah Kurnia, and Fernando Beltr·n An Application of UTAUT2 on Social Recommender Systems: Incorporating Social Information for Performance Expectancy 3297 Oliver Oechslein, Marvin Fleischmann, and Thomas Hess 
xxxiii 


Diffusion and Acceptance of Cloud Computing in SMEs: Towards a Valence Model of Relevant Factors 3307 Mark Stieninger and Dietmar Nedbal Information Technology Availability and Use in the United States: A Multivariate and Geospatial Analysis by State 3317 James B. Pick, Avijit Sarkar, and Jeremy Johnson Multi-casting in Mountainous Regions of Developing Countries: Analysis through ICT Institutions, and Capabilities Perspectives 3327 Julian M. Bass and Devinder Thapa Tactile Experiences: User Interpretations and Meaning with Tablets 3337 Efpraxia D. Zamani, George M. Giaglis, and Athanasia Pouloudi Triggering Intention to Use to Actual UseóEmpirical Evidence from Self-Service Checkout SCO 3347 Esko Penttinen, Tapani Rinta-Kahila, Mikko Rˆnkkˆ, and Timo Saarinen Knowledge Systems TrackóCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Murray Jennex Introduction to the Knowledge Systems Track 3356 Murray Jennex and David T. Croasdell Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of BeliefsóCo-Chairs: Dave Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Introduction to the Minitrack on Cultural/Indigenous Knowledge Impacts on Knowledge Systems, an Intersection of Beliefs 3357 David Croasdell and Nilmini Wickramasinghe Cultural Identity Restoration and Purposive Website Design: A Hermeneutic Study of the Chickasaw and Klamath Tribes 3358 Amber G. Young and Shaila M. Miranda Deaf Culture and Sign Language Writing SystemóA Database for a New Approach to Writing System Recognition Technology 3368 Cayley Guimar„es, Jeferson F. Guardezi, Luis Eduardo Oliveira, and Sueli Fernandes Indigenous Knowledge Sharing in Sarawak: A System-Level View and Its Implications for the Cultural Heritage Sector 3378 Rashidah Bolhassan, Jocelyn Cranefield, and Dan Dorner Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge SystemsóCo-Chairs: Stefan Smolnik and Timo K‰kˆl Introduction to Designing and Deploying Advanced Knowledge Systems Minitrack 3389 Stefan Smolnik and Timo K‰kˆl Conceptual Modeling for Mobile Maintenance: The ComVantage Case 3390 Robert Andrei Buchmann Formal Aspects of Enterprise Modeling Methods: A Comparison Framework 3400 Domenik Bork and Hans-Georg Fill 
xxxiv 


Quality Measures for Documentation of Best Practices 3410 Meshari M.S. Alwazae, Erik Perjons, and Harald Kjellin From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems ResearchóCo-Chairs Kevin Lee Elder, Alan Litchfield, and Andrew Urbaczewski Introduction to the Minitrack From Information Systems to Knowledge Systems: Issues in Knowledge and Systems Research 3420 Alan Litchfield and Andrew Urbaczewski Transforming Practice Using Theoretical Framing to Improve Organizational Processes 3421 Jordan Eschler, Shrikant Palkar, and Hazel Taylor Knowledge Management and SecurityóCo-Chairs: Alexandra Durcikova and Murray Jennex Introduction to Knowledge Management and Security Minitrack 3431 Alexandra Durcikova and Murray E. Jennex Designing Effective Knowledge Transfer Practices to Improve IS Security Awareness and Compliance 3432 Tonia Sannicolas-Rocca, Benjamin Schooley, and Janine L. Spears Genre-Based Assessment of Information and Knowledge Security Risks 3442 Ali Mohammad Padyab, Tero P‰iv‰rinta, and Dan Harnesk Integrating IS Security with Knowledge Management: Are We Doing Enough to Thwart the Persistent Threat 3452 Murray Jennex and Alexandra Durcikova Knowledge EconomicsóCo-Chairs: Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Introduction to Knowledge Economics Minitrack 3460 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki The Contours of Crowd Capability 3461 John Prpi and Prashant Shukla The Evolution of Knowledge Economics through the Course of Time: An Analysis of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 3471 Carsten Brockmann and Narcyz Roztocki Visualisation of Knowledge Mapping for Information Systems Evaluation: A Manufacturing Context 3478 Amir Sharif, Muhammad Mustafa Kamal, and Zahir Irani Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and ExchangeóCo-Chairs: K.D. Joshi, Mark Nissen and Lynne Cooper Introduction to Knowledge Flows: Knowledge Transfer, Sharing, and Exchange Minitrack 3488 K.D. Joshi, Mark E. Nissen, and Lynne Cooper A Social Capital Perspective to Understand Individual Contribution of Social Support in Healthcare Virtual Support Communities 3489 Kuang-Yuan Huang and Indushobha Chengalur-Smith 
xxxv 


Creation of Need Knowledge in Organizations: An Abductive Framework 3499 Alexander Kaiser, Birgit Fordinal, and Florian Kragulj Error Occurrence: Successful versus Unsuccessful Unlearning in Individuals 3509 Julee H. Hafner, Timothy J. Ellis, and William Hafner Individualsí Interaction with Organizational Knowledge under Innovative and Affective Team Climates: A Multilevel Approach to Knowledge Adoption and Transformation 3515 Jinyoung Min, Junyeong Lee, Sunghan Ryu, and Heeseok Lee Information Quality: The Importance of Context and Trade-Offs 3525 Anna L. McNab and D. Alan Ladd Sustainable Value and Generativity in the Ecological Metadata Language \(EML Toward New Knowledge and Investigations 3533 Ben Li Towards a Knowledge-Based Framework for Enterprise Content Management 3543 Thang Le Dinh, Tim A. Rickenberg, Hans-Georg Fill, and Michael H. Breitner Within-Team Variation of Shared Knowledge Structures: A Business Performance Study 3553 Ronald Freeze and Pamela Schmidt Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity ManagementóCo-Chairs: Suzanne Zyngier, Danny Samson, and Marianne Gloet Introduction to Knowledge Management for Innovation, Agility, and Complexity Management Minitrack 3563 Suzanne Zyngier, Marianne Gleot, and Danny Samson A Framework for Positioning and Assessing Innovation Capability from an Organizational Perspective 3564 Lilibeth RodrÌguez, Jessica DÌaz, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer PÈrez, and AgustÌn Yag¸e Managing Knowledge and Innovation for Performance 3574 Marianne Gloet and Danny Samson Organizational Ambidexterity Building via Strategic Learning and Business Learning 3584 Yan Mengling, Yu Yan, and Dong Xiaoying Things to Maintain or Change: The Importance of Critical Territory in Post-acquisition Integration Boundary Issues 3594 Dongcheol Heo and Heeseok Lee Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance MeasurementsóCo-Chairs: Murray Jennex Stefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Introduction to Knowledge Management Value, Success, and Performance Measurements Minitrack 3604 Murray E. Jennex, Stefan Smolnik, and David T. Croasdell Enhancing the Motivation, Opportunity, and Ability of Knowledge Workers to Participate in Knowledge Exchange 3605 Kelly J. Fadel and Alexandra Durcikova 
xxxvi 


Knowledge Management Success in Practice 3615 Murray E. Jennex, Sefan Smolnik, and David Croasdell Profile in Leadership: Adding Definition to Leadership as a Component of KMS Success 3625 Vincent Scovetta and Timothy J. Ellis Shedding Light on the Impact Dimension of Information Systems Success: A Synthesis of the Literature 3635 Andrea Herbst, Nils Urbach, and Jan vom Brocke The Relationship between  KM Strategies and IT Applications in SMEs 3645 Naief Azyabi, Julie Fisher, Kerry Tanner, and Shijia Gao Organizational Systems and Technology TrackóChair: Hugh Watson Introduction to Organizational Systems and Technology Track 3655 Hugh J. Watson Advances in Design Research for Information SystemsóCo-Chairs: Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer and Omar El Sawy Introduction to Advances in Design Research for Information Systems Minitrack 3656 Joseph Walls, George Widmeyer, and Omar El Sawy A Prototype for Information-Dense IT Project Risk Reporting: An Action Design Research Approach 3657 Martina Beer, Marco C. Meier, Benjamin Mosig, and Florian Probst Activity-Based Costing as a Design Science Artifact 3667 Philip Huysmans and Peter De Bruyn An Information System Design Product Theory for the Abstract Class of Integrated Requirements and Delivery Management Systems 3677 Yikun Lu and Timo K‰kˆl Introducing a Game Approach Towards IS Requirements Specification 3687 Mika Yasuoka, Kyoichi Kadoya, and Takashi Niwa Logic for Accumulation of Design Science Research Theory 3697 Jan Holmstrˆm, Tuure Tunanen, and Jouni Kauremaa Towards a Design Theory for Trustworthy Information Systems 3707 Leslie J. Waguespack, David J. Yates, and William T. Schiano Using Entropyís Justificatory Knowledge for a Business Process Design Theory 3717 Peter De Bruyn, Philip Huysmans, Gilles Oorts, Herwig Mannaert, and Jan Verelst Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big DataóCo-Chairs: Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Introduction to Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Big Data Minitrack 3727 Olivera Marjanovic, Thilini Ariyachandra, and Barbara Dinter Social Media Analytics and Business Value: A Theoretical Framework and Case Study 3728 Nargiza Bekmamedova and Graeme Shanks 
xxxvii 


Structuring Collaborative Business Intelligence: A Literature Review 3738 Jens Kaufmann and Peter Chamoni Think Big with Big Data: Identifying Suitable Big Data Strategies in Corporate Environments 3748 Katharina Ebner, Thilo B¸hnen, and Nils Urbach User Acceptance of Business Intelligence \(BI Social Influence, and Situational Constraints 3758 Tom E. Yoon, Biswadip Ghosh, and Bong-Keun Jeong Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and ChallengesóCo-Chairs: Frank Armour and Steve Kaisler Introduction to Business and Enterprise Architecture: Processes, Approaches, and Challenges Minitrack 3767 Frank Armour and Stephen Kaisler Business Process Modeling Language for Performance Evaluation 3768 Azeem Lodhi, Veit Kˆppen, Stefan Wind, Gunter Saake, and Klaus Turowski Dynamics of Cloud-Based Software as a Service in Small Communities of Complex Organizations 3778 Jenny Leonard Enterprise Architecture Practice and Organizational Agility: An Exploratory Study 3788 Terje Fallmyr and Bendik Bygstad EVOLIS Framework: A Method to Study Information Systems Evolution Records 3798 Alexandre MÈtrailler and Thibault Estier Green Business Process ManagementóA Definition and Research Framework 3808 Nicky Opitz, Henning Kr¸p, and Lutz M. Kolbe Optimizing the Performance of Automated Business Processes Executed on Virtualized Infrastructure 3818 Christian Janiesch, Ingo Weber, Jˆrn Kuhlenkamp, and Michael Menzel Toward a Decision Model for Master Data Application Architecture 3827 Ehsan Baghi, Simon Schlosser, Verena Ebner, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Toward a Functional Reference Model for Business Rules Management 3837 Simon Schlosser, Ehsan Baghi, Boris Otto, and Hubert Oesterle Visualizing and Measuring Enterprise Application Architecture: An Exploratory Telecom Case 3847 Robert Lagerstrˆm, Carliss Baldwin, Alan MacCormack, and Stephan Aier Business Process IntelligenceóCo-Chairs: Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar Introduction to Business Process Intelligence Minitrack 3857 Harry Jiannan Wang, Amit V. Deokar, and Surendra Sarnikar A Case Study on Analyzing Inter-organizational Business Processes from EDI Messages Using Physical Activity Mining 3858 Robert Engel and R.P. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose Challenges of Social Business Process Management 3868 Nicolas Pflanzl and Gottfried Vossen 
xxxviii 


Development of an Intelligent Maturity Model-Tool for Business Process Management 3878 Nico Krivograd, Peter Fettke, and Peter Loos Improving Structure: Logical Sequencing of Mined Process Models 3888 Michael Werner and Markus N¸ttgens Mining Knowledge Sharing Processes in Online Discussion Forums 3898 G. Alan Wang, Harry Jiannan Wang, Jiexun Li, and Weiguo Fan Digital Technologies and Organizational InnovationóCo-Chairs: Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen and Youngjin Yoo Introduction to Digital Technologies and Organizational Innovation Minitrack 3908 Nicholas Berente, Kalle Lyytinen, and Youngjin Yoo Architectural Characteristics of Digital Services Enabled by Embedded Technology: A Study on Remote Diagnostics Services 3909 Soumitra Chowdhury, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria ≈kesson Business Models of Developer Platforms in the Telecommunications IndustryóAn Explorative Case Study Analysis 3919 Hannes Kuebel, Felix Limbach, and Ruediger Zarnekow Computer Aided Business Model Design: Analysis of Key Features Adopted by Users 3929 Boris Fritscher and Yves Pigneur IT Capability Configurations for Innovation: An Empirical Study of Industrial SMEs 3939 Louis Raymond, Sylvestre Uwizeyemungu, Bruno Fabi, and JosÈe St-Pierre Structural and Behavioral Fit in Software Sourcing Alignment 3949 Marko Nˆhren, Armin Heinzl, and Thomas Kude Succeeding with Building Information Modeling: A Case Study of BIM Diffusion in a Healthcare Construction Project 3959 Christoph Merschbrock and Bj¯rn Erik Munkvold Emerging Issues Facing the Computing WorkforceóCo-Chairs: Cynthia Riemenschneider and Deborah J Armstrong Introduction to Emerging Issues Facing the Computing Workforce Minitrack 3969 Cynthia K. Riemenschneider and Deborah J. Armstrong IT Professionals and Their Psychological Contract in the IT Profession 3970 RenÈ Moquin and Cindy K. Riemenschneider The Role of Voice in Retention of IT Workers: Paving the Higher Road 3980 Andrea J. Hester, Jo Ellen Moore, and Susan E. Yager Toward an Understanding of Job Satisfaction on Agile Teams: Agile Development as Work Redesign 3993 John F. Tripp and Cynthia K. Riemenschneider What Do We Know about FLOSS Developersí Attraction, Retention, and Commitment? A Literature Review 4003 Andreas Schilling 
xxxix 


Why IS after All? An Explorative Analysis of Professionalsí Letters of Study Motivation 4013 Steffen Illig, Sven Laumer, Christian Maier, and Tim Weitzel Enterprise System Integration: Issues and AnswersóCo-Chairs: Marinos Themistocleous, Gail Corbitt and Paulo Rupino da Cunha Introduction to Enterprise System Integration: Issues and Answers Minitrack 4023 Gail Corbitt, Marinos Themistocleous, and Paulo Rupino Da Cunha Coping with Requirements UncertaintyóA Case Study of an Enterprise-Wide Record Management System 4024 Bjoern Michalik, Marcus Keutel, and Werner Mellis Strategic Alignment of Enterprise Systems and Business Strategies under Systems and Bivariate Approaches 4034 Nazim Taskin, Jacques Verville, and Tayfun Keskin The Impact Mechanism of Organizational Culture on ERP Assimilation: A Multi-case Study 4044 Yuanyuan Guo, Yuqiang Feng, and Chaoyou Wang Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and SocietyóCo-Chairs: Eric Clemons, Rob Kauffman, and Tom Weber Introduction to Information Economics, Competition, Regulation, Law, and Society Minitrack 4054 Eric K. Clemons, Robert J. Kauffman, and Thomas A. Weber How Can Substitution and Complementarity Effects Be Leveraged for Broadband Internet Services Strategy 4055 Gwangjae Jung, Youngsoo Kim, and Robert J. Kauffman How Should Carriage Disputes in Digital Media Be Addressed 4064 Frank MacCrory and Shivendu Shivendu Incentive Issues and Solution Mechanisms for Knowledge Transfer with Enterprise 2.0 Technologies: A Game-Theoretic Approach 4074 Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, and Andrew B. Whinston Investigations into Consumers Preferences Concerning Privacy: An Initial Step towards the Development of Modern and Consistent Privacy Protections around the Globe 4083 Eric K. Clemons, Josh Wilson, and Fujie Jin IT Investments and Firm Stock Market Value: The Mediating Role of Stock Analysts 4093 Xueming Luo, Bin Gu, and Cheng Zhang News Processing during Speculative Bubbles: Evidence from the Oil Market 4103 Stefan Feuerriegel, Max W. Lampe, and Dirk Neumann Product Versus Non-product Oriented Social Media Platforms: Online Consumer Opinion Composition and Evolution 4113 Jianxiong Huang, Waifong Boh, and Kim Huat Goh The Role of Disseminative Capacity in HIT Adoption: An Empirical Analysis 4123 Debabrata Dey, Atanu Lahiri, and Gang Peng Collaborative Housing and the Intermediation of Moral Hazard 4133 Thomas A. Weber 
xl 


Elimination by Aspects in Electronic CommerceóEvidence from Online Marketplace and Implications for Empirical Model Specification 4142 Mohan Wang, Bin Gu, and Qiang Ye Evaluating Electronic Market Designs: The Effects of Competitive Arousal and Social Facilitation on Electronic Group Buying 4148 Martin Yuecheng Yu, Karl R. Lang, and Alex Pelaez Information and Information Systems in Crisis ResponseóCo-Chairs: Dorothy E. Leidner, Anouck Adrot and Eric W.T. Ngai Introduction to Information and Information Systems in Crisis Response Minitrack 4158 Dorothy E. Leidner and Anouck Adrot Designing an Optimized Alert System Based on Geospatial Location Data 4159 Kimberly Zeitz, Randy Marchany, and Joseph Tront Semantic Representations of Actors and Resource Allocation through Reasoning in Humanitarian Crises 4169 Aladdin Shamoug, Radmila Juric, and Shamimabi Paurobally Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System DesignóCo-Chairs: Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Introduction to Information Issues in Supply Chain and in Service System Design Minitrack 4179 Abraham Seidmann, Yabing Jiang, and Jie Zhang Do Competitive Environments Have an Effect on Managerial Decision Making? An Empirical Investigation of the Newsvendor Problem 4180 Tong Wu and Abraham Seidmann From Bits to Atoms: 3D Printing in the Context of Supply Chain Strategies 4190 Henrik J. Nyman and Peter Sarlin Greening the Service Selection in Cloud Computing: The Case of Federated ERP Solutions 4200 Holger Schrˆdl and Paulina Simkin IT Outsourcing: An IS Perspective 4210 Stefan Bensch, Ralph-Josef Andris, Christian Gahm, and Axel Tuma Quantitative Case Study: Use of Pharmacy Patient Information Systems to Improve Operational Efficiency 4220 Gregory Dobson, David Tilson, Vera Tilson, and Curtis E. Haas Relational Capital and Performance: Assessing the Mediating Role of Supply Chain Agility and the Moderating Role of Environmental Contexts 4229 Zhao Cai, Hefu Liu, Qian Huang, Liang Liang, and Xiao-Liang Shen Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Patients: Saving Vision through IT 4239 Balaraman Rajan, Abraham Seidmann, and Rajeev Ramchandran 
xli 


Information Technology for DevelopmentóCo-Chairs: Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James Pick Introduction to Information Technology for Development Minitrack 4244 Mehruz Kamal, Sajda Qureshi, and James B. Pick Achieving Development Outcomes through Technology Interventions in a Nonprofit Organization 4245 Mehruz Kamal Aligning IT Capabilities with the Information Requirements of International SMEs: Information Processing Theory Revisited 4254 Vincent Dutot, FranÁois Bergeron, and Louis Raymond Steering Institutionalization through Institutional Work: The Case of an eProcurement System in Indonesian Local Government 4264 Fathul Wahid and Maung K. Sein IT and Project ManagementóCo-Chairs: Sue Newell, Jacky Swan, and Joseph Weiss Introduction to IT and Project Management Minitrack 4275 Joseph Weiss, Jacky Swan, and Sue Newell Explaining Emergence and Consequences of Specific Formal Controls in IS OutsourcingóA Process-View 4276 Thomas L. Huber, Thomas A. Fischer, Laurie Kirsch, and Jens Dibbern Exploring the Constituents of Benefits Management: Identifying Factors Necessary for the Successful Realization of Value of Information Technology 4286 Kunal Mohan, Frederik Ahlemann, and Jessica Braun Is a Challenged Project One of the Final Outcomes for an IT Project 4296 Umar A. Altahtooh and Margaret W. Emsley Reducing I.T. Project Management Failures: Early Empirical Results 4305 Gezinus J. Hidding and John M. Nicholas Rethinking Communication in IT Project Management 4315 Judy McKay, Peter Marshall, and Nick Grainger Risk Management in Video Game Development Projects 4325 Marc Schmlaz, Aimee Finn, and Hazel Taylor IT Governance and Its MechanismsóChair: Wim Van Grembergen Introduction to IT Governance and Its Mechanisms Minitrack 4335 Wim Van Grembergen A Nomological Network Analysis of Research on Information Security Management Systems 4336 Fernando Parra and Laura L. Hall Does Inclusion of CIO in Top Management Team Impact Firm Performance? Evidence from a Long-Term Event Analysis 4346 Qing Hu, Ali Alper Yayla, and Yu Lei 
xlii 


E-Business IT Governance Revisited: An Attempt towards Outlining a Novel Bi-directional Business/IT Alignment in COBIT5 4356 Yannick Bartens, Frederik Schulte, and Stefan Vo Evolvement of Business-IT Alignment over Time: A Situated Change Perspective 4366 Heinz-Theo Wagner IT Governance Effectiveness and Its Antecedents: An Empirical Examination in Brazilian Firms 4376 Guilherme Lerch Lunardi, Antonio Carlos G. MaÁada, and Jo„o Luiz Becker IT Governance Patterns in the Portuguese Financial Industry 4386 Ruben Pereira, Rafael Almeida, and Miguel Mira da Silva Middle Management and Information Systems Strategy: The Role of Awareness and Involvement 4396 Dorothy E. Leidner and Michael Milovich Jr On the Need for Evolvability Assessment in Value Management 4406 Kim Maes, Peter De Bruyn, Gilles Oorts, and Philip Huysmans On the Relevance of the Modularity Concept for Understanding Outsourcing Risk Factors 4416 Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Shazdada Benazeer, Alain De Beuckelaer, Steven De Haes and Jan Verelst The Board and CIO: The IT Alignment Challenge 4426 Jacques Coertze and Rossouw Von Solms The Influence of Culture on IT Governance: A Literature Review 4436 Parisa Aasi, Lazar Rusu, and Shengnan Han Towards an Application Life-Cycle Approach for Selective Outsourcing 4446 Saskia Zelt, Alexander Andreas Neff, Jochen Wulf, Falk Uebernickel, and Walter Brenner Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information TechnologyóCo-Chairs: Michael Knight, Dawn Medlin and Dragos Vieru Introduction to Organizational and Social Dynamics in Information Technology Minitrack 4456 Michael B. Knight and B. Dawn Medlin A Nexus Analysis of Participation in Building an Information Infrastructure for the ìFuture School 4457 Halkola Eija, Iivari Netta, Kinnula Marianne, Kuure Leena, and Molin-Juustila Tonja Accelerating Economic Inequality and the Moral Responsibilities of Corporate-Employed Technologists 4467 Alan E. Singer How Coaligned Stakeholder Support Enhances End User's Perceived ERP Performance? The Pivotal Role of ERP Identity 4474 Jeffrey C.F. Tai, Kai Wang, and Hsin-Lu Chang Managing the Achievement of Strategic Organizational Goals through Projects: Understanding the Role of Management Practices 4484 Kunal Mohan and Frederik Ahlemann When Too Much Usage is Too Much: Exploring the Process of IT Addiction 4494 Isaac Vaghefi and Liette Lapointe 
xliii 


Young People and Smart Phones: An Empirical Study on Information Security 4504 Balbir S. Barn, Ravinder Barn, and Jo-Pei Tan Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical SystemsóCo-Chairs: Sirkka Jarvenpaa and Holly Lanham Introduction to Tensions, Emergence, and Generative Mechanisms in Complex Sociotechnical Systems Minitrack 4515 Sirkka L. Jarvenpaa and Holly J. Lanham Digital Visions vs. Product Practices: Understanding Tensions in Incumbent Manufacturing Firms 4516 Asif Akram, Magnus Bergquist, and Maria ≈kesson How Did It Happen? A Memetic Theory of Interorganizational Information Systems Emergence and Evolution 4526 Thayanan Phuaphanthong and Tung Bui Learning at the Boundaries: An Action Agenda for Business Analysts 4536 Rajiv Vashist, Judith McKay, and Peter Marshall Reimagining the Higher Education Experience as a Socially-Enabled Complex Adaptive System 4546 Munir Mandviwalla and David Schuff Solving the Puzzle of Crowdfunding: Where Technology Affordances and Institutional Entrepreneurship Collide 4556 Claire Ingram, Robin Teigland, and Emmanuelle Vaast Theorizing Modes of Open Source Software Development 4568 A. Lindberg, Xuan Xiao, and Kalle Lyytinen Trust in Network OrganizationsóA Literature Review on Emergent and Evolving Behavior in Network Organizations 4578 Marcel Morisse, Bettina Horlach, Wiebke Kappenberg, Jurate Petrikina, Florian Robel and Florian Steffens Theories in IS ResearchóCo-Chairs: Scott Schneberger, Dirk Hovorka, and Kai Larsen Introduction to Theories in IS Research Minitrack 4588 Scott L. Schneberger, Dirk S. Hovorka, and Kai R. Larsen Applications of the Viable Systems Model in IS ResearchóA Comprehensive Overview and Analysis 4589 Janek Richter and Dirk Basten Crafting Theory to Satisfy the Requirements of Explanation 4599 Allen S. Lee, Robert \(Bob Do Ontological Guidelines Improve Understandability of Conceptual Models? A Meta-analysis of Empirical Work 4609 Arash Saghafi and Yair Wand Identifying IT User Mindsets: Acceptance, Resistance and Ambivalence 4619 Liette Lapointe and Anne Beaudry 
xliv 


The Intellectual Core of the IS Field: A Systematic Exploration of Theories in Our Top Journals 4629 Daniel S. Soper, Ofir Turel, and Nitza Geri Theory Identity: A Machine-Learning Approach 4639 Kai R. Larsen, Dirk Hovorka, Jevin West, James Birt, James R. Pfaff, Trevor W. Chambers Zebula R. Sampedro, Nick Zager, and Bruce Vanstone Topics in Organizational Systems and TechnologyóCo-Chairs: Mark Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Introduction to Topics in Organizational Systems and Technology Minitrack 4649 Mark N. Frolick, Kelly Rainer, and Jim Ryan Antecedents of IT OutsourcingóA Longitudinal Approach 4650 Ralph Pfaller, Marina Fiedler, Arnold Picot, and Anja Tuschke Does IT Reputation Matter? Role of Senior Executives 4660 Jee-Hae Lim, Theophanis C. Stratopoulos, and Tony Wirjanto One Country, Three Types of CIOs: The Emergence of Technology Executives in China 4670 Mark W.S. Chun, Kai Sung, Charla Griffy-Brown, and Harvey Koeppel Paving the Way to a Productive RFID System: A Novel Action Research Based Study from Fashion Retail 4680 Thomas Buckel and FrÈdÈric Thiesse Perceptual Differences and Conflict in Packaged Software Acquisition: Results from a Multi-perspective Framing Analysis 4690 Stefan Harnisch, Jasmin Kaiser, and Peter Buxmann Process-Driven Data Quality ManagementóAn Application of the Combined Conceptual Life Cycle Model 4700 Paul Glowalla, Patryk Balazy, Dirk Basten, and Ali Sunyaev Software Technology TrackóCo-Chairs: Gul Agha and Rick Kazman Introduction to Software Technology Track 4710 Rick Kazman and Gul Agha Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and ProductsóChair: Dan Greening Introduction to Agile and Lean Organizations: Management, Metrics, and Products Minitrack 4711 Daniel R. Greening State-of-the-Art: A Systematic Literature Review on Agile Information Systems Development 4712 Markus Hummel Teams That Finish Early Accelerate Faster: A Pattern Language for High Performing Scrum Teams 4722 Jeff Sutherland, Neil Harrison, and Joel Riddle The Influence of Organizational Factors on Inter-team Knowledge Sharing Effectiveness in Agile Environments 4729 Viviane Santos, Alfredo Goldman, Hernesto Filho, DÈbora Martins, and Mariela CortÈs Theme-Based Product Release Planning: An Analytical Approach 4739 Nishant Agarwal, Reza Karimpour, and Guenther Ruhe 
xlv 


Toward an Understanding of Preference for Agile Software Development Methods from a Personality Theory Perspective 4749 David Bishop and Amit Deokar Agile and Lean Software EngineeringóCo-Chairs: Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Introduction to Agile and Lean Software Engineering Minitrack 4759 Ashley Aitken and Jay Trimble Building Evolvable Software Using Normalized Systems Theory: A Case Study 4760 Gilles Oorts, Philip Huysmans, Peter De Bruyn, Herwig Mannaert, Jan Verelst, and Arco Oost Combining Lean Thinking and Agile Methods for Software Development: A Case Study of a Finnish Provider of Wireless Embedded Systems Detailed 4770 Pilar RodrÌguez, Jari Partanen, Pasi Kuvaja, and Markku Oivo Coordination in Large-Scale Agile Software Development: A Multiteam Systems Perspective 4780 Alexander Scheerer, Tobias Hildenbrand, and Thomas Kude Dual Application Model for Agile Software Engineering 4789 Ashley Aitken Exploring the Relationship between  Organizational Adoption Motives and the Tailoring of Agile Methods 4799 John F. Tripp and Deborah J. Armstrong Guiding Flexibility Investment in Agile Architecting 4807 Carlos Fern·ndez-S·nchez, Jessica DÌaz, Jennifer PÈrez, and Juan Garbajosa Towards the Model Driven Organization 4817 Tony Clark, Vinay Kulkarni, Balbir Barn, Robert France, Ulrich Frank, and Dan Turk Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and PracticeóCo-Chairs: Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Introduction to Digital Forensics: Education, Research, and Practice Minitrack 4827 Kara Nance and Matt Bishop Android Anti-forensics: Modifying CyanogenMod 4828 Karl-Johan Karlsson and William Bradley Glisson iOS Anti-forensics: How Can We Securely Conceal, Delete and Insert Data 4838 Christian DíOrazio, Aswami Ariffin, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Teaching Digital Forensics Techniques within Linux Environments 4848 Lucas McDaniel and Brian Hay Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software AssuranceóCo-Chairs: Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger and Richard George Introduction to Enlightened Cybersecurity and Software Assurance Minitrack 4857 Luanne Burns Goldrich, Richard Linger, and Richard George A Study of Ten Popular Android Mobile VoIP Applications: Are the Communications Encrypted 4858 Abdullah Azfar, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, and Lin Liu 
xlvi 


Evolving Secure Information Systems through Attack Simulation 4868 Elmar Kiesling, Andreas Ekelhart, Bernhard Grill, Christian Stummer, and Christine Strauss Patcher: An Online Service for Detecting, Viewing and Patching Web Application Vulnerabilities 4878 Fang Yu and Yi-Yang Tung REQcollect: Requirements Collection, Project Matching and Technology Transition 4887 Luanne Goldrich, Stephen Hamer, Martha McNeil, Thomas Longstaff, Robert Gatlin and Emmanuel Bello-Ogunu Signature Based Intrusion Detection for Zero-Day Attacks: \(Not 4895 Hannes Holm Towards a Holistic Understanding of Security Process: Formal Controls and Informal Relationships 4905 Max Soyref and Philip Seltsikas Utilizing Attack Graphs to Measure the Efficacy of Security Frameworks across Multiple Applications 4915 Francis J. Manning III and Frank J. Mitropoulos IS Education and TrainingóCo-Chairs: Dan Port and Gary Kessler Introduction to IS Education and Training Minitrack 4921 Daniel Port and Gary C. Kessler Un of MOOC-Like, Third-Party Online Courses 4922 James H. Melton, Robert E. Miller, and Anil Kumar A Proposed Curriculum in Cybersecurity Education Targeting Homeland Security Students 4932 Gary C. Kessler and James D. Ramsay Developing Faculty Expertise in Information Assurance through Case Studies and Hands-On Experiences 4938 Xiaohong Yuan, Kenneth Williams, Huiming Yu, Bei-Tseng Chu, Audrey Rorrer, Li Yang Kathy Winters, and Joseph Kizza Exploring the Feasibility of Conducting Software Training in a Peer Learning Context with the Aid of Student-Produced Screencasts 4946 Tai-Yin Chi, Lorne Olfman, and Frank Lin Investigating User Acceptance of a Screenshot-Based Interaction System in the Context of Advanced Computer Software Learning 4956 Travis K. Huang Learning and Law Enforcement: How Community-Based Teaching Facilitates Improved Information Systems 4966 Kaethe Bect, Scott Beamon, Edward Delp, and David Ebert Teaching Theories Underlying Agile Methods in a Systems Development Course 4970 Adarsh Kumar Kakar The Hidden Job Requirements for a Software Engineer 4979 Cristina Marinovici, Harold Kirkham, and Kevin Glass 
xlvii 


Secure Cloud ComputingóCo-Chairs: Bill Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin Introduction to Secure Cloud Computing Minitrack 4985 William J. Yeager and Jean-Henry Morin A Policy-Based Security Framework for Storage and Computation on Enterprise Data in the Cloud 4986 Sourya Joyee De and Asim K. Pal A Taxonomic Perspective on Certification Schemes: Development of a Taxonomy for Cloud Service Certification Criteria 4998 Stephan Schneider, Jens Lansing, Fangjian Gao, and Ali Sunyaev Analysis of Monolithic and Microkernel Architectures: Towards Secure Hypervisor Design 5008 Jordan Shropshire Cloud Computing Data ProtectionóA Literature Review and Analysis 5018 Florian Pfarr, Thomas Buckel, and Axel Winkelmann Securing KVM-Based Cloud Systems via Virtualization Introspection 5028 Sheng-Wei Lee and Fang Yu SLA Information Management through Dependency Digraphs: The Case of Cloud Data Services 5038 Katerina Stamou, Verena Kantere, Jean-Henry Morin, and Michael Georgiou Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and ManagementóCo-Chairs: Timo K‰kˆl‰ and Andrea Leitner Introduction to Software Product Lines: Engineering, Services, and Management Minitrack 5048 Timo K‰kˆl‰ and Andrea Leitner Analyzing Software Product Innovation Assessment by Using a Systematic Literature Review 5049 AgustÌn Yag¸e, Juan Garbajosa, Jennifer PÈrez, and Jessica DÌaz Which Factors Affect Software-as-a-Service Selection the Most? A Study from the Customerís and the Vendorís Perspective 5059 Ariana Polyviou, Nancy Pouloudi, and Stamatia Rizou Software Security for Mobile PlatformsóCo-Chairs: Daniel Plakosh and Robert Seacord Introduction to Software Security for Mobile Platforms Minitrack 5069 Daniel Plakosh and Rocbert Seacord Enhancing User Privacy on Android Mobile Devices via Permissions Removal 5070 Quang Do, Ben Martini, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo Malware Dynamic Recompilation 5080 SÈbastien Josse Pointer Ownership Model 5090 David Svoboda and Lutz Wrage 
xlviii 


Wireless NetworksóCo-Chairs: Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Introduction to Wireless Networks Minitrack 5100 Edoardo Biagioni, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala A Scalable Hidden-Markov Model Algorithm for Location-Based Services in WiMAX Networks 5101 John Roth, Murali Tummala, John McEachen, and James Scrofani Cell Range Expansion and Time Partitioning for Enhanced Inter-cell Interference Coordination in Heterogeneous Network 5109 Angmi Moon, Saransh Malik, Bora Kim, Hun Choi, Sooman Park, Cheolsung Kim, and Intae Hwang Novel MCS Based Relay Protocols for Throughput Optimization Using AMC in LTE-Advanced System 5114 Saransh Malik, Sangmi Moon, Bora Kim, Cheolhong Kim, Daejin Kim, and Intae Hwang Optimal Wireless Aerial Sensor Node Positioning for Randomly Deployed Planar Collaborative Beamforming 5122 Tan A. Ngo, Murali Tummala, and John C. McEachen The Possibility of Wireless Sensor Networks for Industrial Pipe Rack Safety Monitoring 5129 Jieun Jung and Byunghun Song Totally-Ordered, Reliable Multicast over Cognitive Radio Networks 5135 Matthew R. Tolson, Clark V. Dalton, Mark D. Silvius, Ethan S. Hennessey, Curtis C. Medve Jared J. Thompson, Kenneth M. Hopkinson, and Seif Azghandi Ubiquitous Interpersonal Communication over Ad-hoc Networks and the Internet 5144 Edoardo Biagioni Using Simulations to Study the Efficiency of Update Control Protocols 5154 Bernd Pfitzinger, Tommy Baumann, Dragan Macos, and Thomas Jest‰dt Vulnerability Analysis of LTE Location Services 5162 Mark Hofer, John McEachen, and Murali Tummala Author Index 5167 
xlvix 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


