 1   Abstract 227Most of available web filters especially parental controls work inline meaning that all outgoing and incoming packets are passed through a filter driver. This approach widely used in parental control applications because they mostly use blacklist, whitelist approach and defense of the applications to bypass the filter easily. Online content filtering along with its own benefits has a big flaw; filtering process affects data transfer throughput. Also this method suffers from being poor to analyze HTTP/HTTPS traffic like html reconstruction, HTML encoding object analysis, text classifying, image analysis, analyzing HTTPS. Online content filtering is not effective if network traffic is encrypted and cannot be decrypted by the online content filter or more generally, if the traffic is in a form that the online content filter cannot interpret correctly. One of the other disadvantages identified in this work was: packet filter doesn't analyze the contents of a packet; it decides whether to pass it based on the packets addressing information Accelerating content filtering by only examining Web content is major method used. This architecture proposed in this work use offline filtering and proxy as a synergistic approach. By this way filtering process and data transfer acts independently. This work presents a simple, but effective framework to accelerate the filtering process by examining only part of the Web content. The framework can make the filtering decision, either to block or to pass the Web content. The proposed framework can be used as a gateway, as an agent based content filter or a parental control framework  Index Terms 227Content Filtering, Parental Control, Software Filters, Internet Pornography  I  I NTRODUCTION  assive volume of Internet content is widely accessible nowadays. One can easily view improper content at will without access control. For example,an employee may watch stock information during office hours. Web filtering products can enforce the access control. The up-to-date products have widely adopted content analysis besides the URL-based approach [1 o n t en t an al ys is  w o rks  w ith t h e U R L bas e d approach to relieve the efforts of maintaining the URL list and  Ertu rul Akba is with Hakem Bili im stanbul, TR \(corresponding author to provide phone: 90-533-7220060; fax: 216-3900954; e-mail:eakbas gmail.com  to reduce the number of false negatives. The analysis classifies the Web content to a certain category first, and makes the filtering decision, either to block or to pass the content Despite the ongoing research on image and video content classification, text classification is typically the most efficient approach to Web content analysis. Many text classification algorithms have been around with high accuracy. They are often assumed to run off-line, so their execution time is rarely discussed. However, the efficiency of these algorithms is critical because slow content analysis in Web filtering incurs long user response time. The issues of accelerating the analysis should deserve attention This work presents a simple, but effective framework to accelerate the filtering from the observation that the filtering decision can be made parallel scanning the entire content, as soon as the URL can be classified into a certain category and content can be also be classified into a certain category by proxy. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II provides the architecture of this work. The synergistic approach is described in Section III. Section IV exhibits the accuracy and efficiency of this algorithm from the experimental results and discusses the deployment issues in a practical environment. Section V gives implementation details. Finally, Section VI concludes this work II  ARCHITECTURE The architecture introduced in this section enables high performance and highly accurate framework for content filtering. Next Generation Filtering framework consists of 2 parallel processing modules. The first one is offline streaming module, the second one is content analyzing proxy. The power of offline streaming module comes from 1. Early decision algorithm 2. Self defensive behavior of bypassing content filters especially proxy servers 3. Supporting proxy features on parental control products 4. URL filtering 1. URL filtering 2. HTTP protocol analyzing 3. HTTPS protocol analyzing 4. HTML reconstruction 5. HTML encoding NEXT GENERATION FILTERING: OFFLINE FILTERING ENHANCED PROXY ARCHITECTURE FOR WEB CONTENT FILTERING Dr. Ertu rul Akba  M 


L o w Fig. 1 Relationship between accuracy, resource and performance of comple x filtering analyses   2 6. Dynamic content filtering 7. Object analysis 8. Text classification 9. HTTP/HTTPS support 10 Pluggable Handlers/Filters.See Handler and Filter list 11 Remote administration with PAW GUI 12. XML Configuration files 13. Redirector 14 Import Filters/Handlers 15 Modify Request/Response Headers 16 Export of Handlers/Filters 17 Editing of Handler/Filter definition 18 Web page analysis Accuracy  200  File type 200  Textual 200  Links 200  Image 200  Profile  Next generation filtering is proxy based but uses a packet filter to preprocess the packet stream and improve processing performance and being prune to bypass attempts. Being prune to bypass attempts is especially important on parental control versions of content filtering because parents are not aware of their children are not using filters etc  III  NEXT  GENERATION  FRAMEWORK The philosophy behind the next generation filtering framework is to make the filtering decision parallel and fast as well as prune to bypassing proxy servers and bring proxy server capabilities to parental control solutions. Since offline network traffic analyzing and content filtering through proxy done in parallel this framework does not suffers from slow response time  Offline streaming steps  1. Capture packets 2. Distinguish IP packets 3. Look for a 'GET /' in the first four bytes of data.If not found continue with next captured packet 4. Look for a host ' in the payload of this packet.If found match over URL blacklist 5. Perform a boyer-m a t t e rn  m a t c h ov er dat a ag ai n s t  blacklist keywords.If not found continue with next captured packet 6. Send a TCP reset to server and a block page to client  This module can be used on the same machine with proxy or can be distributed to the agent if gateway based proxy used Parental control solution is a special case of agent based content filter   Proxy server Web content analyzing steps  1. Search on URL whitelist 2. Search on URL blacklist 3. Search content a. Search on links b. Text search c. Object analysis d. Web page analysis 4. Decoding web content including SSL based protocols  During content analyzing HTML reconstruction, HTML encoding and also HTTPS decoding also supported by the framework and implemented for test. Also if you want a complete content analyzing framework including multimedia content tunings is a must T h e relation s h i p bet w een  accuracy, resource and performance is shown in Figure 1.As can be seen, the higher the accuracy, the more resource is needed and the slower the performance By synergetic integration of offline stream analysis and Proxy server capabilities also increase accuracy and drops requirement for resources because resources are the critical part of content filtering commercial applications One of the main advantages of this architecture is being suitable for both gateway based and distributed architecture. If gateway based architecture preferred offline streaming module must be installed to each client parental control solution is a special configuration of single machine based next generation filtering architecture Next generation filtering engine can be operated in a two modes - coupled and decoupled - depending on whether the proxy server and offline streaming run on the same or different machines. The two modes provide a convenient method of controlling the tradeoff between flexibility and performance of the filter engine   H i g h   0 100 1 0 0      P e r f o r m a n c e R e s o u r c e 


 3 If we can list the requirement from the point of view of an end us  1. Hardware/Software compatibility: Will the filtering software be installed on each individual computer \(i.e.,client or on a central computer \(i.e.,server\ Does the filtering software require you to have additional software 2. Cost: Are there any ongoing fees associated with updating the blacklist? Are there separate installation fees 3. Ease of installation and maintenance: Does the company install the software for you? How frequently does it need to be updated, modified, etc.? How difficult is it to add/remove computers 4. Monitoring and reporting capabilities: What statistics are kept and how can they be accessed? Are there standard readymade reports that you need 5. Effectiveness of filtering technology: How frequently are blacklists/whitelists updated? Does the filter have the ability to dynamically classify a site, even when that site has not already been placed on a blacklist/whitelist 6. Configuration Options: Can different computers be configured differently? How many blocking categories e.g.,pornography, gambling, hate, web chat\ are offered ,and are they categories that correspond with the libraries policies 7. Error handling capabilities: How difficult is it to turn on or off the filter for a given computer? Can custom messages be displayed when a site is blocked? How difficult is it to add a site to or remove it from a whitelist or blacklist? Who can initiate such a procedure Since end user point of view also considers as much as resources and cost also Next generation filtering engine also offers a solution to fulfill end user requirements because this framework brings server capability also to parental control applications which means client solutions  IV  EXPERIMENTS Totally 4449 Web pages are randomly collected from the Google search o r t h e e x peri m e nt in f o u r t y picall y ba n n ed categories: Pornography, Game, Online-Shopping and Finance. Table 1 depicts blocking rates. 1,655 of them are clear  Table I: Next Generation Filtering Framework \(NGF Blocking Rates Game  Shopping P orn  F  Fi nance 89 95 100 87  Performance of a filtering system can be measured in terms of blocking rate which is the percentage of the correctly blocked Web pages, and over-blocking rate which is the percentage of legitimate pages that are blocked. The Netprotect project evaluated 50 commercially available filtering systems using 2,794 URLs with pornographic content and 1,655 URLs with normal content T h ei r  results reproduced in Table 2 show that the accuracy of existing systems is far from satisfactory. We have conducted the same tests with Netprotect with same number of adult URLs and same number of normal content. We added next generation filtering to this table additionally in order to be comparable Blocking rate  Over Blocking Rate   Another comparison has done by department of Informatic Networks, Turk Telekom. Turk Telekom is the biggest telecom operator in Turkey and also one of the biggest operators in the world. The results are also very satisfactory They compared next generation filtering framework \(NGF with Net Nany \(Formerly Content Watch\ and Aile Koruma ifresi. The results depicted in table 2       Table 2 . Comparison Results of Head of  IT at Turk Telekom   Net Nanny\(Formerly ContentWatch\F Ttnet Aile Koruma ifresi Online Games and Gambling 45 70 80 Guns and Violance 25 80 25 Fig. 2 Gateway Based Architecture   


 4 Proxy 95 95 95 Adult 95 100 95  V  IMPLEMENTATION We implemented the proposed Web filtering module in Java 1.6 and used jpcap [11 b ase d o f f l i n e f ilteri n g  m o d u le. P r o x y  module also developed using java W e col l ect ed W e b pages from googl d u s ed t h e m t o t e s t ou r f i l t eri ng system. The experimental results have been very encouraging VI  CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have described a content filtering framework that combines offline packet analysis and a special proxy engine. We compared our approaches with previous researchers and commercially available products and found the experimental results to be encouraging. We believe that the proposed approaches are useful for  1-Fast early decision 2-Accelerate Proxy 3-Brings proxy features to parental control application with being prune to bypass attempts 4-Offline decision support which means do not affect throughput 5-Deep HTTP/HTTPS analyze capability 6-Highly Distributed 7-Platform independent  Finally, advantage of the synergistic integration of packet filtering and advanced proxy engine is being prune to Circumvention A user may circumvent a filter in order to access the internet without restriction [15 Circu m v e n tio n o f  f ilteri n g  and/or blocking technologies is an important issu T h e  ease with which filters may be circumvented will depend on the technical knowledge of the user and possible methods of circumvention will vary according to the location in which the filter has been deployed This problem also addressed by Industry Canada report  and European Commission  R EFERENCES  1  Internet Filter Review 2005. Available at http://internetfilter-review.toptenreviews.com  2  How to Bypass Most Firewall Restrictions and Access the Internet Privately aka The Surf At Work. Available at http://www.buzzsurf.com/surfatwork  3  Bypassing a proxy server Available at http://lists.freebsd org/pipermail/freebsd-questions/2004March/040169.html  4  Internet content filtering A Report to DCITA,2003 5  E.G ustovi A. Khan and Y. Luu \223Proxy Servers PROBLEMS THEY SOLVE AND CAUSE\224, Hamdija 2002 6  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boyer%E2%80%93Moore_st ring_search_algorithm 7  Effectiveness of filtering technology , Available www.acma.gov.au/webwr/aba/newspubs/documents/filter effectiveness.pdf  8  www.google.com 9  Y.Chang, R.Han, C.Li, and R. John \223Secure Transcoding of Internet Content\224, Smith IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center,2007 10  NetProtect Project. Report on currently available cots filtering tools. Technical report, 2001 11  http://jpcap.sourceforge.net  12  www.java.sun.com  13  www.webjini.com.tr  14  www.webjini.com  15  Developments in Internet Filtering Technologies and Other Measures for Promoting Online Safety, First annual report to the Minister for Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy, February 2008 16  Content Filtering Technologies and Internet Service Providers: Enabling User Choice, available at http://strategis.i c.gc.ca/internet   17  European Commission \226 Info. Society Website, Available at http://www.ispo.cec.be/iap       


Sensor 3D Data SL p ol Selected polygobn a;;!!I Reference 3D model Match polygons  I Figure 3 Search space reduction by polygon matching Offline Processing In order to optimize the run-time part of the localization offline processing is required to generate a lookup reference database The database is composed of a fast lookup hash table that will be used to efficiently perform the polygon matching process Let M be a polygonal model of the object to localize and S a sparse set of 3D points si located on the model surface The offline processing first generates the set of all segments L\(si si that can be created on M from point pairs of S The set of segments is then arranged in a hash table that efficiently stores length and connectivity information to allow direct segment lookup with linear complexity while keeping the database compact Runtime Localization The runtime localization process uses the reference database created during the offline processing along with a sparse 3D point cloud obtained from a sensor to determine the position T and orientation R of the target model M with respect to the sensor focal point C The input point cloud I is composed of a set of n 3D points Pi defined with respect to C and that sample the surface of M The input point cloud is not expected to be organized in any specific pattern like a grid The point cloud can be sparse but should cover as much of the target as possible The first step of the algorithm is used to reduce the 6 dimensions pose search space The search space is reduced by keeping the set of poses that have at least some overlapping surface between I and M To perform this polygonal aspect graph matching is used First an N point polygon is selected from the input point cloud points Pi Selecting N is a tradeoff between processing time between each step of the localization process and can be adjusted depending on the object's geometry Typically 4 to 6 point polygons work well The points are selected to provide a polygon with a large surface area This will provide more pose determination momentum and fewer polygon matches Once a polygon is selected the set of possible poses is reduced to the poses where the polygon input scan points Pi]N line up with their corresponding model surface points Si]N within a specified tolerance Finding all the matching polygons is performed efficiently using the segment hash table generated offline Using this table the search becomes a partial tree traversal process The key to optimizing performance is to keep the reference model information sparse This will keep the number of matches small while providing a good enough pose estimate for an ICP to do the fine alignment For each polygon match a set of N matched points pi Si]N is obtained From each matched polygon pairs the corresponding relative pose T,R can be computed The points in each matched sets are assumed to represent the same physical point on the object surface within the defined tolerance Under this assumption the two sets of matched points can be related by a homogenous transformation i N R[si]N T Where T is the 3xl vector and R is the 3x3 rotation matrix representing the position and rotation of the target object with respect to the sensor focal point C The rotation matrix R and translation vector T are then found via a pseudo-inverse computation The pseudo-inverse can be calculated via singular value decomposition Once the set of pose candidates has been generated the algorithm tests them to assess how well the point cloud points Pi line up with the surface of M Figure 4 following a puzzle piece fitting strategy For each fit test the point cloud points Pi are transformed in the model reference frame using the rotation R and translation T calculated from the polygon matching process This surface alignment check has O\(n complexity where n is the number of points in the input point cloud The pose candidate that aligns the point cloud best with the surface is chosen as the solution It is also possible to increase the speed of the fit check by performing a pre-check step with a decimated dataset The efficiency of this process depends on the number of points in the input point cloud After the best fitting pose candidate has been determined it is possible to repeat the process with more polygons from the same input point cloud or to repeat the process from newly acquired point clouds over time Using either technique will increase the probability of success of the algorithm as well as increase robustness to outliers The approach to use can be selected depending on operational considerations such as relative motion rates and processing time  power available 5 


Fit candidate A Figure 4 Surface fit check performed on pose candidates 5 TEST RESULTS This section presents results obtained from the initial evaluation phase of the polygonal aspect hashing technique using 4 segment polygons The algorithm was tested using simulated and real sensor data of a half scale model of an International Space Station ISS Pressurized Mating Adapter PMA connected to a lateral port of an ISS Node Figure 5 This target was selected for the initial testing because of its realistic geometry and because a physical model was available for lab testing The algorithm offline process was run on the target object using a 100mm resolution which resulted in a 1.5MB reference database file Figure 5 Test object Simulated Data Testing Simulated data was used to initially characterize the algorithm performance Simulated data is very useful since large datasets with known true pose can be obtained and thus good statistics can be generated quickly A common problem with simulated data is the poor realism of the sensor noise model used Active sensors have biased noise and present distortions that are dependent on not only the sensor itself but also on the target being scanned These effects must be taken into account for the data to be representative of what would be obtained from a real sensor Neptec's sensor simulation framework uses a realistic active scanning sensor imaging model that takes into account the various parameters that affect a scan such as range noise laser source divergence and pointing resolution as well as the sensor's interactions with target surface shape and materials At each test sequence 220 different poses of the target object were evaluated For each pose 5 different 3D point clouds were generated from the target and tested independently for a total of 1100 localization tests per sequence The simulated sensor was configured to have noise characteristics that are representative of a typical 3D active sensor Table 1 Table 1 Main sensor simulation parameters used for testing Parameter Value Range Noise Standard 25mm Deviation Outlier probability 500 Outlier Standard Deviation 100mm Laser beam divergence lmRad Target materials Mix of diffuse and specular Note that the targeted flight sensor has better noise characteristics than what was simulated These settings were selected to provide a worst case scenario To determine if the approach developed can meet the objectives defined previously the success rate of the system was evaluated against three variables number of points spatial resolution and occlusion Success rate is defined as the number of pose estimates that match the true pose within a specified tolerance over the total number of attempts Since the objective of the localization process is to provide an initial estimate of the pose to an ICP process fine accuracy is not required The fine alignment process will be taken care of by the ICP The exact pose estimation accuracy required for the ICP process to minimize correctly varies greatly but for the purpose of this test the limit for successful localization has been set to 20cm and 10degrees Success Rate Vs Number of Points In order to be useful on orbit the approach developed must be able to operate with a sparse unorganized 3D point cloud This test evaluates the localization success rate with input point clouds containing from 100 to 900 unorganized 3D 6 


same time This effect is very important note since it was performed as input as the resolution decreases Secondly geometric distortions will appear Poygon 2 Plgons 5 Pigons 10o 20 400 ber of Points Figure 6 Success rate can artificially create geometric features by merging surfaces Figure 8 7  101 measurements Note that for a scanning sensor like the TriDAR acquiring such points clouds would require less than lOOms fast enough to allow real-time operations The acquisition time can be further reduced by using scan patterns such as Lissajous Rosettes or Spirals that do not require stopping the scanning mirrors Figure 6 presents the results obtained when using 1 2 and 5 polygons Results show that the algorithm works just as well with any number of points in the range tested Larger datasets do not provide a significant advantage This is consistent with conclusions from previous work on automatic target recognition and pose estimation from 3D data 3],[10 11 As would be expected using more polygons increases the success rate of the algorithm by reducing its sensitivity to outliers and edge distortions 45 40 igmna processing time ms vsMean number 2f points 1 Polygn _ 2 Polygons means that the laser spot will get larger means that surface geometry details will get washed out 5 Polygons_ 100 20 4 60 Mean N umer of Points Rate vs Mean Number of Points Figure 7 Processing number of points Time 3a of the algorithm vs Table 2 presents the mean pose error observed on all degrees of freedom for successful pose estimates As expected increasing the number of polygons improves the accuracy of the algorithm J2 1 source signal diverges This vs number of points Figure 7 presents the processing time of the algorithm as a function of the number of points in the input scan This test on a Pentium M 1.6GHz laptop Since the processing time of the algorithm varies greatly depending on the number of polygon matches found the 3G7 processing time is presented As expected the processing time of the algorithm increases with the number of polygons processed It is interesting to note that the processing time for very sparse scans can be slower This is due to the fact that very few long segments can be found by the polygon selection routine Short polygon segments tend to generate more matches and take longer to process It is also interesting to note that the processing time does not increase scans get denser This is due to on decimated data to quickly eliminate unlikely pose candidates during the polygon matching process Table 2 Simulation Mean pose error X Y Z RotX RotY RotZ Polygons mm mm mm deg deg deg 1 55.0 75.6 56.0 2.4 1.9 3.0 2 47.5 66.8 48.6 2.0 1.7 2.7 5 39.5 58.3 42.6 1.6 1.4 2.4 Success Rate Vs Spatial Resolution One very important characteristic of active 3D as range increases This has two direct consequences Firstly the effective spatial resolution of the on surface edges when the laser beam hits different surfaces at the sensor will decrease a surface pre-check process that internally operates sensors is that the as range increases This 


vs Laser Sp Success Rate Vs Occlusion During Lab Testing The algorithm Visibility Rtic El 2 4 40 60 so 100 same poses are reduced to occlude part of the target 8  Figure 10 Success rate vs occlusion 1 Polygon 2 Polygons 5 Polygons Figure 8 Edge distortions caused by diverging laser beam Sensor point of view left Top view right Figure 10 presents the results obtained for a fully visible target down to a 3000 visible target Very good robustness to occlusions has been obtained down to 400O visibility The main reason for the sudden drop in performance is due to the fact that the polygon selection algorithm could not find polygons that were large enough to meet its specified threshold The algorithm therefore aborted in most cases when more than 60 of the target was hidden The polygon selection process could be tuned differently to accommodate mission profiles that would result in more occlusion than tested here The limit is that sufficient nonambiguous geometry must be visible For this test the same simulated sensor characteristics were used but the simulated laser spot diameter was varied between 10 and 150mm Figure 9 shows the success rate obtained for 1,2 and 5 polygons as the spatial resolution of the simulated sensor drops The top X axis shows the corresponding range at which the spot diameter shown in the bottom X axis would be reached if the sensor has a lmRad divergence Note that most scanning sensors have a divergence that is less than lmRad but this provides a reference for the worst case scenario As would be expected using more polygons greatly reduces the effect of decreasing spatial resolution by increasing the robustness to edge distortions 60 Success Rate vs Laser Spot Diarmeter mr 1 cover more than the sensor's field of view The algorithm must be still capable of finding the target under these occluded conditions This test Spot Diameter mm Figure 9 Success Rate scans were acquired using different ot Diameter scan patterns Lissajous Rosette and Spiral Figure 12 The Laser scan extents uses the were selected to avoid lab clutter scan extents as this would have introduced outliers and violated the operational rendezvous and assumptions defined for this system docking operations the operating range of the vision system is very large Under these circumstances it is very likely that at closer range the target will was tested using a TriDAR sensor and was positioned at roughly 20m maximum range of the facility 1 Om and 4m away from the target object Note that at 4m less than half of the target object is visible The range selected is therefore representative of the final part of were tested For each viewpoint 3 different 1024 point as used for the previous tests except the Po0 on gr 21 Polygons 5 Pdlygoans 1 9 8 7 06 Taget a full size mockup of the target object used for simulation Figure 11 The TriDAR a docking mission where the target would go from fully visible long range to only partially visible short range At each range 10 different relative poses 


success was obtained by acquiring high resolution data from the TriDAR success rate obtained using TriDAR data Very good performance is observed success rate of the algorithm increases with the number of polygons tested As would be expected the processing time also scales with the number of polygons but is only slightly affected by the target range Note that the number of points was used for simulations Figure 13 presents the even when the target is only partially visible As observed in simulations the Success Rate with TriDAR Data mean pose mean pose same as what vs Range 3-sigma processing time ms vs Range m 1000 F Figure 12 Sample point clouds obtained using the selected  500 _ n a 400 300 200 100 0 _ 4 Figure 1 Range 6 8 10 12 Range m 1 Polygon 2 Polygons 5 Polygons 14 16 18 4 Processing Time 3a of the algorithm our purposes considering the relatively low accuracy required from the localization system The criteria for pose vs Range m 20 10 0 _ Figure 11 Target Object 4 6 8 10 12 Range m 1 Polygon 2 Polygons 5 Polygons 14 16 18 Figure 13 Success Rate with TriDAR data scan patterns side view Lissajous left Rosette middle Spiral right The true relative pose used for determining pose error and localization sensor at each position and calculating the pose using an ICP algorithm This technique provides an estimate of the ground truth that is close enough for success remained the on target remained fairly constant 900-1000 throughout all these tests Table 3 shows the absolute error observed during lab testing for successful localizations The pose accuracy does not significantly improve when using more polygons but it remains well within the desired range The error observed is also consistent with simulation results Table 2 900 800 700 E a 600 E vs Table 3 Lab Testing Mean Pose Error 9 100 90 80 70 0 60 t 50 n a 30 Polygon X Y Z RotX RotY RotZ s mm mm mm deg deg deg 1 50.3 41.8 30.5 1.6 1.4 2.8 2 41.3 45.7 28.9 1.52 1.4 2.8 5 40.8 47.2 30.3 1.4 1.3 3.1 


6 CONCLUSION Neptec has developed a vision system for autonomous onorbit rendezvous and docking that does not require the use of cooperative markers on the target spacecraft The system uses an active TriDAR 3D sensor and efficient model based tracking algorithms to provide 6 degree of freedom 6DOF relative pose information in real-time The system takes full advantage of the large amount of geometric information contained in 3D data sets By following the More Information Less Data MILD paradigm where the sensor only acquires the data necessary to obtain the pose of the target real-time performance can be achieve with flight hardware Following the same smart scanning strategy Neptec has developed a novel technique for localizing a known object on-orbit The new technique called Polygonal Aspect Hashing does not require an initial guess of the relative pose and therefore can be used to initialize tracking or recover if tracking is lost Furthermore it only requires a very sparse non organized 3D point cloud thus keeping the data acquisition and pre-processing overhead to a minimum The technique follows logic similar to the process of adding a piece in a jigsaw puzzle First the set of possible positions and orientations of the scan with respect to the model is reduced to the set of poses that have sufficient overlap Once the set of poses is reduced to the most likely candidates a surface fit check is performed to determine the best matching pose The surface fit check measures the amount of overlap between an input scan and the surface of a reference 3D model of the object to find The algorithm developed was tested with both simulated and TriDAR data Results showed excellent performance and demonstrated that the algorithm works well even with very sparse input data sets as well as in the presence of sensor noise and distortions Processing time results obtained showed that real-time performance can be achieved with this technique As would be expected it was shown that the robustness can be increased by testing more polygons at the expense of processing time Another alternative would be to run the algorithm with one polygon over several sequential scans This technique would be well suited for operations where there is relative motion between the sensor and target like in a tumbling satellite scenario or if the processing power is limited In the future Neptec plans to test more objects with representative geometry and materials to further characterize the algorithm performance The effect of object symmetries will also be investigated It was observed that most failures tend to occur where the object is most symmetric Code optimization will also be performed to further improve performance 1 MacLean S Pinkney L Machine Vision in Space Can Aeronaut Space J 39\(2 63-77 1993 2 Howard Richard T Bryan Thomas C DART AVGS flight results Proc SPIE Vol 6555 pp.65550L 2007 3 Ruel S English C Anctil M Church P 43DLASSO Real-time pose estimation from 3D data for autonomous satellite servicing Proc ISAIRAS 2005 Conference Munich Germany 5-8 September 2005 ESA SP-603 4 Ruel S English C Anctil M Daly J Smith C Zhu S Real-time 3D vision solution for on-orbit autonomous rendezvous and docking Proc SPIE Vol 6220 pp.622009 2006 5 Andrew Johnson and Martial Hebert Using spin images for efficient object recognition in cluttered 3-D scenes IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 21\(5 449 May 1999 6 H Wolfson I Rigoutsos Geometric Hashing An Overview IEEE Computational Science  Engineering 4\(4 October 1997 7 English C Zhu X Smith C Ruel S Christie I TriDAR A hybrid sensor for exploiting the complimentary nature of triangulation and LIDAR technologies Proc ISAIRAS 2005 Conference Munich Germany 5-8 September 2005 ESA SP-603 8 J Obermark G Creamer B Kelm W Wagner C Henshaw SUMO/FREND vision system for autonomous satellite grapple Proc SPIE Vol 6555 pp 65550Y 2007 9 Deslauriers A Showalter I Montpool A Taylor R Christie I Shuttle TPS inspection using triangulation scanning technology SPIE 2005 Orlando Florida April 2005 10 Ruel S English C Melo L Berube A Aikman D Deslauriers A Church P and Maheux J Field testing of a 3D Automatic Target Recognition and Pose Estimation Algorithm SPIE Defense  Security Symposium Orlando Florida April 12-16 2004 11 English C Ruel S Melo L Church P and Maheux J Development of a Practical 3D Automatic Target Recognition and Pose Estimation Algorithm SPIE Defense  Security Symposium Proceedings on Automatic Target Recognition XIV Orlando Florida April 2004 10 REFERENCES 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


