Towards a mission planning toolbox for the Airborne Network Optimizing ground coverage under connectivity constraints Abhishek Tiwari Anurag Ganguli Ashwin Sampath UtopiaCompression Corporation 1150 West Olympic Boulevard Suite 1020 Los Angeles CA 90064 Abstract The Airborne Network AN is a constellation of networked aircrafts flying in periodic orbits AN is an enabling technology for Network Centric Warfare for the military autonomous air traffic control for commercial aviation and for providing internet access over a broad urban area AN is a highly dynamic environment and presents challenges that have not been addressed in traditional wire-line or wireless MANET research Wireless 
links in AN are quasi-persistent and break due to platform banking and antenna shadowing In this paper the objective is to deploy airborne nodes so that they provide ground nodes with high data upload capacity while making sure that a minimal topology within the backbone airborne network is always maintained For the sake of simplicity of presentation we make a few assumptions on the trajectories of the airborne nodes We verify our assumptions against a well studied airborne network deployment scenario Using tools from convex optimization we determine optimal locations of airborne nodes for three different scenarios We present 
our results graphically and illustrate them using examples TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 INTRODUCTION  PRELIMINARIES  MISSION PLANNING  CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  REFERENCES  3 8 9 1 INTRODUCTION The United States Air Force envisions deployment of the Airborne Network AN by the year 2020 This will enable the Department of Defense DoD Global Information Grid GIG information exchanges via airborne platforms There is also a great deal of interest within the DoD to achieve interoperability between various DoD networks The AN 
with its potential to provide wide area ground coverage and comparatively lower latency than satellite communication SATCOM seems to be the ideal platform to achieve this interThis work was sponsored by the Department of 
Air Force under Contract  FA8750-07-C-0158 Opinions interpretations conclusions and reconmendations are those of the authors and are not necessarily endorsed by the United States Government Email addresses of authors abhishek anurag ashwin utoplacompresslon 
com 1-42441488 1/08/$25 00 2008 IEEE operability In the commercial sector the AN can potentially be used by wide area 
urban internet service providers Internetworked planes can enable sophisticated distributed conflict resolution for autonomous air traffic control applications For the airborne network to be used for the above application mission planning tools that take into consideration ground coverage and connectivity need to be developed To the best of our knowledge few researchers have addressed the problem of AN planning and deployment We discuss the relevant articles in the following paragraph In 1 the authors talk about communication planning for future deployment of the airborne network but there is no mention of how to plan the network if connectivity to 
ground nodes is also an issue In 2 a few alternative architectures for link management are presented In 3 the authors identify network parameters throughput latency etc availability of network airborne node collision safety and network security as fundamental issues in the design of the AN for commercial aviation In 4 the authors present a few deployment scenarios where heterogenous airborne nodes are placed at different elevations They also evaluate the performance of commercial off the shelf routing protocols in the airborne network scenario In 5 the authors look at the problem of 
deploying UAVs to provide connectivity to ground nodes However the inter-aircraft connectivity maintenance is not considered As against AN planning and deployment there has been a lot of research lately on applying and comparing existing Mobile Ad hoc Networks MANET routing protocols for different Airborne Network scenarios 6 7 and 8 In 6 the authors compare the performance of four MANET protocols AODV TORA OLSR OSPFv3-MANET The comparison is done on modified OPNET source code that reflects aircraft banking and antenna occlusion The metrics used for comparison are protocol overhead packet 
delivery ratio and packet delay For the scenario discussed in 6 it has been found that the proactive protocols OLSR and OSPFv3-MANET provided the best performance results with high packet delivery ratio and consistent low end-to-end delays In 7 Border Gateway Protocol BGP which is the defacto standard in use today to provide terrestrial inter-networking routing has been tried in airborne network domain Airborne network nodes predominantly employ line of sight LOS radio links which can range up to 200 nautical miles However LOS is unavailable when the aircrafts are turning due to shadowing caused I 


by platform banking Link outages caused as a result of antenna shadowing can last up to 30 minutes 9 Deploying thousands of nodes in the airborne backbone is prohibitive due to the cost reasons which implies that the number of backbone nodes will of the order of tens Long periods of link unavailability in such sparse backbone may result in a disconnected topology if the deployment of the airborne network is not done carefully Researchers in the area of routing for airborne network have cited the sparseness of the airborne network as a major hurdle 6 7 In order to overcome the topology sparseness problem there is an absolute necessity for a systematic formulation of planning and optimization for airborne network deployment under topology constraints To the best of our knowledge even though researchers have attempted to lay out the metrics for the airborne network deployment problem a rigorous analysis of optimizing the metrics is still missing In this paper we lay out a mathematical foundation to optimize airborne network deployment for three specific scenarios In each of the three scenarios the objective is to maximize the coverage provided to nodes on the ground which serve as sources and sinks of information A minimal set of communication links within the AN is used as a constraint so as to ensure a minimal level of connectivity The work presented here forms part of airborne network mission planning toolbox under development at UtopiaCompression Corporation Our team is also developing routing solutions for the airborne network but that work is beyond the scope of this paper In Section 2 we introduce the notation that we use in the paper along with some preliminary concepts In Section 3 we first introduce metrics to evaluate the quality of air-ground and air-air communication links respectively We then analyze three different airborne network deployment scenarios and optimize ground coverage under topology constraints using tools from convex optimization Finally we sum up our conclusions and present future research directions in Section 4 2 PRELIMINARIES In this section we introduce some preliminary notation and concepts that will be used throughout the course of the paper We begin with the notation Let R denote the set of real numbers We look at ground nodes i.e locations on the surface of the earth which serve as sources and sinks of information Let 1 QM G denote the locations of M ground nodes where 9i C R 2 for all i We look at a group of aircraft which act as nodes to relay the information between the ground nodes This group of relay nodes form the airborne network We make the following assumptions that are specific to the airborne network Al There are no multi-path effects Two nodes airborneairborne or airborne-ground can communicate with each other if there exists a direct line of sight between them and the Euclidean distance between them is less or equal to the radio range rradio This assumption makes sense for the airborne network scenario due to its operation in free space A2 As a first step mission planning for airborne network deployment is assumed to be done off-line at the Tactical Operations Center TOC The flight plans for the entire mission are then available to the routing equipment on each airborne node Under normal practice the pilots of the airborne nodes are given air tasking orders ATO before the mission that they are bound to follow as closely as possible A3 All airborne nodes fly in circular trajectories of same radius r at the same elevation z and there is zero tilt in their orbits with respect to the horizontal earth surface The airborne nodes fly at a constant speed s in their respective orbits Figure 1 from 1 illustrates a typical airborne network deployment scenario One can notice that the trajectories of different airborne nodes are circular and elongated elliptical In this paper for ease of presentation of concepts we have made the above stated assumptions Optimizing over a larger class of trajectories is an avenue of future research  M M P B N&de 1S  _ Node Node 16 17  Figure 1 scenario Illustration of an airborne network deployment A4 We assume the curvature of earth to be zero over the region of deployment of the airborne network As in 1 this assumption has been made to simplify the analysis but the tools presented are applicable in the most general case A5 For the purpose of optimization in this paper we assume that the banking of the aircraft while turning does not occlude the transmitter or the receiver located on the aircraft Taking banking into account while optimizing is another avenue of future research We let fA1 AN  be the locations of the N points in R 3 signifying the centers of the circular trajectories of the airborne nodes Since the airborne nodes are assumed to move at constant altitude the coordinates of the Ai's representing the altitude are the same for all i Now given a trajectory center A  Xa Ya z and a ground node 9 xg x  yg 0 let dA-g denote the distance between the projection of the center of the airborne node trajectory and the ground node 2 


Now the derivative of 0 with respect to dA g is given by dA  Xag Ya Yg 1 3 Similarly let dA,_ j denote the Euclidean distance between the trajectory centers of two airborne nodes i and j We assume that information can be transmitted over a communication link at B bits per second Assuming an airborne node flies at a fixed elevation z at any time instant it can communicate with any ground node located within a disc of radius Rgnd  zrradio-Z2 centered at the point on the ground vertically below the airborne node We refer to this disc as the ground footprint of an airborne node Please refer to Figure 2 for an illustration of the above notation 3 MISSION PLANNING In this section we discuss various scenarios involving the problem of optimal deployment of the airborne network to provide coverage to a set of given ground nodes In order to do this we first analyze how the average quality of a communication link varies with the distance between two nodes Communication link quality Air-ground communication link In this section we quantify the quality of an air-ground upload link using the maximum data upload capacity metric Let us consider a ground node Figure 2 Instantaneous coverage footprint of an airborne node flying in a circular trajectory at a constant elevation The effective capacity offered to node A is instantaneous wireless channel capacity averaged over one time period of the airborne node g and an airborne node moving along a circular trajectory centered at A as shown in Figure 2 It follows from the figure that the amount of time the ground node can communicate with the airborne node is 2r0/s where r is the radius of the loitering trajectory s is the speed of the airborne node and 0 is given by d2_  r2 Rg2 A~~gnd 0  arccos 2rdA-g 2 d A_9  Rgnd r2 Ar _ 5 2rdA-9 The above expression is non-positive for all values of dA g if Rgnd  r Under this condition the amount of time the air-ground link is active decreases with increasing values of dA g Also if the distance dA g is less than or equal to Rgnd r then there exists a air-ground link for all time On the contrary if dA g  Rgnd  r then the air-ground link never exists Let us now compute the average capacity of an air-ground communication link We assume that the ground node 9 in Figure 2 generates bits at a constant rate C bits per second and that it has a finite buffer The ground node can upload bits to the airborne node only when the air-ground link is active Therefore to prevent the finite ground node buffer from overflowing the number of bits generated by the ground nodes in one time period should be less than the number uploaded when the air-ground link is active This implies 2w7r 20Or C  B 4 s s Therefore the maximum data upload capacity of a ground node Cmax is given by B  From Equation 3 for Rgnd  r 0 is a decreasing function of dA g This in turn implies that Cmax is a decreasing function of dA g Thus the closer a trajectory center is to a ground node the higher is the maximum data upload capacity For the rest of this paper we assume that the condition Rgnd  r always holds Air-air communication link In this section we introduce a metric to quantify the quality of an air-air communication link which we term as the link activity percentage Let Ai Aj be the centers of the circular trajectories of two airborne nodes Let us assume that the two trajectories have the same radius r and the two aircraft have identical ground footprint Rgnd and speed s Let wij be the product of their angular velocities and let Oij be the relative phase The activity percentage of the link i j denoted by actij sgn\(wij Oij is defined as the fraction of the time period 2w7r/s during which the distance between the two aircraft is less than rradio Using the above definition we can also characterize the airair link quality that is dependent only on the distance between the centers of the loiter orbits of the aircrafts rsep and not on their angular velocities and relative phases This is the worstcase link activity percentage and is given by min actij sgn\(wij Oij 5 sgn\(wij Oijc[0,27 3 i.e 


Figure 3 Illustration of circular trajectories of two airborne nodes centered at Ai Aj The distance between two fixed points p and P2 increases with increase in dA Aj compare and dp,1P2 and dA A in the top and bottom figures The relation between the worst-case link activity percentage and rsep is characterized by the following lemma Lemma 3 1 min actij sgn\(ij  Oij  sgn wij c{f 1 1 Oijc O 2w Ground coverage optimization We now discuss various scenarios related to optimization of airborne trajectories for maximizing the ground coverage Scenario 1 Unspecified ground node locations Consider the situation where an airborne network comprising of N airborne nodes has to be deployed to provide coverage to ground nodes that are distributed uniformly over a region D C R2 Let T  V 8 be a connected topology where V is the set of airborne nodes and S represent communication links between airborne nodes For a given deployment scenario S is the minimal set of airborne links that must have a desired worst-case link activity percentage for the entire duration of the deployment of the airborne network Since there is no explicit information on the locations of the ground nodes in this scenario we wish to spread out the airborne nodes over the region D One approach to achieve this is to maximize the variance of the inter-aircraft distances The corresponding following optimization problem is as follows maximize{f1,A 2Z Al2  Al I E dAi Aj ij 6 subject to Ai rASep Vij C S Ai c D A=D 7 8 9 is a decreasing function of d4_ J Proof From Equation 5 the lemma is true if actij sgn\(ij  Oij is a decreasing function of dAi j for any given sgn\(wij and ij This follows directly from the observation that if we fix the location of two points P1 P2 on the two trajectories then the distance between them increases strictly as dA j increases see Figure 3 U The above lemma implies that by choosing a certain value of rsep one can guarantee a certain link quality irrespective of the choice of the relative phases It has been observed in earlier research 6 that the relative phases of the airborne nodes have a significant effect on air-air link quality and thus on routing protocol performance In what follows we will use constraints of the form dA Aj _ rsep to guarantee air-air link quality Notice that the worst-case link activity percentage is also representative of the maximum delay that an incoming packet may experience at any node Intuitively speaking the amount of time that a packet may have to wait before being transmitted depends on the time for which the link is inactive We believe that this measure can be useful in designing networks for delay-tolerant applications Also for a given network quantities such as the buffer size required at any node can be computed using the same measure where Ai's are the locations of the centers of trajectories of airborne nodes A is the centroid of the trajectory centers and D is the centroid of the region D Note eqn 7 constrains the centers of trajectories of airborne nodes so that the air-air communication link has a worst-case link activity percentage corresponding to rsep Remrark 3.2 If the airborne nodes fly in phase and rsep  rradio then eqn 7 guarantees persistent communication link between airborne nodes at all times Under the constraint that topology IT is connected the objective function in Equation 6 is always bounded Also note that the objective function and the constraints are convex but since this is a maximization problem the solution will lie on the boundary of constraint set There are no guaranteed methods to maximize a convex function under convex constraints A problem similar to 6 has been solved in 10 using semidefinite programming for maximum variance unfolding We adopt a similar approach as described in the following We change the optimization variables to the elements of Gram matrix 11 associated with the vectors A1,A2  AN The corresponding Gram matrix is given by AC A A where A A1lA2  AN 10 4 


so that Cij  A[TAj Therefore we can write dA Cii  jj-2/ij 11 Without loss of generality we can assume that the centroid of the domain D is at the origin Under this assumption constraint 9 becomes N 1 Ai  0 where 0 is the column vector of zeros In terms of the Gram matrix the constraint becomes Ei j Zij  0 as shown in 10 Also the objective function Eij dAiAj turns out to be the sum of eigenvalues of the Gram matrix IC which is defined to be the trace of the matrix denoted by Tr\(IC Problem 6 can now be posed as a semi-definite program SDP 11 as follows maximize Tr\(IC 12 subject to Cii  Cjj2/Cij rSep Vij C S  C  0 i,j 13 14 15 where the optimization variables are the elements of IC Constraint 15 implies that IC is a positive semi-definite matrix as it is an inner-product matrix We have used YALMIP 12 to solve the above semi-definite program Note that the transformation from points in Euclidean space to elements of Gram matrix preserves the inter-node distances and angles but dimensionality information is lost In other words the information that Ai eR 2is not preserved Now we describe a technique to convert the optimal Gram matrix solution to N vectors in R2 If the optimal solution lies in a higher dimension this technique will only give the projections of the optimal vectors on R2 Let Co,pt denote the optimal solution to 12 know that Copt is a real Hermitian matrix therefore by the spectral theorem for Hermitian matrices 13 we know that there exists a real orthogonal matrix F and a real diagonal matrix A such that opt  FAFT 16 The diagonal entries of A are the eigenvalues of kCopt Now since opt is positive semi-definite one can compute A Also let A be such that the eigenvalues are arranged in ascending order with A\(N N being the largest We now rewrite equation 16 as The operation of choosing the last two entries of every column of B is essentially taking the projection of the solution obtained by solving the SDP onto R 2 There is a certain class T of the topology graphs 7 for which the first N 2 entries of all the columns of B turn out to be zero This means that the N solution point gotten by solving the SDP in equation 12 lie on the same plane A simple cycle and a tree are trivial members of the class T but from the example below it is evident that the class T of topology graphs includes more kinds of graphs Example 1 Imagine we have to spread out 5 airborne nodes over R 2 Let the topology T be given by the following topology adjacency matrix 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 O 1 0 1 0 O 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 0i 13 18 With rsep  200 nautical miles we first solve the SDP in equation 12 and then compute vectors in R 5 columns of B It turns out that for the given topology all these lie on the same plane The solution in shown in Figure 4\(a Note that the links in the given topology 18 are stretched to the value rSep Also if the input is a ring topology the optimal locations are again in R 2 with the locations as shown in Figure 4\(b Complete characterization of the class T is an avenue of future work 200 150 ___---2 3 200 200 50 200 S2pO 100 2 150 t 20 3 4 a topology in example I 150 100 50 0 50 100 150 X loction b ring topology Figure 4 Spreading out airborne nodes under different topology constraints Circles represent the optimal locations of the airborne trajectory centers The line segments between trajectory centers represent the links corresponding to the input topology 7 The numeric values alongside the line segments represent the distances between the corresponding aircraft centers opt  BBT 17 where the columns of B  FA are N vectors in RN whose Gram matrix is opt In order to get N vectors in R 2 we choose the last two entries of each column vector Scenario 2 Fair coverage of multiple ground nodes using one airborne node Let Q1 92   gM be the locations of the ground nodes Let us now solve the problem of placing a single airborne node A to provide fair coverage to all ground nodes In other words we would like to solve the following 5 3 150 100 100 200 50 Q00o c 50 P 0I 200 2 50 200 100 I/A 150 


optimization problem maximizeA min~a 9 iC{1,2...M max 19 where Cmax is the maximum data upload capacity offered to the ith ground node Now consider a different optimization problem minimizeA max dAsg 20 ief 1,2 MI Note that 20 is a convex optimization problem We will now prove that the optimal airborne node location for 20 is the optimal one for 19 Lemmna 3.3 Let A be the optimal airborne node location for problem 20 then it is also the optimal airborne node location for problem 19 Proof Let Cmax f d g Since f  is a monotonically decreasing function therefore we have iem 1,2 Ml CMax\(A 21 for all values of A Also from optimality of A for problem 20 max dA_ g max dA4_gs iC{1,2 in the optimization problem Incorporating the relative phase in the optimization is another avenue of future research 6 f max d,4-g ic 1,2  MI M iC{1,2 M Example 2 Consider 4 ground nodes located at g1  160,375 92  260,360 93  560,525 and 94  580 280 The values are in nautical miles The first three ground nodes are locations of nodes 16 17 and 18 in the generic airborne network scenario discussed in 1 and shown in figure 1 We have added a forth dummy ground node to illustrate the concept Node 92 lies inside the triangle formed by nodes 9i 93 and 94 therefore upon solving problem 20 the optimal airborne node location turns out to be the circumcenter of the triangle formed by the nodes gj 93 and 94 If we change the dummy node to 94  360 500 then the optimal airborne location turns out to be the midpoint of the line between g and 93 Thus the optimal solution of problem 20 is the center of the minimum circle that inscribes all ground nodes In the following section we look at the scenario where we have multiple airborne nodes Scenario 3 Fair coverage of multiple ground nodes using multiple airborne nodes In this section we solve the problem of providing fair coverage to multiple ground nodes using multiple airborne nodes Formally the optimization problem can be stated as follows maximize{f1,...,Ai minm C max 26 subject to 22 dA,-Aj K rsep for all i j C S 27 Again from monotonicity of f  f max dM}d Ag5  fi,max d>*-gi 23 Substituting eqn 21 in the equation above we get min Cax A minM Cax  24 ief{1,2  MI a ief{1,2 m axA This implies that the airborne node location A attain the optimal in problem 19 v As already mentioned problem 20 is a convex optimization problem Note that if maxdgsigj  2\(Rgnd r i,j As before here S is the minimal set of communication links that we desire in the airborne network and Cmax is the maximum upload capacity at node i due to one or more airborne nodes It is understood that if at any given time instant a ground node is covered by more than one airborne node then the instantaneous maximum upload capacity is the same as that offered by any one airborne node The term Cmax depends not only on the points  Al  AN but also on the relative phases between the aircrafts One way to remove the dependence on the relative phase is to pose the following relaxed problem maximize{1 AN  minM max Cmax 28 subject to 25 dA j K rsep for all i j C S 29 then the solution to problem 19 is always zero for all values of the airborne node location This is because the farthest an airborne node can provide a non-zero Cmax is Rgnd  r thus one of the ground nodes is bound to be left out If the maximum is less than 2\(Rgnd  r then the solution A turns out to be the center of the minimum radius circle that encloses all the ground nodes This is illustrated in Example 2 Here CtJax is the maximum upload capacity at node i due to airborne node j The maximization problem in Equation 28 is analogous to the maximization problem in Equation 19 where maxje{1 N Cmiax and  Al   AN in the former problem correspond to Ci ax and A in the latter respectively 1Throughout this paper we assume that the relative phases between the aircrafts is not a design variable 


1  Ml Vj Therefore from Lemma 3.3 we know that the previous problem is equivalent to the following minimize{f A,...,AI max min dA3 gM 30 iC{f1,...,M jef{1,...,N subject to dAi Aj _ rsep for all i,j S E 31 This problem is equivalent to the continuous p-center problem 14 but with the connectivity constraints between the centers We make following observation regarding the complexity of the problem Notice that the problem in Equation 32 is the continuous pcenter problem which is NP hard We therefore look at the following two cases separately 1 Number of airborne nodes greater than or equal to the number of ground nodes In this case the solution to the first problem is obtained trivially by assigning M airborne nodes to the M ground node locations The locations of the remaining N M airborne nodes are unconstrained Next we solve the following convex problem minimize{1,,...,iA max d4 g  35 Proposition 3.4 The optimization problem described in Equations 30 and 31 is NP hard Proof Let M  N Let AiPt be the optimal location of the center of the ith trajectory for the unconstrained problem Also let Si be the set of ground nodes that have A Pt as the nearest trajectory center where i C  1 N Then Ai\260Pt must lie at the circumcenter of the points in Si But the cicumcenter of the points in Si belongs to the convex hull of Si Also since Si C  1 gM the convex hull of Si is a subset of the convex hull of 1 GM Thus A4opt A o pt is a subset of the convex hull of Q  Q g The NP hardness of the constrained problem therefore follows from the observation that with rsep  diameter{f 1 QM  the problem reduces to the unconstrained problem which in turn is the standard continuous pcenter problem which is known to be NP hard 14 U Since the problem is NP hard we now present a heuristic to solve the above problem The heuristic consists of two stages In the first stage we solve the following unconstrained optimization problem minimize{f1,A A max min dA3 gM 32 ATiC 1,...,M jC{f1,...,N Let A  A be the optimal locations of the airborne nodes obtained after solving the above problem In the second stage we solve the following problem minimize A  max dA O Vi Ei,j kij  1 43 Equation 38 describes the constraints in Equation 36 Equation 39 specifies the distances between all pairs of ground nodes Since the ground node locations are known so are the distances Note that for i C 1  M the left hand side of Equation 40 is dA ig,i Intuitively speaking by minimizing the variable t we are minimizing the upper bound on dA g which is equal to maxiC M dA-g A rigorous of the above reformulation can be found in 11 For a discussion on the remaining solution procedure please refer to Scenario 1 earlier in the section Figure 6 shows another scenario but now with five airborne nodes In this one 7  N  M Kii  K:jj-2K:ij  t Vi E  N  A 33 subject to dAi i_  rsep for all i,j S 8 34 Lemma 3.5 Convexity of the optimization problem The constrained optimization problem described in Equations 33 and 34 is a convex optimization problem Note that the constraints dA AjK rsep for all i j describe a convex set The fact that maxiC{1,...,N dAiA is a convex function of Al AN can be easily shown using the triangle inequality for metric spaces subject to dA,-Aj K rsep for all i j C ES 36 Two example scenarios are discussed as follows In the first scenario we have four ground and four airborne nodes The locations of the ground nodes are as depicted by the asterisks in Figure 5 The airborne network topology is a ring The constant rsep is 200 nautical miles The blue solid lines in Figure 5 denote communication links between the airborne nodes The dashed lines represent the communication links between the airborne and ground nodes The numeric values represent distances for the corresponding links To obtain the optimal locations of the airborne trajectory centers we first relax the problem and pose it as a semi-definite program Notice that this problem is a convex optimization problem and can be solved even if the objective function is not differentiable using sub-gradient methods However our heuristic involving SDP has also been observed to give optimal solutions The semi-definite program is as follows First let us define the augmented vector X  Al  4ANQ1    GM and let C  XTX The optimization problem in Equations 35 and 36 can be written as min t 37 subject to K:ii  K:jj-21 ij  rp Vi j E K:ii  K:jj-2Kij  dgi gj Vi j E N  1 j IC O 38 39 40 41 42 E N  MI   


of the nodes is not assigned to any ground node as described earlier The topology for airborne network is again a ring Notice that the communication links between airborne and ground nodes are shorter now signifying greater upload capacity This is due to the fact that the extra airborne node allows for the network to spread out more and hence get closer to the ground nodes 4 Ground nodes 4 Airborne nodes Ix 32 3464 250 P 200 f68 3215 150 49~2218 100 501541 98 99 74 52 0632 1 Choose uniformly and randomly N cluster centers 2 Assign each ground node to the cluster center that is nearest to it Let Qcl  c be the ground nodes assigned to the cth cluster 3 For each cluster say c compute the new cluster center as k  Argmin max dA-gm i A i{fci  I 44 4 Repeat the above steps till the locations of the cluster centers do not change beyond a certain threshold Let A AN be the cluster centers kl  kN obtained as the output of the algorithm Next the convex optimization problem in Equations 33 and 34 is solved to obtain the desired airborne trajectory centers   760~53 52 0632 200 150 100 50 0 50 100 150 x Figure 5 Coverage using multiple airborne nodes when locations of ground nodes are known Here we have 4 ground nodes denoted by s and 4 airborne nodes denoted by circles The axes represent x,y lLocations on a 2 D plane The optimal placement results in each airborne node providing coverage to a unique ground node while maintaining a connected topology between themselves 1-76-77-72142265 150 100 50 0 x 39 5904 50 100 Figure 6 In thLs case there is an extra airborne node The op timal placement in this case results in higher maximum data upload capacity to each ground node Note that one airborne node approximately at 60,130 acts purely as a relay 2 Number of ground nodes greater than the number of airborne nodes In this case the problem in general is NP hard An efficient and popular method of solving this problem is a heuristic similar to the k-means clustering algorithm described as follows 4 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK Conclusions In this paper we have studied the placement planning problem of the airborne network We first define two metrics maximum data upload capacity for air-ground links and worst case link activity percentage for air-air links We have shown that the maximum data upload capacity is a measure of the coverage provided to a single ground node and the worst case link activity percentage for a single air-air link is a decreasing function of the distance between the centers of the loiter orbits of the airborne nodes We have also discussed how this measure is useful in the design of networks for delay-tolerant applications This paper considers three practically interesting scenarios for the deployment of the airborne network backbone where the purpose of the airborne network is to provide coverage to the ground nodes while maintaining a certain degree of reliability and connectivity in the inter-airborne node topol8 250 200 7.3458 46.9364 Figure 7 A snapshot of the optimal coverage of 4 ground nodes using 5 airborne nodes The rings at the top indicate the loiter orbits of the airborne nodes the shaded circles on the ground indicate their respective instantaneous coverage disk and the fixed ground node positions are indicated by s 150  100 _ 50 24.9954 200 4 Ground nodes 5 Airborne nodes 15.8688 


ogy Results of this paper can be directly useful to the Objective Gateway program of the Air Force where several Battlefield Airborne Communication Nodes BACNs and their ground counterparts the Rapid Attack Information Dissemination Execution Relay RAIDERs The goal of the Objective Gateway program is to provide networking technology to the forward edge of the battlefield and create a high-capacity airborne communication backbone Future Work This paper is the first step towards developing a mission planning toolbox for the airborne network deployment problem A few further research directions could be accounting for link disruptions due to airborne platform banking expanding the optimization search space to include non-circular or tilted loiter orbits accounting for terrain effects providing coverage to mobile airborne nodes that are involved in a mission tactical edge networks planning so as to optimally use satellite communication when certain airborne links are inactive developing multiple tiers of airborne backbones located at different elevations and incorporating topology control such that the airborne nodes can change power levels thus radio range during periods where airborne topology is sparse ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors would like to thank Maneesh Varshney and Prof Mario Gerla for insightful discussions on the subject matter of this paper This work was supported under Air Force phase I SBIR grant number FA8750-07-C-0158 7 K Schroth and D Kiwior Interdomain Routing for Mobile Nodes Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2007 to appear 8 E G I D Kiwior and S V Pizzi Quality of Service QoS Sensitivity for the OSPF Protocol in the Airborne Networking Environment Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 9 L V J Cooley 0 Huang and S McGarry Mobile Airborne Networking Experience with Paul Revere Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 10 K Q Weinberger and L K Saul Unsupervised Learning of Image Manifolds by Semidefinite Programming International Journal of Computer Vision vol 70 no 1 pp 77-90 2006 11 S Boyd and L Vandenberghe Convex Optimization Cambridge University Press 2006 12 J Lfberg Yalmip A toolbox for modeling and optimization in MATLAB in Proceedings of the CACSD Conference Taipei Taiwan 2004 Online Available http://control.ee.ethz.ch joloef/yalmip.php 13 R A Horn and C R Johnson Matrix Analysis Cambridge University Press 1985 14 N Megiddo and A Tamir New results on the complexity of p-center problems SIAM Journal on Computing vol 12 no 4 pp 751-758 November 1983 REFERENCES 1 T A Kostas and T G Macdonald A Methodology for Evaluating and Planning Future Airborne Networks Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2004 2 R Ramirez Link Management in the Air Force Airborne Network Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2005 3 Y Wang and Y J Zhao Fundamental Issues in Systematic Design of Airborne Networks for Aviation Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference 2006 4 B Epstein and V Mehta Free Space Optical Communications Routing Performance in Highly Dynamic Airspace Environment Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference 2004 5 M Dehkordi K Chandrashekhar and J S Baras A placement algorithm for enhanced connectivity and reliability in wireless ad-hoc networks in Conference on Future Networking Technologies CoNEXT Toulouse France October 2005 6 D Kiwior and L Lam Routing Protocol Performance over Intermittent Links Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference 2007 to appear 9 


  10 Airborne Collision Avoidance System and Enhanced Vision System  Akira Ishide was born in Tokyo Japan.  He received the B.S. degree in 1971 from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan.   Since 1971, he has been with the Electronic Navigation Research Institute, Ministry of Transport Tokyo, Japan.   He received the Ph D. in 1996 from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan Since 2001, he has been with the Electronic Navigation Research Institute, Independent Administrative Institution He has been engaged in research on Aeronautical Satellite Communication System, Array Antenna System, and so on 


Alan Little is the MEDLI Project Manager at NASA's Langley Research Center He previously served on a variety of earth remote sensing missions and recently served as the NASA-CNES interface manager and the payload assembly integration and test manager on the joint NASAICNES CALIPSO Mission that was launched in April 2006 He has a MS in Optics from the University of Rochester Neil Cheatwood earned B.S MS and Ph.D degrees in aerospace engineering from NC State University He has played key roles in a number of NASA's planetary atmospheric flight programs and is a nationally recognized expert in aerosciences and flight mechanics for planetary entry systems He is currently serving as the Hypersonics Project Scientist for the Fundamental Aeronautics Program with NASA's ARMD Dr Cheatwood is also the Principle Investigator for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project In recent years he led NASA LaRC efforts to develop inflatable aeroshell technologies He served as CoInvestigator to Claude Graves of NASA JSC on the NASA ESMD ESR&T Inflatable Aeroshell and TPS Development IA TD Project He served as the Principle Investigator for NASA LaRCs Inflatable Reentry Vehicle Experiment IRVE as well as the follow-on Program to Advance Inflatable Decelerators for Atmospheric Entry PAI-DAE Dr Cheatwood was responsible for aerodynamic databases of Stardust Mars Microprobe Genesis and Mars Exploration Rovers He has also contributed to the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Sample Return flight projects Dr Cheatwood is an AIAA Associate Fellow and the principle author or co-author of 60 technical publications in the fields of fluid dynamics atmospheric entry and systems engineering Jeff Herath serves as the Lead Systems Engineer and Chief Engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI He also serves as the Assistant Head of the Atmospheric Flight and Entry Systems Branch AFESB to plan direct and coordinate Branch activities in the areas offlight and entry systems research and development Mr Herath previously was the Acting Assistant Branch Head for Electronic Systems and served as the branch leadfor new business activities proposals and their development He was also the Principal Investigator PI for the Radiation Tolerant Intelligent Memory Stack RTIMS Project which successfully developed and demonstrated an in-flight reconfigurable radiation tolerant stacked memory array He co-founded Vianix LC a company developing and licensing voice compression technology and served as its Chief Technology Officer He developed the company's voice compression technology and was responsible for all research  development engineering personnel and production efforts He has 6 patents As Manager of Hardware Development at Arc Second Inc he designed and built a unique laser based three-dimensional positioning system which opened new markets for the company At E-Systems he successfully completed several military avionics programs and payload that were classified and consisted of system box and board level designs Michelle Munk has been a NASA employee for nearly 20 years first at the Johnson Space Center then at the Langley Research Center She has been involved in Mars advanced mission studies for many years both robotic and human contributing interplanetary trajectory analysis and entry and descent analysis She has managed the delivery of International Space Station hardware and was on the Mars Odyssey aerobraking operations team In 2002 Ms Munk accepted a detail assignment to become the Lead Engineer for Aerocapture Technology Development under In-Space Propulsion at Marshall Space Flight Center She managed the technical work of ISP Aerocapture for nearly 5 years before becoming the Project Area Manager and returning to Langley in 2007 Ms Munk is also a subsystem leadfor the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project and contributes to other NASA projects developing entry system technologies She has a BSAE from Virginia Tech and completed graduate coursework at the University of Houston Frank Novak is an Assistant Branch Head for Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA He serves as the MEDLI Subsystem Manager for the Sensor Support Electronics SSE system Mr Novak has over 20 years of experience in the design development and test of spaceflight electronics He served as the lead development manager for the EVA IR Camera Project lead engineer for the visible imager for the GIFTS project lead electronics engineer for the pointing spectrometer for the Mars ARES project lead integration and test engineer for the SAGE III project and lead engineer for the interface adaptor module for SAGE III He earned a BS in Physics from Christopher Newport University in 1999 11 


Ed Martinez is a Project Manager/Lead Scientist/Project Engineer with 20 years experience in the aerospace and electromechanical field He is responsible for leading the Thermal Protection System TPS instrumentation programs for the NASA Ames Research Center As Project Manager he simultaneously managed multiple teams of scientists engineers and engineering technicians responsible for TPS projects including test analysis and technology advancement As Lead Scientist he was engaged in the characterization and operations of the world's largest shock tube This facility produced simultaneous overpressure and thermal environments at shock speeds up to Mach 5 As a Project Engineer his experience included project initiation coordination and providing design and instrument criteria for operating multi-100 million dollar DoD facilities Mr Martinez also managed data handling performed analysis reporting of test results and maintained technical proficiency in shockwave phenomenology 12 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


