Towards a Discovering Knowledge Comprehensible and Exploitable by the End-user Amel Grissa Touzi Department of Technologies of Information and Communications in Ecole Nationale d’Ingénieurs de Tunis, Tunisia amel.touzi@enit.rnu.tn    Abstract The main goal to extract knowledge in database is to help the user to give semantics of data and to optimize the information research. Unfortunately, this fundamental constraint is not taken into account by almost all the approaches for knowledge discovery. Indeed, these approaches generate a big number of rules that are not easily assimilated by the human brain. In this paper, we propose a new approach for Knowledge Discovery in Databases through the fusion of 
conceptual clustering, fuzzy logic, and formal concept analysis While basing on the hierarchical structure offered by the lattices, we proceed to discover the Knowledge in a hierarchical way. Thus, according to the degree of detail required by the user, this approach proposes a level of knowledge and different views of this knowledge, so the user can easily exploit all knowledge generated. Moreover, this solution is extensible; the user is able to choose the fuzzy method of classification according to the domain of his data and his needs Keywords;  Clustering, formal concept analysis, Fuzzy Logic knowledge discovery in databases, association rules I 
 I NTRODUCTION  Nowadays, we notice a growing interest for the Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD\ methods. Thus several algorithms for mining association rules were proposed in the literature, they are based on neural networks trees, concept lattices, association rules, etc H o we ver   generated rules by these algorithms, exceeding some times of thousand rules, are not easily assimilated by the human brain. In this case, the user must choose among these rules those which are intimately bound to the operation that he wants to carry out  Sever a l ap proac h es o f r e d u c t i o n o f  this big number of rules have been proposed like the use of 
quality measurements, syntactic filtering by constraints, and compression by the representative or generic bases [4 Authors sho w t h at  wi t h t h i s  m e t hod the n u m b er of generated rules has been reduced but remains always thousands of rules To our opinion, the big number of the generated rules is due because these approaches try to determine rules starting from the enormous data set.  To cure this problem, we propose a new KDD approach having the principal following characteristics  Extract knowledge taking in consideration another degree of granularity into the process of knowledge extraction. Indeed, we propose to define rules \(Meta 
Rules\etween classes resulting from a preliminary classification on the data. Then, we automatically deduce knowledge about the initial data set   Discover knowledge, which covers parts of the primary database at different levels of abstraction. Thus, we define the level i of knowledge as the set of knowledge on all objects verifying i properties Therefore according to the degree of detail required by the user this approach proposes a level of knowledge, so the user can easily exploit all knowledge generated    Propose different views of knowledge discovered according to the user's needs 
 The knowledge discovered contains no redundant rule  Also, we prove that this solution reduced considerably the number of generated rules, offered a better interpretation of the data and optimized both the space memory and the execution time. This approach is extensible; the user is able to choose the fuzzy method of classification according to the domain of his data and his needs   The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the basic concepts of discovering association rules Fuzzy conceptual scaling and Formal Concept Analysis FCA\. Section 3 presents problems and limits of the existing 
knowledge discovery approaches. Section 4 gives notations related to our new approach that we proposed. Section 5 describes our KDD model. Section 6 presents how the user can easily exploit knowledge generated by our approach Section 7 enumerates the advantages of the proposed approach. Section 8 validates the proposed approach. We finish this paper with a conclusion and a presentation of some future works II  B ASIC C ONCEPTS  In this section, we present the basic concepts of discovering association rules, Fuzzy conceptual scaling and FCA A  Discovering Association Rules 
Association rules mining have been developed in order to analyze basket data in a marketing environment. Input data are composed of transactions: each transaction consists of items purchased by a consumer during a single visit. Output data is composed of rules [5  Even if t h is m e thod wa s introduced in the context of Market Business Analysis, it has many applications in other fields, like webmining or textmining. It can also be used to search for frequent cooccurrences in every large data set 
2010 Second International Conference on Advances in Databases, Knowledge, and Data Applications 978-0-7695-3981-2/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/DBKDA.2010.36 126 
 


The first efficient algorithm to mine association rules is APriori 6   T h e f i r s t s t ep o f t h is a l g o r ith m i s  th e r e search of frequent itemsets. The user gives a minimum threshold for the support and the algorithm searches all itemsets that appear with a support greater than this threshold. The second step is to build rules from the itemsets found in the first step The algorithm computes confidence of each rule and keeps only those where confidence is greater than a threshold defined by the user. One of the main problems is to define support and confidence thresholds. Other algorithms were proposed to improve computational efficiency. Among them we mention CLOSED [7 CHAR M 8], TIT A NIC [9 1 0   GENA N CE 1 2   Several varieties of lattice have been introduced with these algorithms,  like  Iceberg Concept lattices  [1 wher e the nodes are frequent closed itemsets  ordered by the inclusion relation, Minimal Generators Lattice [1 e r e the nodes are the minimal Generators \(called  key itemsets are ordered by the inclusion relation. In these cases, we don't construct the FCA on the data but on the found itemsets. For more detail the reader can see [1   B  Fuzzy conceptual scaling and FCA Conceptual scaling theory is the central part in Formal Concept Analysis \(FCA\ws introduce for the embedding of the given data much more general scales than the usual chains and direct products of chains. In the direct products of the concept lattices of these scales the given data can be embedd FCA starts with the notion of a formal context specifying which objects have what attributes and thus a formal context may be viewed as a binary relation between the object set and the attribute set with the values 0 and 1. Wille’s definition of a concept is a pair consisting of a set of objects the extension\ and a set of attributes \(the intension\h that the intension consists of exactly those attributes that the objects in the extension have in common, and the extension contains exactly those objects that share all attributes in the intensio I n  1 4  an  or d e r e d latti ce ex te nsi o n  the o r y  has been proposed: Fuzzy Formal Concept Analysis \(FFCA in which uncertainty information is directly represented by a real number of membership value in the range of [0 I n  this case, the similarity of a fuzzy formal concept is defined as follow Definition The similarity of a fuzzy formal concept 1 1 1  B A C and its subconcept 2 2 2  B A C is defined as    2 1 2 1 2 1  A A A A C C S  where and refer intersection and union operators on fuzzy e sp ectivel y   In [16, 17, 18, 19  we s h o w ed as t h ese FFCA ar e v e ry  powerful as well in the interpretation of the results of the Fuzzy Clustering, in Optimization of the flexible query that in the definition of a summary of a Database Example Let a relational database table presented by Table1 containing the list of AGE and SALARY of Employee TABLE I  A RELATIONAL DATABASE TABLE   SALARY AGE t1 800 30 t2 600 35 t3 400 26 t4 900 40 t5 1000 27 t6 500 30  Table 2 presents the results of fuzzy clustering \(using Fuzzy C-Means [20  pl i e d to  Age and Salary attributes For Salary attribute, fuzzy clustering generates three clusters C1,C2 and C3\For AGE attribute, two clusters have been generated \(C4 and C5\.   In our example Cut Salary 0.3 and Cut Age\ = 0.5,  so, the Table 2 can be rewriting as show in Table 3 TABLE II  F UZZY C ONCEPTUAL S CALES FOR AGE AND SALARY ATTRIBUTES   SALARY AGE  C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 t1 0.1 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.5 t2 0.3 0.6 0.1 0.4 0.6 t3 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.3 t4 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.2 0.8 t5 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.4 t6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 TABLE III  F UZZY C ONCEPTUAL S CALES FOR AGE AND S ALARY ATTRIBUTES WITH Cut     SALARY AGE  C1  C2 C3 C4 C5 t1 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.5 t2 0.3 0.6   0.6 t3 0.7  0.7  t4 0.4 0.5 0.8 t5 0.5 0.5 0.6  t6 0.5 0.5  0.5 0.5  The corresponding fuzzy concept lattices of fuzzy context presented in Table 3, noted as TAH’s are given by the linediagrams presented in the Figure 1 and 2         Figure 1  Salary TAH 
127 
 


 Figure 2  Age TAH III  P ROBLEMS AND M OTIVATION  The traditional algorithms try to trace the decision tree or the FCA or one of these extensions to extract the association rules.  In this case, researchers always focus on giving an optimum set of rules modeling in a faithful way the starting data unit, after having done a data cleansing step and an elimination of invalid-value elements. To our point of view limits of these approaches consist in extracting the set of rules departing from the data or a data variety like the frequent itemsets or the frequent closed itemsets, which may be huge. Thus we note the following limits  These approaches require a big space memory for data modeling and an important execution time for the management of their data structures  The rules generated from these data are generally redundant rules  These algorithms generated a very big number of rules almost thousands, that the human brain cannot even assimilate  Some previous works demonstrated that the behavior of these algorithms of association rules extraction varies strongly according to the features of the used data set  Th e num b e r of  the gen e rated associati on r u les i n  general varies from several ten of thousands to several millions [3, 22  The Execu tio n ti m e s ob ta i n ed strong ly  vary according to the used algorithm [23    Generated rules by these algorithms don't take into account the data semantics nor the importance of an attribute in relation to another in the data description according to the specific domain of this data set; and  Generally the goal to extract a set of rules is to help the user to give semantics of data and to optimize the information research. This fundamental constraint is not taken into account by these approaches  To cure all these problems, we propose a new approach for knowledge extraction using conceptual clustering, fuzzy logic, and FCA IV  N OTATIONS RELATED TO OUR KDD MODEL  In this section, we present some news concepts for our new approach Definition A fuzzy Clusters Lattice \(FCL\ of a Fuzzy Concept Lattice, is consist on a Fuzzy Concept Lattice such as each equivalence class \(i.e. a node of the lattice\contains only the intentional description \(intent\ of the associated fuzzy formal concept. We make in this case a certain abstraction on the list of the objects with their degrees of membership in the clusters. The nodes of FCL are clusters ordered by the inclusion relation Definition A level i of a FCL is the set of nodes of FCL having cardinality equal to i  Definition A Knowledge level is an abstraction level is regarded as a level in the FCL generated  Definition Let I= {C1, C2, …, Cp, Cq , …, Cn  n Clusters generated by a classification algorithm A fuzzy association meta-rule called meta-rule is an implication of the form R: I1  => I2 \(CF   where I1 = { C1, C2, …, Cp and  I2={ Cq , …, Cn  I1 and I2 are called, respectively, the premise part and conclusion part of the meta-rule R The value CF is in 0 1] and ca l l e d  Confidence Factor of this meta-rule. This value indicates the relative degree of importance of this meta-rule   R is interpreted as follows:  if an object belongs to a cluster C1 C2  Cp then this object can also belongs to the cluster Cq  Cn with a probability equal to CF   Note that classical \(or crisp\sociation meta-rules can be defined as a special case of fuzzy association meta-rules Indeed, when CF=1 then a fuzzy association meta-rule is equivalent to a classical one  Example Let R: C1 => C2  \(60%\means that any object belongs to a cluster C1 can also belongs to the cluster C2 with a probability equal to 60   Definition Let A1,A2...,Ap,Aq,…An   n attributes having respectively l11,l12...,l 1m  l21,l22... ,l2 m   lp1 ,lp2..., l pm  lq1,lq2...,l qm   ln1,ln2...,ln m} as linguistic labels A fuzzy association rule or rule is an implication of the form r: I1  I2 CF where I1 = { A1\(l1\A2\(l2\, …, Ap lp\ } and I2= { Aq\(lq\, …, An ln   Ai\(li\ models the attribute Ai having a linguistic label li  I1 and I2 are called, respectively, the premise part and conclusion part of the fuzzy rule r The value CF  and called Confidence Factor of this rule  Definition We define Meta Knowledge \(respectively Knowledge as a set of fuzzy association meta-rule  respectively rule We define the level i of Meta Knowledge \(respectively knowledge as the set of fuzzy association meta-rule  respectively rule\ on all objects verifying i properties   Proposition 1 Rewriting meta- rule  Let C1= {A1, A2, …, An} and C2={B1 , …, Bm two set of Clusters. The fuzzy association meta-rule  
128 
 


R : A1,..,An => B1,..,Bm    \(CF  is equivalent to R1 defined as follow R1 A1,..,An => C1,..,Cq    \(CF  such that C1,…,Cq} = C2\\C1 Ci, Ci A1,…An  Proposition 2 Rule Generation Given C1={A1.., An},  C2={B1.., Bn} and C3={D1.., Dn} three set of Clusters and R1,R2 two meta rule defined as follows R 1: A1,..,An => B1,..,Bn   \(d1  and R 2: B1,..,Bn => D1,..,Dn    \(d2  Then, we deduce the meta rule defined as follows R 3: A1,..,An => D1,..,Dn      \(d3\;  such that d3= d2\(d1  Example From the two meta-rule R1 and R2 defined as R1 : C2 => C2,C4    60% and  R2 : C2,C4 =>C2, C3, C4  53  We can deduce R3 C2 =>C2, C3,C4   31 R3 can rewriting as R3 C2 => C3,C4                  31  This rule is interpreted as follows: 53% of 60% of the objects which belong to C2 obtained by the rule R1, can also belongs to the cluster C3 and C4 with a probability equal to  31 V  KDD  MODEL  D ESCRIPTION  In this section, we present the architecture of the KDD model and the process for discovering knowledge A  System Architecture Our KDD model takes the database records and provides the set of knowledge correspondent. Figure 3 shows the proposed approach. It consists of two steps: the first step consists in data organization and the second aims at Extraction of Knowledge    Figure 3  KDD Model  B  Theoretical Foundation of the KDD model In this part, we present the theoretical foundations of the proposed approach, based on the following properties Properties 1  The number of clusters generated by a classification algorithm  is always  lower  than the number of starting objects to which one applies the classification algorithm  All objects belonging to one same cluster have the same proprieties. These characteristics can be deduced easily knowing the center and the distance from the cluster  The size of the lattice modeling the properties of the clusters is lower  than the size of the lattice modeling the properties of the objects  The management of the lattice modeling the properties of the clusters is optimum  than the management of the lattice modeling the properties of the objects  Properties 2 Let C1, C2 be two clusters, generated by a classification algorithm and verifying the properties p1 and p2 respectively. Then the following properties are equivalent C1 C2  \(CR   object O1 C1 =>  O1 C2 \(CR   object O1 C1,  O1 checks the property p1 of C1 and the property p2 of C2.  \(CR  Properties 3 Let C1, C2 and C3 be three clusters generated by a classification algorithm and verifying the properties p1, p2 and p3 respectively. Then the following properties are equivalent:       C1, C2 = > C3  \(CR    object O1 C1 C2 = > O1 object C3 \(CR  object O1 C1 C2 then O1 checks the properties p1, p2 and p3 with \(CR  The proof of the two properties rises owing to the fact that all objects which belong to a same cluster check necessarily the same property as their cluster C  Data Organization Step This step gives a certain number of clusters for each attribute. Each tuple has values in the interval [0,1  representing these membership degrees according the formed clusters. Linguistic labels, which are fuzzy partitions, will be attributed on attribute’s domain. This step consists of TAH’s and MTAH generation of relieving attributes. This phase is very important in KDD Process because it allows to define and interpreter the distribution of objects in the various clusters. We already used this step in [16, 17, 18, 19    Example Let a relational database table presented by Table 1 containing the list of AGE and SALARY of Employee. Table 2 presents the results of fuzzy clustering applied to Age and Salary attributes The minimal value respectively maximal\ of each cluster corresponds on the lower respectively higher interval terminal of the values of this last. Each cluster of a 
129 
 


partition is labeled with a linguistic labels provided by the user or a domain expert. For example, the fuzzy labels young  and adult could belong to a partition built over the domain of the attribute AGE Also, the fuzzy labels low  Medium and High could belong to a partition built over the domain of the attribute Salary The Table 4 presents the correspondence of the linguistic labels and their designations for the attributes Salary and Age. The corresponding fuzzy concept lattices of fuzzy context presented in Table 5, noted as TAH’s are given by the line diagrams presented in Figure 1 and 2 TABLE IV  C ORRESPONDENCE OF THE LINGUISTIC LABELS AND THEIR DESIGNATIONS  Attribute Linguistic labels Designation Salary Low C1 Salary Medium C2 Salary High C3 Age Young C4 Age Adult C5 TABLE V  F UZZY C ONCEPTUAL S CALES FOR AGE AND S ALARY ATTRIBUTES WITH Cut     SALARY AGE  Low  C1  Medium  C2 High C3 Young C4 Adult C5 t1 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.5 t2 0.3 0.6   0.6 t3 0.7   0.7  t4 0.4 0.5  0.8 t5 0.5 0.5 0.6  t6 0.5 0.5  0.5 0.5  This very simple sorting procedure gives us for each many-valued attribute the distribution of the objects in the line diagram of the chosen fuzzy scale.  Usually, we are interested in the interaction between two or more fuzzy many-valued attributes. This interaction can be visualized using the so-called fuzzy nested line diagrams.  It is used for visualizing larger fuzzy concept lattices, and combining fuzzy conceptual scales on-line. Figure 4 shows the fuzzy nested lattice constructed from Figure 1 and 2   Figure 4  Fuzzy Lattice:  MTAH D  Phase of Discovering Knowledge This step consists on three phases: FCL Generation Discovering Meta knowledge and Deduction Knowledge. In the following, we detail these different steps 1  FCL Generation The goal of this phase is make a certain abstraction on the list of the objects with their degrees of membership in the clusters. Indeed, to determine the set of fuzzy meta-rule we don't need more to safeguard the data since we already safeguarded the distance between these nodes.  Thus, from the fuzzy lattice, obtained in the first step, we can draw the correspondent FCL. The nodes of FCL are clusters ordered by the inclusion relation. As shown from the Figure 5, we obtain a lattice more reduced, simpler to traverse and stored                Figure 5  Fuzzy Clusters Lattice  FCL Considering the FCL in Figure 5, we can generate the following levels with the corresponding FCL. The Level 0 and Level 6 are both the root and leaves of FCL. The Level 1 corresponds to the nodes {C1}, {C5},{C2}, {C4}. It allows the identification of the clusters which permits to deduce knowledge. The Level 2 corresponds to nodes {C2 C5},{C2, C4},{C2, C3},{C1, C4}. This level permits to identify all the existing overlapping between two clusters Thus, it allows the knowledge discovery of all objects belonging to the intersection of the two clusters. Generally Level i corresponds to the nodes having i clusters. This permits to identify all the existing of overlapping between i clusters. It allows the knowledge discovery on all objects belonging to the intersection of these i clusters. Note that the nodes of Level 4 has all the departing arcs with weight d=0 i.e. since there is no object belonging to the intersection of this clusters. Consequently, there is no knowledge to discover. Also, note that the Level 5 corresponds to the leaves of FCL, therefore, there is no knowledge to discover  2  Discovering Meta knowledge In this subsection, we present our algorithm for discovering Meta Knowledge from a FCL Given an FCL, the derivation of fuzzy association metarules can be performed straightforwardly. Indeed, the metarule represent “inter-node” implications, assorted with the FC, between two adjacent comparable equivalence classes  
130 
 


i.e., from a set of clusters to another set of clusters immediately covering it. The confidence Factor will be equal to the weight of the arc binding the two nodes.  Such an implication brings into participate two comparable equivalence classes, i.e. of a set of clusters towards another set of cluster including it in the partial order structure  a  Principle for discovering knowledge from FCL Rule1: Discovering meta rule Let C1={A1.., An} and C2={B1.., Bm} two nodes of FCL such as C2 is successors of C1 in the lattice and having as distance d>0 \(weight of the arc\he generated meta-rule will be defined as follows: R : A1,..,An => B1,..,Bm      \(d  Note that, If d=0 this implies that there is no object in common to the two concepts C1, C2. There is no knowledge to discover. T his implies that it doesn't exist no knowledge to generated  Example The meta-rule C5 C2,C5 \(0,83\, is generated starting from the two equivalence classes, whose their respective nodes are Clusters {C5}, {C2,C5} having as distance d=0.83  Rule2: Discovering meta rule  Let C1={A1.., An} and C2={B1.., Bm} two nodes of FCL such as C2 is successors of C1 in the lattice and having as distance d>0 weight of the arc\erated meta-rule will be defined by R : A1,..,An => C1,..,Cq      \(d\ that  {C1,…,Cq B1.., Bm}\\{A1.., An Ci, Ci A1,…An Example The meta-rule C5 C2 \(0,83\generated starting from the two equivalence classes, whose their respective nodes are Clusters {C5}, {C2,C5} having as distance d=0.83  Rule3: Generated meta-rule Let C1={A1.., An} C2={B1.., Bn} and C3={D1.., Dn three concepts such as C2 successors of C1 and C2 successor of C3 having as respectively distance d1 and d2 The generated meta-rule will be defined by R 3: A1,..,An => D1,..,Dn      \(d2*d1  Example The meta-rule C2 =>C2, C3,C4       31% is generated starting from the three equivalence classes, whose their respective nodes are Clusters {C2} {C2,C4}and {C2, C3, C4 } having as distance 0.60 and =0.53 This rule can be simplified as follows C2 = > C3, C4 31 This is interpreted as follows:  31% of the objects which belong to C2 check the properties modeled by the clusters C3 and C4 b  Algorithm for Discovering Fuzzy Association Metarules This algorithm traverses the search space \(FCL\y level to determine the Fuzzy Meta Rules Set \(FMRS\s input it takes the lattice of Clusters FCL and  returns, as output, the list of all Fuzzy Meta Rules Set \(FMRS\d. It works as follows: For each non empty node  FCL in descending we generate all meta-rules with one cluster conclusion \(level 0\. Then, generate the set of all meta-rules with two Clusters conclusions. The same process is applied to generate conclusions with four clusters, and so on until conclusions with n clusters have been generated. The pseudo-code for this algorithm is given in the Figure 6 Note that Niveau_max \(FCL is a function return the number of clusters modeled in the FCL Figure 6  The pseudo-code for Diskovering FMRS algorithm Find_Cluster \(FCL, i, S is a procedure allow to compute the set S containing all set of clusters modelled in the nodes to level i Generate_Rule\(FMRS,FMRS1 is a  procedure permits to determine the set of all rules which one can deduce with part of the FMRS set  by applying the Rule3 Let's note that the FMRS set doesn't contain any redundant rule. Indeed one has the following proposition  Proposition 3 If the system of extraction rules traverses the search space  by level of the lattice of clusters then no rule generated by this system is redundant \(all the generated rules are obligatorily distinct Proof This is due that of a level to another of the lattice the nodes are obligatorily distinct \(by definition even of a level of lattice 3  Deduction Knowledge In this part, we present, in the first, the rule of Transformation of a fuzzy association meta-rule into fuzzy association rule  Generating Meta-knowledge Input Fuzzy Cluster Lattice FCL Output FMRS: Fuzzy Meta Rules Set Begin FMRS  Find_Cluster\(FCL, 0, S For each  subconcept Cj ={y1,…ym}of Ci in S r.premise  r.conclusion={y1,y2,…ym r.CF=1  FMRS FMRS  r  End For  Nmax Niveau_max\(FCL For Niv  :=1  to Nmax-1 do Find_Cluster\(FCL, i, S For Ci={x1,…xm}  in  S   do For each  subconcept Cj ={y1,…ym}of Ci and having \(d>0   r.premise=  {x1,x2,…xn r.conclusion={y1,y2,…ym} \\ {x1,x2,…xn r.CF=d  FMRS=FMRS r  End For    End For End For Generate_Rule\(FMRS,FMRS1 FMRS:= FMRS FMRS1 End 
131 
 


Rule: Transformation of a fuzzy association meta-rule into fuzzy association rule Let A1,A2...,Ap,Aq,…An  be n attributes having respectively l11,l12...,l 1m  l21,l22...,l2 m   lp1   ,lp2... ,l pm  lq1,lq2...,l qm   ln1,ln2...,ln m} as linguistic labels Let I= {C1, C2, …, Cp, Cq , …, Cn be a n Clusters generated by a classification algorithm. Each Ci designates linguistic labels for a given attribute The fuzzy association meta-rule R: C1,..,Cp Cq , …, Cn  CF is transformed in   R1 defined as follow  lq\…, An\(ln\ \(CF such that Ai\(i is the linguistic label for attribute Ai  design the cluster Ci  Example Let us consider Table 4 presents the correspondence of the linguistic labels and their designations for the attributes Salary and Age The meta-rule C5  C2  83 is transformed in Age\(Adult\y\(Medium\    83 VI  H OW THE USER CAN EXPLOIT KNOWLEDGE GENERATED BY THIS APPROACH  As we mentioned at the beginning,  the essential goal of the extraction of knowledge is to help the user to seek information in this data set and to satisfy his needs. In this section we propose different views of knowledge generated According to the user's needs the generated rules can be ordered in several ways Indeed,  while changing our point of entrance view, it is possible to have a different view point on data. So we can model our knowledge with three different views  To order the list of rules by level of Knowledge every level i of knowledge fact to intervene i properties  To order the list of the rules by the characteristics which an object must check so that it can verified a certain properties  To order the list of rules by properties that can have an object knowing that it verifies a p property  Moreover, this approach makes it possible to the user to define a cut on the rules generated by the system to specify until which coefficient CF, it gives confidence to a rule Beyond this value the rule can be considered as weak and will not be taken into account Examples 1 The user wants to know all the objects checking two properties For this, we seek the rules describe in level2; so we find, as example, the following rules Salary\(Low\ => Age\(Young\    80 2 The user wants to know, what are properties that must have an employee, so that he will have a medium salary For this, we seeks the rules having like conclusion Salary\(medium\; so we find the two following rules Age\(young\  =>  Salary\(Medium 65 Age\(Adult\  =>  Salary\(Medium\              83 This we can interpret it as follows: to have a medium salary 83 3 The user wants to know that are properties which an employee can check, if he has a low salary For this we seeks the rules having like premise Salary\(low\; so we find the two following rules Young Salary\(Low\ary\(Medium\, Age\(Adult This we can interpret it as follows:  having the low salary two cases is possible Either this person is young   80% , or Either this person is adult and has medium salary 53 this means that his salary in the superior part of the interval modelled low Salary Remark The fact of having in the same rule Salary\(Low and Salary\(Medium\, is not contradictory but this means that the person has low Salary which are in the overlapping in the part medium Salary. This implies that his Salary is necessarily in the highest zone of the low Salary and in the lowest zone of medium Salary VII  A DVANTAGES OF THE N EW A PPROACH  Different advantages are granted by the proposed approach 1 The definition of the Meta knowledge concept  This definition is very important, since the number of rules generated is smaller: we define the set of meta-rules between the clusters and we can generate automatically the association rules between the data, if we want more details  Also, this concept permits to have a global view on the data set which is very voluminous. Thus, it models a certain abstraction of the data that is fundamental in the case of an enormous number of data  2 The definition of the level of knowledge concept  This approach enables us to hide and to exhibit the details encapsulated while moving between the different levels of the hierarchy during the discovery of knowledge. Thus according to the degree of detail required by the user, we can propose a level of knowledge \(more general level 1 towards most specific level N 3 Extensibility of the proposed approach 1\ Our approach can be applied with any fuzzy classification algorithm  to classify the initial data. 2\We can generate the maximum of knowledge on our initial data set; it’s enough to modify the choice of the classification criteria. These criteria can be chosen by the user like parameters of entry according to the importance of the attribute in its applicability. 3\We can classify our data according to different criteria and obtain different clusters which generate a different set of Meta knowledge VIII  V ALIDATION OF THE PROPOSED APPROACH  To validate the approach proposed, we chose:  1\he FCM \(Fuzzy C-Means\ algorithm for a fuzzy classification of the data set, and 2 Ganter algorithm fo r th e  construction of the lattice. We currently develop this approach with JAVA language About complexity: 1\ The space complexity, whatever the number of database records, is thus reduced to a constant value, i.e., about 1 O This characteristic is fundamental in 
132 
 


the treatment of the large database in knowledge discovery 2\ The temporal complexity includes the following costs  Construction of the attribute’s clusters  Building the fuzzy lattice For cluster’s construction, the complexity of fuzzy clustering algorithms is about 2 NC O where N corresponds to database table records number and C is the maximum number of clusters. For fuzzy lattice construction, temporal complexity of lattice construction algorithm is about 2 N O  IX  C OMPARISON WITH OTHER APPROACHES  The approach that we propose in this paper offers a set of knowledge. The number of rules is really defined by the enduser. Indeed, in the first step of our approach, the user must specify the number of clusters to generate by FCM algorithm to classify his data Example In our case, the user specified a number = 3 for the attribute Salary and a number = 2 for the attribute Age Consequently we obtain 5 clusters  In our approach, each cluster corresponds to a predicate The lattice constructs, will be a lattice with N levels, N is equal to the number of clusters. By definition of the lattice level 0 and level N contain 1 only node. The Level i contains a number of node equal to the number of overlapping between i clusters. This number will be equal to the maximum to C i N  The rules are generated by level: of the level i at the level i+1. A rule is defined of a node of level i towards a node of level i+1. The maximum number of rules which can be generated is, in consequence, equal to C i N  C i N 1   We have N levels in the lattice The maximum Number of rules  1 0 N i i  C i N  C i N 1   Example In our case N=5 Let us calculate the maximum number of nodes for each level The level 0 contains 1 node. The level N contains 1 node C 0 5 1 \(level 0 C 1 5 5  \(level 1 C 2 5 10 \(level 2 C 3 5 10 \(level  3 C 4 5 5 \(level 4 C 5 5 1 \(level 5    Let us calculate the maximum number of rules which can be generated  level 0 -> level 1 :   1*5 =    5 rules   \(maximum level 1 -> level 2 :   5*10 = 50 rules  \(maximum level 2 -> level 3 : 10*10 =100 rules  \(maximum level 3 -> level 4 : 10* 5 =    50 rules \(maximum In conclusion, we will have to the maximum 205 rules  As we show, what is important is that in our approach this number of generated rules, is independent of the size of the data. It rather depends on the number of generated clusters by the phase of classification. This number of clusters is given in entry by the user and it is the user who defines the linguistic labels for his clusters Let's note that another solution can be possible, is to use an algorithm of classification that didn't have like entry the number of clusters generated: in this case, the algorithm proposes the best classification for the set of data and the user specifies the linguistic labels for every class The comparison with the existing approaches can be made another level, indeed the algorithms proposed don’t take into account any semantics of the data, and to our knowledge these approaches don't treat the problem of knowledge utilization. All the researchers focused themselves on the reduction of the set of rules of a variety of hundreds of rules, by proposing the concept of metadata, or on the method of visualization of this great number of rules Our principle in this approach is to propose an extraction of knowledge based on the ties semantics of the data which is in our opinion more interesting, that the one existing which bases on the form \(syntax\jects To our opinion, it is not a question to compare the results according to the number of generated rules which is distinctly lower in our case, obtained in the other approaches and those obtained in our approach. Rather it is necessary to see the degree of utilisability of generated knowledge. Indeed what it is the interest to propose several approaches of knowledge extractions, whereas the user cannot benefit to better exploit these gigantic data In this approach we proposed different views according to which the user can exploit his data. In addition the fact to allow the user to choose attributes to classify and the numbers of generated clusters allows the user according to his needs to fix these choices. Indeed, the user can \(1\ apply any classification algorithm, and \(2\ate the maximum of knowledge on its initial data set:  it’s enough to modify the choice of the classification criteria. These criteria can be chosen by the user like parameters of entry according to the importance of the attribute in its applicability X  C ONCLUSION  In this paper, we presented a new approach that permits to extract knowledge combining classification and FCA methods. Generally, the researchers in this field use FCA based on Lattice theory or classification. All these methods generate a big number of association rules that are not easily assimilated by the human brain 
133 
 


To resolve this problem, we proposed a new KDD model. It consists of two steps: the first organizes the database records in homogeneous clusters having common properties which permit to deduce the data’s semantic. This step consists of TAH’s and MTAH generation of relieving attributes. The second permits to Discovering Knowledge. It consists to deduce the Fuzzy  Cluster Lattice corresponding to MTAH lattice generated in the first step, then traverse this lattice to extract the Meta Knowledge \( Set of fuzzy associations meta-rules on the clusters \, and in end deduce the rules modeling the Knowledge \(Set of fuzzy associations rules on the attributes\While basing on the hierarchical structure offered by the lattices, we proceed to discover the Knowledge in a hierarchical way. Thus, according to the degree of detail required by the user, this approach proposes a level of knowledge and different views of this knowledge Moreover, this solution is extensible; the user is able to choose the fuzzy method of classification according to the domain of his data and his needs This solution reduced considerably the number of generated rules, offered a better interpretation of the data and optimized both the space memory and the execution time As futures perspectives of this work, we mention 1\o test our approach on several the large data set, and 2\ to define a new intelligent method of evaluation of requests which takes into account the Meta knowledge and/or the knowledge base generated by our KDD model XI  R EFERENCES  1  P. Berkhin, “Survey of clustering data mining techniques“, Technical report, Accrue Software, 2002 2  M. Zaki, “Mining Non-Redundant Association Rules”, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, No 9, 2004, p. 223–248 3  G. Stumme, R.Taouil, Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, and     L. Lakhal Intelligent structuring and reducing of association rules with formal concept analysis”, Proceedings of KI’2001 Conference, Vienna Austria, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2174, SpringerVerlag, September 2001, p. 335–350 4  N. Pasquier “Data Mining : Algorithmes d'Extraction et de Réduction des Règles d'Association dans les Bases de Données”, Thèse Département d’Informatique et Statistique, Faculté des Sciences Economiques et de Gestion, Lyon, 2000 5  R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and Swami A., “Mining Association Rules between sets of items in large Databases”, Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conference on Management of Data, Washington USA, June 1993, p. 207-216 6  R. Agrawal, and R. Skirant. “Fast algoritms for mining association rules”. In Proceedings of the 20th Int'l Conference on Very Large Databases, pages 478-499, June 1994 7  N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R.Taouil, and L. Lakhal,          “ Efficient Mining of Association Rules Using Closed Itemset Lattices Information Systems Journal, vol. 24, no 1, 1999, p. 25-46 8  M. J. Zaki, and C. J. Hsiao, “ CHARM : An Efficient Algorithm for Closed Itemset Mining ”, Proceedings of the 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, Arlington, April 2002, p. 34-43 9  G. Stumme, R. Taouil, Bastide Y., Pasquier N., and L. Lakhal, “Fast Computation of Concept Lattices Using Data Mining Techniques BOUZEGHOUB M., KLUSCH M., NUTT W., SATTLER U., Eds Proceedings of 7th Intl. Workshop on Knowledge Representation Meets Databases \(KRDB’00\Berlin, Germany, 2000, p. 129-139 10  G. Stumme, R.Taouil, Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, and     L. Lakhal Computing Iceberg Concept Lattices with TITANIC”, J. on Knowledge and Data Engineering \(KDE\ vol. 2, no 42, 2002, p. 189222 11  S. Ben Tekaya, S. Ben Yahia, and Y. Slimani. “Algorithme de construction d`un treillis des concepts formels et de détermination des générateurs minimaux”, ARIMA journal, Novembre 2005, Numéro spécial CARI'04, pages: 171-193, 2005 12  T. Hamrouni, S. Ben Yahia, and Y. Slimani. “Prince : Extraction optimisée des bases génériques  de règles sans calcul de fermetures In Proceedings of the Intl. INFORSID Conference, Editions Inforsid Grenoble, France, pages : 353--368, 24-27 May 2005 13  B. Ganter, and R. Wille, Formal Concept Analysis: mathematical foundations. \(translated from the German by Cornelia Franzke Springer-Verlag, Berlin-Hei delberg 1999 14  T.Thanh, H.Siu Cheung, and C. Tru Hoang, “A Fuzzy FCA-based Approach to Conceptual Clustering for Automatic Generation of Concept Hierarchy on Uncertainty Data.” ,CLA 2004, pp. 1–12 ISBN 80-248-0597-9 15  L. Zadeh. Fuzzy sets. Inform ation and Control, \(69\338-353, June 1965 16  M. Sassi, M., A. Grissa Touzi, and H. Ounelli, “ “Interpretting Fuzzy Clustering Results based on Fuzzy Formal Concept Analyis”, IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems. Imperial College London, UK, 2007 17  A. Grissa Touzi, M. Sassi, and H. Ounelli,  “Using Formal Concept Analysis for Flexible Querying Optimization”, 23nd International Conference on Computers and Their  Applications, \(CATA’08 Mexico, Avril 2008 18  A. Grissa Touzi, M. Sassi, and H. Ounelli, “An innovative contribution to flexible query through the fusion of conceptual clustering, fuzzy logic, and formal concept analysis”, International Journal of Computers and Their Applications. Volume. 16, N°. 4, pp 220-233, December, 2009 19  M. Sassi, A. Grissa Touzi, and H. Ounelli, “A Fuzzy Linguistic Database Summarization Approach”, Fuzzy Systems Conference IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems.   Hong Kong, Juin 2008 20  J.C,  Bezdeck,  R.Ehrlich,  and  W.Full,  "FCM: The Fuzzy  C-Means Clustering Algorithm", Computers and Geoscience, vol. 10, no. 2-3 pp. 191–203, 1984 21  N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R.Tou il, and L.Lakhal, “Pruning closed itemset lattices for association rules”, Proceedings of 14th International Conference Bases de Données Avancées, Hammamet Tunisia, 26–30 October 1998, p. 177–196 22  M. J. Zaki, “Generating Non-Redundant Association Rules Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,Boston, MA, August 2000, p 34-43 23  Y. Bastide, R.Taouil, N. Pasquier, G. Stumme, and L.Lakhal Mining frequent patterns with counting inference”, SIGKDD Explorations, vol. 2, no 2, 2000, p. 66-75 24  B. Ganter, “Two basics algorithms in concept analysis”, Technical report, Darmstadt, 1984 
134 
 


  10 assume there is only one right answer  225  Remains objective so as not to be hinde red by irrelevant, outside influences Coaches and Mentors 225  Coaches and mentors team members and less experienced systems engineers to develop the breadth and depth of their competencies by giving specific positive and negative feedback for developmental purposes 225  Recognizes \223high potential\224 individuals by understanding and identifying the presence of skills and traits needed to be successful in the field  225  Challenges individuals to do their best work by giving assignments that build their capabilities  225  Asks questions that challenge assump tions, validate conclusions, and explore thought processes  225  Promotes a team culture that places a gr eater priority on the performance of the system than the performance of its subsystems Delegates \225  Delegates responsibility and authority to the lowest possible levels while retaining control of subsystem requireme nts and system integration functions 225  Builds confidence among team member s by delegating responsibility and decision-making authority to subsystem leads and then accepting the decisions they make without resistance or second-guessing  Ensures Resources are Available 225  Ensures that the team has the right tools, knowledge, and resources in order to get the job done 225  Keeps abreast of current analytical tools and models by knowing where to find them, when to apply them, and how to use them 225  Utilizes data archiving tools and processes to organize, simplify, and distribute information effectively.  Ensures that the information team members use to make decisions and coordinate activities is reliable and trustworthy.  Uses formal channels of communication to place reasonable limits on the number of people from whom information is gathered  Table 7 Attitudes and Attributes Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Remains Inquisitive and Curious 225  Is naturally inquisitive and curious, and is largely driven by that curiosity.  Is fearless and has an authentic and persistent desire to understand how everything works and how it relates to everything else.  Can quickly connect dots and identify weak spots 225  Seeks to understand the big picture and interrelationship of the parts.  Moves without boundaries from one topic to another, to discover what else needs to be known, what might be overlooked 225  Actively explores the technical issues, concepts, and lexicon of subsystem disciplines that are less familiar and comfortable Seeks Information and Uses the Art of Questioning 225  Asks difficult questions of discipline or subsystem experts regarding boundaries conditions, and assumptions to ensure continuity across all systems and to ensure that the proposed solution is an integrated solution and fundamentally makes sense 225  Asks questions, at appropriate times and in various ways, to ensure consistency of answers and to reveal if others unde rstand what constitutes system success Probes an area if inconsistency is revealed 225  Asks questions artfully.  Uses a series of questions that build upon each other to help identify the root of a problem or solutions 225  Asks \223Why?\224  \223Why did we decide to do it that way?\224  \223What were the alternative solutions, and did we do trade studies that helped us determine why this was the best solution?\224 225  Confident in knowing what they do know a nd willing to state it and admit what is not known; seeks specialists to fill in missing pieces 


  11 Advances Ideas 225  Restates, reframes, and clarifies others 222 questions to ensure understanding among group members by questioning and measuring an idea against system requirements 225  Fosters open two-way discussions.  Brainstorms with others to solicit various viewpoints.  Allows and encourages people to state opinions while listening for connections and disconnects in logic 225  Engages the team by explaining how th e solution or approach was reached Gains Respect Credibility, and Trust 225  Uses respectful tone, words and body language 225  Follows through on commitments and serves as an advocate for the team 225  Demonstrates understanding and appreciation of the challenges others face 225  Earns the respect of team members by demonstrating personal integrity Conducts business in an honest and tr ustworthy manner by avoiding deception and treating team members fairly 225  Sees trust of self and others as a perv asive element required to achieve success 225  Earns trust and respect of others by having a strong understanding of the system\222s technical requirements and assigns work based on the individual\222s skills and abilities.  Understands that not everyone is an \223A player\224 225  Lets team members do their job.  Tells them what has to be done, but not how to do it Possesses SelfConfidence 225  Willing to speak up, regardless of who is present to ensure the most technically sound decision is made for the good of the overall system 225  Demonstrates a positive attitude and exhibits confidence 225  Sits back and listens to group discussions while building models and connections and/or identifying disconnects Has a Comprehensive View 225  Takes responsibility for the whole life-cycle the whole system and all its parts Understands the whole job and that it is never done 225  Strikes a balance between what must happen to obtain success and what must not happen to avert failure Possesses a Positive Attitude and Dedication to Mission Success 225  Encourages a success oriented environment by displaying passion, excitement and enthusiasm about the work and th e challenges faced by the system 225  Is dedicated to mission success by worki ng until the job is successfully completed even if that means working long hours to ensure the job is done 225  Creates a \223can do\224 atmosphere by providi ng positive feedback and is empathetic toward team members.  Encourages others with their \223can do\224 attitude Is Aware of Personal Limitations 225  Seeks guidance from experts.  Knows what they know and what they don\222t know and seeks others to fill in missing data 225  Acknowledges technical limitations to others.  Does this with ease Adapts to Change and Uncertainty 225  Presses on with the project and ensures that the implications of change are addressed throughout the entire system in the face of ever-changing requirements  225  May make decisions with incomplete or imperfect data 225  Understands that change is inevitable and takes appropriate actions quickly.  May assemble other technical experts to brains torm various avenues and approaches to support the change 225  Remains calm under pressure. Looks at things pragmatically and understands what's going on. Doesn't over-react Uses Intuition Sensing 225  Uses both intuition and sensing when evaluating a problem or making a decision Does not rely solely on data.  May use of gut feeling" if data is inconclusive 225  Moves concepts and ideas easily through artificial boundaries.  Uses intuition and the senses to penetrate the system and discover or synthesize solutions to a problem Is Able to Deal  with Politics, Financial Issues, and Customer Needs 225  Is politically savvy.  Understands the larger forces at work.  Studies the political and financial issues and impacts 225  Shares and uses knowledge and expertise that shapes the political and financial environment in positive ways 


  12 225  Balances tasks and deliverables against resources and designs processes that save time and money 225  Possesses the ability to in terface with the customer and successfully lead discussions to create an understanding of system status across various levels, both up, down and across  Table 8 Communication Theme, Competencies, Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Listens Effectively and Translates Information 225  Sees the system from various perspectives Listens and acts as translator between parties \(subsystems, Project, vendors and other customers necessary information from others 225  Communicates project status to management and other key internal and external stakeholders.  Clearly communicates requirements to providers of the subsystem elements 225  Is an excellent listener.  Is keenly aware of what is being said and of omissions Listens for themes that continue to surface.  Then there comes a point where the SE will begin to penetrate by asking questions.  If questions are not adequately answered, the SE will begin to focus on the potential soft spot 225  Listens to identify critical elements or parameters of the problem.  Listens for information that leads to connections be tween system elements and information that disrupts connections 225  Clarifies and simplifies ideas under discussion by offering and/or requesting summation" statements Communicates Effectively Through Personal Interaction 225  Consistently communicates progress and gains understanding from others on what challenges and successes are faced by the systems design.  May meet face to face on a daily, sometimes hourly basis to ensure everyone is in the loop understand the systems requirements 225  Prefers personal interaction over e-mail Uses face-to-face interaction as a primary communication channel to hear concerns, share information, build rapport, create buy-in and create relationships within a team 225  Communicates in a clear and concise manner 225  Facilitates effective communication in t eam meetings and throughout the project by regularly interacting with people on the team and getting them together to ensure everyone is up-to-date  Facilitates an Environment of Open and Honest Communication 225  Welcomes divergent opinions by creating an atmosphere where team members feel the freedom to openly express their opinions.  Encourages and respects differing opinions in order to drive convergence on decisions 225  Promotes open, honest communication by asking questions, protecting proprietary information, protecting minority opinions, and incorporating valuable ideas that are shared in the system design Identifies and takes steps to remove communication barriers that are unique to particular individuals or groups 225  Patiently listens to each of the team memb ers/discipline experts in order to assure that everyone gets heard--that all divers e and dissenting opinions are considered Listens to all who want to speak, does not communicate irritation and does not shut people down 225  Effectively facilitate teams, meetings and disagreements.  Asks clarifying probing and penetrating questions to ensure all information is out on the table 225  Demonstrates accessibility and approach ability by having an open door policy  Uses Visuals to Communicate Complex Interactions 225  Graphically pulls together ideas, issues and observations to better understand and explain all systems and interfaces and to solve complex problems.  Uses visuals such as Venn diagrams, models, pictures, charts, metaphors, archetypes, and other relevant representations, to communicate complex problems or to display the 


  13 interconnections of sub-elements 225  Keeps everyone involved by keeping accurate records of big and small picture aspects affecting the system and distributing information in advance Communicates Through Story Telling and Analogies 225  Uses personnel experiences to build conn ections and provide explanations by using engineering and non-engineering stories and analogies.  For example creates analogies from histor ical events, everyday experiences and \223life lessons\224 to better explain concepts and ideas to others 225  Shares experiences and \223lessons learned\224 with others to support future systems design Is Comfortable with Making Decisions 225  Makes decisions in a confident and timely manner when appropriate \226 with or without complete or optimal information \226 allowing team members to maintain forward progress on their assigned tasks 225  Carefully monitors the impact of deci sions on system performance, backtracking and changing direction if necessary.  When the team's forward progress is not at stake, the SE may choose to postpone decision-making and engage in more detailed analysis 225  Stays on point until ideas are heard, rec ognizes when enough data is gathered to make a decision, and then moves on. Willing to revisit decision if new data warrants it 225  Makes difficult or unpopular decisions, keeping the best interest of the system in mind, weighing the potential risks to team cohesion and interpersonal relationships against system performance  Table 9 Problem Solving and Systems Thi nking Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Identifies the Real Problem 225  Identifies the critical problem to be solved by asking questions and identifying the key requirements 225  Recognizes what is technically right among many good ideas by viewing a problem across system boundaries and co mparing each design to the other 225  Frames the problem in a logical way and identifies resources required to solve the problem efficiently 225  Solves problems with the team by listening for the issue, pinpoints problem areas makes recommendations, and then steps out.  Avoids side trips and unnecessary minutiae and focuses on important issues Assimilates Analyzes, and Synthesizes Data 225  Assimilates and distills large quantities of data and ensures all of the data is on the table to solve a problem or make a decision.  Ensures decisions made are supported with data 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters, prioritizes the parameters, then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution 225  Has the ability to rapidly recall data 225  Approaches and solves problems in a systematic manner by using tools processes, procedures in order to find solutions Thinks Systemically 225  Looks across the entire system and facilita tes trades and compromises to get a balanced design.  Ensures that the integrity of the system as a whole does not suffer because of over optimizing any of the smaller pieces 225  Sees multi-view representations of sy stems to understand how the pieces fit together and interact. Visualizes systems in 3-D. Draws a picture in his or her mind, or on paper 225  Is able to look deep enough into a problem without losing focus on the big picture.  Sees the big picture while at the same time demonstrating an overall awareness of the details 225  Breaks the problem down into smaller manageable parts 225  Understands how the system works, what it was designed to do, its functions and 


  14 requirements. Is able to analyze the systems data. Traces implications of a problem in a step-by-step manner across the system Has the Ability to Find Connections and Patterns Across the System 225  Integrates and provides a connection between the various engineering segments of the project.  Is able to identify c onnections from separate elements of the project that others would not notice and brings these connections to the team's attention as a means to assist in solving underlying issues 225  Examines and explores the implications of how technical decisions being made affect the bigger system architecture Sees the ripple effect of changing requirements or making changes to any element of the system 225  Able to see system interfaces. Identifie s the impact that changes to one subsystem are having--or might have--on other sub-systems.  Locates and corrects sub-system 'disconnects' or 'inconsistencies' that are having a negative impact on system performance Sets Priorities 225  Sets technical priorities in order to maintain the balance for the problems at hand while achieving system requirements Keeps the Focus on Mission Requirements 225  Is focused on developing a system that meets the end-item product objectives and does not lose sight of this while integr ating the pieces of the system into the whole system 225  Studies, understands, and articulates the project\222s overall objectives.  Knows what the system must do and be in order to accomplish its objectives 225  Sets technical priorities with principal investigator and subsystem engineers to achieve system requirements Possesses Creativity and Problem Solving Abilities 225  Enjoys and is energized by fully concentrating on a problem for long stretches until solutions are formed and implemented. Possesses passion for problem solving 225  Takes the initiative to solve the problems 225  Solves problems with the team by listening to the issues, pinpointing problem areas, making technical recommendations; may help implement the solution 225  Does not adhere to rigid rules or formulas for system design, but may create new ideas and approaches that are necessary to deal successfully with system constraints Validates Facts Information and Assumptions 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters.  Prioritizes the parameters then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution by examin ing system and subsystem operations in minute detail.  Recognizing that seemingly minor miscalculations can lead to signifi cant problems in system performance 225  Questions all assumptions that go into the design 225  Looks for, and anticipates, problems or issu es in the system in places that may not be covered with the right kind of data to make a decision 225  Looks for answers that may not be readily apparent from just looking at the data alone.  Does not rely solely on data Remains Open Minded and Objective 225  Receptive to hearing diverse varying opinions.  Is willi ng to re-think/re-work an issue or to change direction when new information or a better idea is presented 225  Evaluates decisions objectively.  Maintains flexibility by avoiding 'ownership' of a particular strategy or point of view Draws on Past Experiences 225  Draws from his or her hands-on experiences to develop the proper feel for succeeding on future projects, knowing when something looks "ri ght" versus "not even close\223 from past successes and failures 225  Solves problems with a balance of innovative developments and proven heritage products.  May rely on experience and ex isting design as guides, but sees each opportunity as a canvas to design new solutions 225  Uses experience, history, intuition, and se nsing in order to assess the situation and develop a solution Manages Risk 225  Uses past experiences to anticipate pot ential problems that may impact system performance 225  Identifies the key indicators and methods of testing for each type of problem 


  15 225  Develops mitigation strategi es for addressing the problems, should they arise 225  Is risk savvy. Understands that risk is perpetual and needs to be managed  Table 10 Technical Acumen Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Possesses Technical Competence and Has Comprehensive Previous Experience 225  Shares his or her project experience, a nd acts as a reliable resource to the team and serves as the \221go to\222 person 225  Demonstrates the depth of technical knowledge and expertise necessary to perform, manage, and coordinate work-related activities 225  Possesses a strong, fundamental understanding of engineering principles along with a cross-disciplinary background 225  Engages specialists for their t echnical knowledge and abilities 225  Demonstrates ability to focus on details while keeping the big picture in mind.  Is able to shift focus between the two with ease 225  Uses an iterative process to refine the design to accomplish the system requirements Learns from Successes and Failures 225  Shares with others lessons learned.  Lessons come from a strong base of engineering experiences acr oss the full life-cycle 225  Documents and studies the successes and failures of both the current and previously developed systems.  Uses this information to make decisions that reduce risk and maximize the probability of success 225  Is willing to learn from past failures as well as successes.  Understands both are important  


  16 Table 11 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator \(MBTI Mental Processes and Orientations [25 Natural energy orientation   Extraverted \(E Face is directed towards the OUTER world of activities, excitements, people, and things 200  Instinctively search for facts and logic in a decision situation 200  Act first, think/reflect later 200  Feel deprived when cutoff from interaction with the outside world 200  Usually open to and motivated by outside world of people and things 200  Enjoy wide variety and change in people relationships Intraverted \(I Face is directed inward to the INNER world of thoughts, interests, ideas, and imagination 200  Think/reflect first, then act 200  Regularly require an amount of "private time" to recharge batteries 200  Motivated internally, mind is sometimes so active it is "closed" to outside world 200  Prefer one-to-one communication and relationships Way of perceiving or understanding and taking in information  Sensing \(S The Sensing side of our brain notices the sights sounds, smells and all the sensory details of the PRESENT It categorizes, organizes, records and stores the specifics from the here and now. It is REALITY based, dealing with "what is." It also provides the specific details of memory and recollections from PAST events 200  Mentally live in the Now, attending to present opportunities 200  Using common sense and creating practical solutions is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall is rich in detail of facts and past events 200  Best improvise from past experience 200  Like clear and concrete information; dislike guessing when facts are "fuzzy Intuitive \(N The Intuitive side of our brain seeks to understand interpret and form OVERALL patterns of all the information that is collected and records these patterns and relationships. It speculates on POSSIBILITIES  including looking into and forecasting the FUTURE  It is imaginative and conceptual 200  Mentally live in the Future, attending to future possibilities 200  Using imagination and creating/inventing new possibilities is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall emphasizes patterns, contexts and connections 200  Best improvise from theoretical understanding 200  Comfortable with ambiguous, fuzzy data and with guessing its meaning Way of forming judgments and making choices and decisions  Thinking \(T The Thinking side of our brain analyzes information in a DETACHED objective fashion. It operates from factual principles, deduces and forms conclusions systematically. It is our logical nature  200  Naturally notices tasks and work to be accomplished 200  Easily able to provide an objective and critical analysis 200  Accept conflict as a natural, normal part of relationships with people Feeling \(F The Feeling side of our brain forms conclusions in an ATTACHED and somewhat global manner, based on likes/dislikes, impact on others, and human and aesthetic values. It is our subjective nature 200  Instinctively employ personal feelings and impact on people in decision situations 200  Naturally sensitive to people\222s needs and reactions 200  Naturally seek consensus and popular opinions 200  Unsettled by conflict; have almost a toxic reaction to disharmony Action orientation towards the outside world     Judging \(J A Judging style approaches the outside world WITH A PLAN and is oriented towards organizing one's surroundings, being prepared, making decisions and reaching closure and completion 200  Plan many of the details in advance before moving into action 200  Focus on task-related action; complete meaningful segments before moving on 200  Work best and avoid stress when keep ahead of deadlines 200  Naturally use targets, dates and standard routines to manage life Perceiving \(P A Perceiving style takes the outside world AS IT COMES and is adopting and adapting, flexible, openended and receptive to new opportunities and changing game plans 200  Comfortable moving into action without a plan plan on-the-go 200  Like to multitask, have variety, mix work and play 200  Naturally tolerant of time pressure; work best close to the deadlines 200  Instinctively avoid commitments which interfere with flexibility, freedom and variety 


  17 Figure 1 MBTI Types Occurring in SEs Studied Across the Agency                                    Figure 2 Preliminary MBTI Results for JPL\222s Highly Regarded Systems E\ngineers   ESFP Performer/Entertainer   ESTP Maneuverer/Promoter   ENTP Inventor/Improvisor    ENTJ Director/Commandant   ISFP Performer/Composer   ISTP Maneuverer/Operator  INTP Inventor/Designer   INTJ Foreseer/Mobilizer   ESFJ Provider/Caretaker   ESTJ Overseer/Supervisor   ENFP Proponent/Messenger   ENFJ Foreseer/Mobilizer  ISFJ Provider/Nourisher   ISTJ Overseer/Inspector   INFP Proponent/Advocate  INFJ Foreseer/Developer NF 3 NT 56 SJ 15 SP 26 SE MBTI types represented across the agency 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


