Performance Metric Issues for Space Time Adaptive Processing Methods Peter Zulch Air Force Research Laboratory 525 Brooks Rd Rome NY 13441-4505 315-330-7861 peter.zulch@rl.af.mil J Scott Goldstein Science Applications International Corp 1710 SAIC Drive M/S 1-4-1 Mclean VA 22102 703-676-8340 jay.s.goldstein\(saic.com Abstract Space Time Adaptive Processing was introduced to the radar community in the 1970's as a multi-dimensional filtering method 
to discriminate moving targets from clutter when observed from an air-borne/space-borne multichannel phased array radar Numerous variants of this filtering technique have been developed and are often compared to some baseline performance with respect to output signal to interference plus noise ratio or minimum mean square error Under clairvoyant conditions these metrics have a direct relation to probability of detection However under 
non-clairvoyant conditions such as with recorded data probability of detection is not measured directly and secondary metrics such as signal to interference plus noise ratio and minimum mean square error are used to measure performance This paper attempts to show a case where using a metric such as minimum mean square error can indicate erroneous favorable performance 12 TABLE OF 
CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 STAP FOUNDATION 2 3 REDUCED RANK PROCESSING 4 4 PERFORMANCE RESULTS  5 5 CONCLUSIONS 6 REFERENCES 7 BIOGRAPHY 7 there are associated ground clutter returns that can diminish the detection of the moving target as well as the potential for wideband jamming A mock 2 dimensional space-time spectrum of recorded 
data from a notional air-borne or space-borne phased array is shown in Figure 1 Note that the target response is obscured by mainbeam clutter if the returns were projected onto the spatial axis or masked by the jamming energy if projected along the Doppler axis However if one considers both the spatial and temporal dimensions at the same time the target 
becomes discernable from the interference in a 3-D space j I QV-s 1 INTRODUCTION One goal of historical and modern air and space-borne Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR platforms is to perform Airborne Moving Target Indication AMTI and Ground Moving Target Indication GMTI This paper considers a moving down-looking multichannel phased array emitting a pulse-Doppler waveform 
Because the platform is looking down towards the ground 1 1 1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 
IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper  1425 Version 5 Updated 2007:12:04 Figure 1 Space-Time spectrum illustration of returns from an air/space-borne phased array radar There are a host of classic journal papers that introduce the theory of adaptive arrays to address the process of adjusting 
a set of complex weights that when applied to the received data mitigate interference and maximize the output Signal to Interference plus Noise Ration SINR 1 2 3 4 While in the first two papers 1],[2 considered only spatial adaptivity Reed Brennan and Mallett 3 4 considered adaptivity in both space and time or Space Time Adaptive 1 
Fi I 40 


Processing STAP to address the problem depicted in Figure 1 They also showed a proportional relationship between output SINR and Probability of Detection Pd hence maximizing output SINR maximizes Pd of a target Equally maximizing the output SINR minimizes the output Minimum Mean Square Error MMSE 9 That is the error between the filtered target return and the desired target return The caveat to this observation is that the assumed interference statistics are Wide Sense Stationary Gaussian WSSG and that the covariance matrix of the interference is known Reed et al 4 considered the case where the interference covariance matrix is unknown and needs to be estimated from secondary data It is further assumed that this training data follows the same statistics as the sample of data being interrogated for the presence of a target the data is Independent and Identically Distributed IID This method is known as Sample Matrix Inversion SMI A loss of less than 3dB in SINR is expected if at least 2  DOF number of secondary training samples are used Here DOF stands for Degree of Freedom and is equal to the number of spatial channels times the number of pulses transmitted For a large system such as a space system employing potentially hundreds of spatial subarrays each connected to a receiver and recording device and transmitting several hundred pulses the DOF can be quite large This is a tremendous requirement on the needed number of secondary samples and the assumption that they be IID A flurry of activity in the STAP area was spawned in the early 1990's where attention was paid to the actual implementation of STAP techniques Some notable but by no means complete references examples can be found in 5 6 7 8 Two general areas of research since the early 90's focused on the impact of real world data effects and reduced DOF methods The former issue explores the impacts of environmental conditions such as dense target environments non-IID training data clutter discretes and non-homogeneous training data The later area addressed the issue of being able to adaptively support large DOF systems with limited training data and limited computational horsepower As new STAP techniques have emerged the goal has always been to maximize Pd of a target which according to 3 is directly proportional to maximizing filter output SINR and minimizing MMSE However as mentioned previously the condition of training data being WSSG IID and in infinite supply or the interference plus noise covariance matrix is known is typically not met when implementing STAP methods on real systems with recorded data Under these conditions performance metrics such as SINR and MMSE deteriorate 3  This paper addresses the issue of the appropriateness of using filter output MMSE using least squares 19 as a metric for measuring the performance of STAP techniques under various conditions of processor rank and sample support assuming only one data set is available as would be with a real ISR sensor Section 2 will layout the necessary mathematical background leading to metric definitions In Section 3 reduced rank processors are defined which are used in later performance comparisons In Section 4 results using a notional radar example are presented indicating the issues of using MMSE as a performance metric Concluding remarks will be made in Section 5 2 STAP FOUNDATION In this section a foundation of processing and nomenclature for STAP is given with the purpose of furthering the discussion of performance metrics As mentioned previously one area of interest especially in data starved scenarios is the area of reduced rank signal processing These methods attempt to perform the optimum compression of the interference sub-space while preserving the target return with limited computation and sample support In this section a Generalized Sidelobe Canceller GSC is described which forms the basis for the reduced rank processing methods to be discussed in Section 3 More on the GSC and its application to reduced rank processing can be found in 9 and 10 however will be summarized here General Parameters The following notation will be utilized in this paper K equi-spaced receive elements/sub-apertures J number of transmit pulses xE CKJxl,complex received data vector n E CKJXl complex noise vector s 1e C jxl target spatial-temporal steering vector sd c KJX desired look direction spatialtemporal steering vector Let the received data vector from a single range ring or time sample be defined as x ast n 1 where a is some complex target amplitude The vector x is in Vandermond form where the N channel returns from each transmitted pulse are stacked upon each other in column vector format 2 


Direct Form Processor A constrained beamformer may be applied to the vector x as in Figure 2 to yield the output y y=W x=aw HS+wH n 2 maximizing the output SINR while maintaining unity gain in the desired look direction the assumed constraint here x w y Figure 2 Direct form processor with a constrained Wiener filter Here the constrained adaptive beamformer is given as w e CKJX1 and  represents the Hermitian transpose operator One form of this constrained weight vector often referred to as the Wiener Filter is 11 w  Rxx Sd sd Rxx sd 3 Partitioned Form Processor A portioned form processor is shown in Figure 3 and is often referred to as a Generalized Sidelobe Canceller GSC This form of processor implements a non adaptive beamfomer Sd in the top path and an adaptive unconstrained N X 1 Wiener filter in the bottom path WGSC Here N  KJ 1 and the weight vector WGSC is defined as follows w gsc R r 6 The N x I vector d iS the cross correlation between the radar mainbeam output do  s H x and the noise subspace data vector x0  Bx This N x1 vector x0 represents the interference and signal contained in the sidelobes of the radar however contains no signal components in the mainbeam direction The N x KJ signal blocking matrix B is composed of any orthogonal basis set for the nullspace of vector Sd Here the matrix R XX C KJxKJ is the true analytic covariance matrix for a single range ring data sample x Typically the true analytic covariance is not known and a maximum likelihood estimate of Rxx must be obtained from training data This training data must be Independent and Identically Distributed IID and typically must contain 2KJ to 3KJ training samples 4 The IID requirement is difficult to meet in heterogeneous environments in which most sensors fly Later in this paper the impact of insufficient sample support will be demonstrated To quantify the performance of the processor in 2 and 3 the Minimum Mean Square Error MMSE is defined as MMSE  E LyI  WHRXXw x Iy Figure 3 Partitioned form processor with an unconstrained Wiener filter The equivalent direct form optimum weight vector as defined in 3 can be expressed as 4 w  Sd-B Wgsc 7 The resulting output SINR after adaptive filtering is given by SINR  H2 RH awHRx 5 The SINR may be normalized by dividing by the Signal to Noise Ratio SNR in the absence of clutter and interference and becomes SINR Loss SINRL The associated MMSE for the portioned form or GSC processor is given as MMSE  2 r R1 r gsc 07i rx0d0 x0x0 rx0d0 8 where ad  E odo  The associated SINR for this processor is given as 3 


SINRgc  l 2 2 H RX1 070rxodo xo0xo rxodo lc2 MaSg MMSEgsc 9 Simple manipulation of 8 using 6 and 7 yields an equivalent direct form processor MMSE given in 4 9 3 REDUCED RANK PROCESSING As mentioned previously the IID nature of recorded data is typically not valid and data samples available for training an adaptive processor are typically less than the required 2KJ samples hence effecting adaptive processing performance One method of rectifying the problem is to use reduced dimension algorithms not exploiting all the available degrees of freedom in the data This usually comes with some performance penalty 6 Another approach is to consider the interference subspace of the full dimension problem and reduce its size compression in various ways so as to minimize the required sample support yet still yield acceptable or close to optimal performance This compression or termed subspace selection can conveniently take place in the lower portion of the portioned processor in Figure 3 The reader is referred to 9 10 12 13 14 however a summary is provided here Consider a unitary transformation operator U E CNxr that is applied to the output of signal blocking matrix as p  UHx0  10 The resulting GSC r X I reduced dimension Wiener filter is then given as rpd respectively Likewise wgsc can be converted to the direct form processor in 7 by substituting wgsc for wgsc  Principal Components One method of compressing the interference subspace or rank reduction is to select the Principals Components PC based on Eigen decomposition 15 16 17 For the reduced rank filter in 11 the transformation matrix U is formed from the r Eigen vectors corresponding to the r largest Eigen values 2  of the covariance matrix RX X I U  el...er]e CNxr 14 Here e1  eN correspond to the N eigenvectors of the covariance matrix RX 0 Cross Spectral Metric Another approach to an Eigen basis set selection for rank reduction is to select the r Eigen vectors based on the crossspectral energy The cross spectral energy is calculated with a term coined the Cross Spectral Metric CSM 13 CSM ed The r eigenvectors corresponding to the r largest cross spectral metric values are used to form the columns of U  The CSM technique attempts to maximize the output SINR by selecting the eigenvector basis that provides the maximum cross-spectral energy 15 wgsc  Rplrpd The transformed covariance R  E[pPH Crxr and cross correlation rpd  E[pdoJe crxl are given as Rpp UHRXox U and rpd  UH rx d x0d 1 1 matrix term Multistage Wiener Filter Another approach to rank reduction unlike the Eigen base approaches of the previous two methods is to form a recursion process in the lower path of the partitioned formed processor in Figure 3 This technique further decomposes the GSC Wiener filter wgsc via a series of orthogonal subspace projections to a series of nested scalar 12 Weiner filters or stages This method has been termed the Multistage Wiener Filter MWF 13 18 The number of r filters or r stages constitutes the rank of the processor Figure 4 shows an N stage MWF Note the extension developed in the lower branch of the partitioned processor 13 following the initial blocking matrix B in Figure 3 The performance metrics are similar to those found in 8 and 9 simply by replacing RX X and rXd by pp and 4 


d1 d n1 M u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Figure 4 A N stage Multistage Wiener Filter The new stage is initiated by determining the projection operator of the form 20 30 32 27 30 29 JNR dB 15 10 a 5 1 a 1 r_ mn 5-10-15-20 80 60 40 20 0 20 40 Azimuth Angle deg 60 80 rxid 16 The associated blocking matrix Bi is the null space of hi  Rank reduction is accomplished by truncating stages which removes basis vectors from the decomposition process Note that the MWF does not use an eigenvector basis hence an Eigen decomposition is never required a computational savings Furthermore the covariance matrix or its inverse never needs to be explicitly calculated hence further computational savings 4 PERFORMANCE RESULTS Thus far a set of STAP techniques particularly reduced rank STAP techniques have been defined as a baseline for performance comparison PCI CSM and MWF The intention of this section is to demonstrate issues that arise when comparing techniques through performance metric analysis under the conditions of varying sample support L and processor rank r Simulation A narrowband linear phased array example is considered for this performance comparison There are K  16 equally spaced at 1/2 wavelength spacing channels in azimuth 1 channel in elevation and J  1 pulse There are 5 wideband jammers with varying Jammer to Noise Ratios JNR impinging the array in the sidelobe patterns of the antenna pattern The jammer angles and JNR's are indicated in Figure 5 Figure 5 16 element phased array antenna pattern The 5 narrowband jammer azimuth angles are indicated by the vertical lines with Jammer to Noise Ratio JNR indicated above the line Processing Results Figure 6 shows the MMSE performance as defined in 4 under known covariance matrices for the three candidate techniques Note that each technique reaches the optimal performance limit at full rank It is clear that the MWF outperforms the Eigen based techniques 25 Full Rank Reterence PCI CSM Multi-Stage 20 15 m a I 5 5u 10 12 14 5 L Figure 6 conditions 8 Rank MMSE result under known covariance Figure 7 displays the MMSE result when an estimated covariance matrix is used in 4 For this example L 5*KJ=80 data samples were generated and used to estimate the covariance matrix This covariance matrix was used in 4 for Rxx and in the calculation of the adaptive weight vectorw This would be process to determine performance if only recorded data was available The 5 


I 20 15 I--1 m la 10 I MMSE 2N Samples Full Rank Ref PCI CSM Multi-Stage 6 8 Rank 10 12 14 Figure 8 MMSE result using as in Figure 7 however the spread of the results post rank 5 is larger creating another convergence region Also note that the full rank reference has decreased from that in Figure 7 6 U Sample Support Gain 4 6 8 Rank 10 12 14 Figure 9 MMSE result using an matrix with sample support L KJ 16 estimated covariance As sample support is reduced it is expected that the MMSE would increase because the covariance matrix is becoming more ill-conditioned and is not close to the true maximum likelihood estimate of the true covariance matrix Consider the result in Figure 8 when the sample support is reduced to L 2*KJ=32 25 number of support samples used for covariance estimation are well above the 2 K recommended by Reed et al 4 25r 15la 10 10 MMSE 5N Samples Full Rank Ref PCI CSM Multi-Stage The trend of decreasing MMSE with lowered sample support is further shown in Figure 9 Here the sample support is equal to the DOF of the problem 16 The gain in MMSE performance of 24.5 dB is observed from rank 1 to 5 and is attributed to the adaptive performance of the filtering techniques Furthermore there appears to be a gain in MMSE performance of 5 dB post rank 5 At first glance it appears that performance can be gained with lower sample support a counter intuitive result 25 20 15 2 4 6 8 Adaptive Gain 5 dB Low same general result displayed in Figure 8 Rank 10 12 14 1m O 10  Samples Full Rank Ref PCI CSM Multi-Stage 24.5 dB 5 Figure 7 MMSE result using an estimated covariance matrix with sample support L=5*KJ=80 The full rank reference result is plotted and as expected all techniques reach the full rank case however some spreading is observed in the MMSE result when the rank of the processor matches that of the interference r=5 and beyond 5 10 2 MMSE N an estimated covariance matrix with sample support L 2 KJ 32 The result in Figure 9 brings about an interesting question If one is faced with recorded data is the calculation of a performance metric such as MMSE an appropriate technique of accessing performance between various algorithms Obviously the result can give erroneous indications of future performance It will be future work to further investigate this problem and the root cause 5 CONCLUSIONS This paper considered the issue of measuring performance of STAP techniques when only recorded data is available Reduced rank techniques were used as the techniques of choice due to their robustness and ability to perform in reduced sample support conditions Two classes of techniques were considered those based on an Eigen decomposition and another based on a recursion form of the GSC MMSE performance was assessed under known and unknown covariance matrix conditions Results indicated that performance improves with a reduction of sample support used to estimate the covariance matrix Obviously this seems to be counter intuitive Further research will analyze these phenomena Note the 


REFERENCES 1 B Widrow P.E Mantey L.J Griffiths and B.B Goode Adaptive Antenna Systems Proceedings of the IEEE Vol 55 NO 12 pp 2143-2159 December 1967 2 S.P Applebaum Adaptive Arrays IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation Vol AP-24 No 5 pp 585-598 September 1976 3 L.E Brennan and I.S Reed Theory of Adaptive Radar IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Vol AES-9 No 2 pp 237-252 March 1973 4 I.S Reed J.D Mallett and L.E Brennan Rapid Convergence Rate in Adaptive Arrays IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Vol AEW-10 No 6 pp 853-863 November 1974 5 A.G Jaffer M.H Baker W.P Balance and J.R Staub Adaptive Space-time Processing Techniques for Airborne Radars Final Technical Report RL-TR-91162 AFRL Rome NY July 1991 6 J Ward Space-Time Adaptive Processing for Airborne Radar Tech Rep F19628-95-C-0002 MIT Lincoln Laboratory December 1994 7 R Klemm Space-Tiem Adaptive Procesing Principles and Applications Institution of Electrical Engineers London 1998 8 J.R Guerci Space-Tme Adaptive Processing for Radar Artech House Boston 2003 9 J S Goldstein and I.S Reed Performance Measures for Optimal Constrained Beamformers IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation Vol 45 No 1 January 1997 10 J.S Goldstein I.S Reed P.A Zulch Multistage Partially Adaptive STAP CFAR Detection Algorithm IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Vol 35 No 2 pp 645-661 April 1999 11 S.P Applebaum and D.J Chapman Adaptive Arrays with Main Beam Constraints IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propogation Vol AP-24 No 5 pp 650662 September 1976 12 P.A Zulch J S Goldstein J.R Guerci Comparison of Reduced Rank Signal Processing Techniques Proceedings of the 32nd Asilomar Conference on Signals Systems and Computers Pacific Grove CA November 1998 13 J S Goldstein and I.S Reed Theory of Partially Adaptive Radar IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Vol 33 No 4 October 1997 14 J S Goldstein S.M.Kogon I.S Reed and D.B.Williams Partially Adaptive Radar Signal Processing The Cross-spectral Approach Proceedings of the 29th Asilomar Conference on Signals Systems and Computers Vol 2 Pacific Grove CA pp 1383-1387 November 1995 15 A.M Haimovich and Y Bar Ness An Eigenanalysis Interference Canceler IEEE Transaction on Signal Processing Vol 39 No 1 pp 76-84 January 1991 16 B.D Van Veen Eigenstructure Based Partially Adaptive Array Design IEEE transactions on Antennas and Propagation Vol 36 No 3 pp 357-362 March 1988 17 I.P Kirsteins and D.W Tufts Adaptive Detection Using a Low Rank Approximation to a Data Matrix IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Vol 30 No 1 pp 55-67 January 1994 18 J S Goldstein I.S Reed and L.L Scharf A Multistage Representation of the Wiener Filter Based on Orthogonal Projections IEEE Transactions on Information Theory November 1998 19 S Haykin Adaptive Filter Theory Prentice Hall NJ 2002 BIOGRAPHY Scott Goldstein Dr Goldstein is a Vice President at SAIC and has over 20 years of experience in the fields of radar sonar communications navigation and imaging sensors He has performed fundamental research and development in the technical areas that support C31 and ISR functions He has also conceived designed and developed new programs within DARPA the national intelligence community and the individual military services that apply advanced technology to solve our nation's most difficult problems often in unexpected ways In his current position Dr Goldstein is the Chief Scientist for the Intelligence Security and Technology Group at SAIC consisting of 11,000 employees and generating annual revenues of approximately 4B Dr Goldstein also provides technical leadership in a number of programs developing advanced sensor systems and novel mission capabilities Dr Goldstein is a SAIC Technical Fellow and the chairman of the SAIC Tech Fellow Council which serves as the premier S&T advisory board for this Fortune 500 Company of 44,000 employees with over 8B in annual revenue 7 


Dr Goldstein is a Fellow of the IEEE a Fellow of the Washington Academy of Sciences and a member of the IEEE Radar Systems Panel He is an Adjunct Professor of Electrical Engineering at Virginia Tech where he has successfully supervised three Ph.D candidates and taught courses on radar systems and signal processing He was elected to the 2003 National Academy of Engineering Frontiers of Engineering Program as one of the Nation's 100 outstanding young engineers He also received the 2002 IEEE Fred Nathanson Radar Engineer of the Year Award He has authored or co-authored over 100 refereed technical publications and 4 U.S Patents Dr Goldstein is a member of Sigma Xi Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu Peter Zulch received his Bachelors Masters and Doctorate from Clarkson University in 1988 1991 1994 respectively From 1994 to the present he has been employed by the Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL From 1994 to 2007 he worked for the AFRL Sensors Directorate where his interests included multidimensional adaptive signal processing with applications to Airborne Early Warning RADAR space based radar waveform diversity multistatic radar and active noise control From 2007 to the present Dr Zulch is employed by the AFRL Information Directorate applying the previous interests to signal intelligence pursuits Dr Zulch is a senior member of the IEEE 8 


  G  G r e e n w a ld W it hin-s u bje c t de s i gns T o us e o r n o t to use?é Psychological Bulletin 83 \(2\, 1976, pp. 314Ö320   R. H e vne r S. T. Ma rc h, J  Pa rk, a nd S. Ra m   D e s ign science in information systems researché, Management Information Systems Quarterly 28 \(1\2004, pp. 75Ö105  M. H i l l s a n d P A r m ita ge   T he tw o-pe ri od c r os s o ve r clinical trialé, British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology 8 \(1 1979, pp. 7Ö20   H o lla nde r a n d D  A  W o l f e  N onpa ra m e tric Sta tis tic al Methods, 2nd ed., New York, John Wiley & Sons, 1999   J u pp, G  Mo ult on, A   R e c t or, R  Ste ve ns a nd C   Wroe, çA practical guide to building owl ontologies using protÈgÈ 4 and co-ode toolsé, The University of Manchester 2007   K e re n B e t w e e n or w ithin-s u bje c t s de s i gn A m e thodologi cal dilemma in: A Handbook for Data Analysis in the Behavioral Sciences Ö Methodological Issues, G. Keren and C. Lewis, Eds, Hillsdale, NJ, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1993, pp. 257Ö272 15 B A Kitch e n h a m S  L  P f l eeg er D C Ho aglin  an d J  Rosenberg, çPreliminary guidelines for empirical research in software engineeringé, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 28 \(8\, 2002, pp. 721Ö734 16  M  Kr tzsch  D Vran d e i   an d M  V l k el Wikip ed ia  and the semantic web Ö the missing linksé, Proceedings of Wikimania 2005, Frankfurt, Germany, 2005 17 M  Kr tzsch D. Vran d e i   M. Vˆlkel, H. Haller, and R Studer, çSemantic wikipediaé, Journal of Web Semantics 5 \(4\, 2007, pp. 251Ö261   La ite nbe rge r K  El Em a m a nd T. H a rbic h A n i n ternally replicated quasi-expe rimental comparison of checklist and perspective-based reading of code documentsé, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 27 \(5\001, pp. 387 421  pse y, De sign Se nsitivit y: Sta tistic a l Powe r for  Experimental Research, Newbury Park, CA, Sage Publications, 1989   Ma jc hrz a k C. Wa g n e r  a nd D  Y a te s   C orpora t e  wiki users: Results of a surveyé, Proceedings of the 2006 International Symposium on Wikis, Odense, Denmark, 2006  S. T  Ma rc h a nd G  F S m ith D e s ign a n d na tura l  science research on information technologyé Decision Support Systems 15 \(4\, 1995, pp. 251Ö266    Ma rc o, B u ild ing a n d Ma na gin g t h e Me ta D a ta Re pository. A Full Lifecycle Guide, New York, Wiley Computer Publishing, 2000    Mul ja di, H  Ta ke da a n d K  A n d o  D e v e l o p m e nt of a  semantic wiki-based feature library for the extraction of manufacturing feature and manufacturing informationé, International Journal of Computer Science 1 \(4\2006, pp 265Ö273   N e w m a n a nd D  Loga n   A c h ie ving a g il ity: H o w  enterprise information mana gement overcomes information silosé Gartner Research, Stamfo rd, Connecticut, 2006 No. G00137817   B. N i xon a n d E. P. B. Sim pe rl M a kna a nd m u ltimakna: towards semantic and multimedia capability in wikis for the emerging webé, Proceedings of the Semantics 2006 Vienna, Austria, 2006   D. Pao li an d M. L o re gian, çOn integrat ing a semantic wiki in a knowledge management systemé, Proceedings of the 3rd Italian Semantic Web Workshop, Pisa, Italy, 2006   Sc ha ffe rt I ke w i ki: A se m a ntic wiki for c o lla b o ra tive  knowledge managementé, Proceedi ngs of the 1st International Workshop on Semantic Technologies in Collaborative Applications, Mancester, UK, 2006 28  S   S e n n  Cro ss-ov er T r i a l s i n Cl i n i cal Research  2n d ed    Southern Gate, Chichester, West Sussex, England, Wiley Sons, 2002   Sha nka ra na ra ya n, M  Zi a d a nd R  Y  Wa ng  M a n aging data quality in dynamic decision environments: An information product approach Journal of Database Management 14 \(4\ 2003, pp. 14Ö32  uz is B uil din g a se m a ntic wiki IEEE In te llige n t  Systems 20 \(5\, 2005, pp. 87Ö91   T o z e r Me ta da ta Ma na g e m e nt for Inform a tio n Co ntrol and Business Success, Boston, Artech House, 1999   W. T uke y, E x p l ora t or y D a ta A n a l ys is Re a d ing, Ma s sachusetts, Addison-Wesley, 1977   Wh ite L Pl otnic k, R A dda m s Mori ng M. T u r o ff  and S. R. Hiltz, çLeveraging a wiki to enhance virtual collaboration in the emergency domainé, Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Waikoloa, Big Island, Hawaii, 2008   Wine r, D  R. Brow n, a n d K  M Mic he ls Sta tis t i c a l  Principles In Experimental Design, 2nd ed, Boston, Massachusetts, McGraw-Hill, 1991   Y a n g D  Wu S. K oolm a nojw o n g  A  W  Brow n, a n d B. W. Boehm, çWikiwinwin: A wiki based system for collaborative requirements negotiationé, Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Waikoloa, Big Island, Hawaii, 2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  10 Airborne Collision Avoidance System and Enhanced Vision System  Akira Ishide was born in Tokyo Japan.  He received the B.S. degree in 1971 from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan.   Since 1971, he has been with the Electronic Navigation Research Institute, Ministry of Transport Tokyo, Japan.   He received the Ph D. in 1996 from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan Since 2001, he has been with the Electronic Navigation Research Institute, Independent Administrative Institution He has been engaged in research on Aeronautical Satellite Communication System, Array Antenna System, and so on 


Alan Little is the MEDLI Project Manager at NASA's Langley Research Center He previously served on a variety of earth remote sensing missions and recently served as the NASA-CNES interface manager and the payload assembly integration and test manager on the joint NASAICNES CALIPSO Mission that was launched in April 2006 He has a MS in Optics from the University of Rochester Neil Cheatwood earned B.S MS and Ph.D degrees in aerospace engineering from NC State University He has played key roles in a number of NASA's planetary atmospheric flight programs and is a nationally recognized expert in aerosciences and flight mechanics for planetary entry systems He is currently serving as the Hypersonics Project Scientist for the Fundamental Aeronautics Program with NASA's ARMD Dr Cheatwood is also the Principle Investigator for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project In recent years he led NASA LaRC efforts to develop inflatable aeroshell technologies He served as CoInvestigator to Claude Graves of NASA JSC on the NASA ESMD ESR&T Inflatable Aeroshell and TPS Development IA TD Project He served as the Principle Investigator for NASA LaRCs Inflatable Reentry Vehicle Experiment IRVE as well as the follow-on Program to Advance Inflatable Decelerators for Atmospheric Entry PAI-DAE Dr Cheatwood was responsible for aerodynamic databases of Stardust Mars Microprobe Genesis and Mars Exploration Rovers He has also contributed to the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Sample Return flight projects Dr Cheatwood is an AIAA Associate Fellow and the principle author or co-author of 60 technical publications in the fields of fluid dynamics atmospheric entry and systems engineering Jeff Herath serves as the Lead Systems Engineer and Chief Engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI He also serves as the Assistant Head of the Atmospheric Flight and Entry Systems Branch AFESB to plan direct and coordinate Branch activities in the areas offlight and entry systems research and development Mr Herath previously was the Acting Assistant Branch Head for Electronic Systems and served as the branch leadfor new business activities proposals and their development He was also the Principal Investigator PI for the Radiation Tolerant Intelligent Memory Stack RTIMS Project which successfully developed and demonstrated an in-flight reconfigurable radiation tolerant stacked memory array He co-founded Vianix LC a company developing and licensing voice compression technology and served as its Chief Technology Officer He developed the company's voice compression technology and was responsible for all research  development engineering personnel and production efforts He has 6 patents As Manager of Hardware Development at Arc Second Inc he designed and built a unique laser based three-dimensional positioning system which opened new markets for the company At E-Systems he successfully completed several military avionics programs and payload that were classified and consisted of system box and board level designs Michelle Munk has been a NASA employee for nearly 20 years first at the Johnson Space Center then at the Langley Research Center She has been involved in Mars advanced mission studies for many years both robotic and human contributing interplanetary trajectory analysis and entry and descent analysis She has managed the delivery of International Space Station hardware and was on the Mars Odyssey aerobraking operations team In 2002 Ms Munk accepted a detail assignment to become the Lead Engineer for Aerocapture Technology Development under In-Space Propulsion at Marshall Space Flight Center She managed the technical work of ISP Aerocapture for nearly 5 years before becoming the Project Area Manager and returning to Langley in 2007 Ms Munk is also a subsystem leadfor the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project and contributes to other NASA projects developing entry system technologies She has a BSAE from Virginia Tech and completed graduate coursework at the University of Houston Frank Novak is an Assistant Branch Head for Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA He serves as the MEDLI Subsystem Manager for the Sensor Support Electronics SSE system Mr Novak has over 20 years of experience in the design development and test of spaceflight electronics He served as the lead development manager for the EVA IR Camera Project lead engineer for the visible imager for the GIFTS project lead electronics engineer for the pointing spectrometer for the Mars ARES project lead integration and test engineer for the SAGE III project and lead engineer for the interface adaptor module for SAGE III He earned a BS in Physics from Christopher Newport University in 1999 11 


Ed Martinez is a Project Manager/Lead Scientist/Project Engineer with 20 years experience in the aerospace and electromechanical field He is responsible for leading the Thermal Protection System TPS instrumentation programs for the NASA Ames Research Center As Project Manager he simultaneously managed multiple teams of scientists engineers and engineering technicians responsible for TPS projects including test analysis and technology advancement As Lead Scientist he was engaged in the characterization and operations of the world's largest shock tube This facility produced simultaneous overpressure and thermal environments at shock speeds up to Mach 5 As a Project Engineer his experience included project initiation coordination and providing design and instrument criteria for operating multi-100 million dollar DoD facilities Mr Martinez also managed data handling performed analysis reporting of test results and maintained technical proficiency in shockwave phenomenology 12 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in LiËge for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f LiËge in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


