Using wiki to support constructivist learning: a case study in university education settings   Franck TÈtard bo Akademi University franck.tetard@abo.fi Erkki Patokorpi bo Akademi University erkki.patokorpi@abo.fi Kristian PackalÈn bo Akademi University kristian.packalen@abo.fi   Abstract  According to Tim Berners-Lee, wiki technology represents an instantiation of how the World Wide Web was planned to work: a platform that users can use 
both to retrieve content \(read\ and contribute content write\. Wiki technology lends itself to many uses. One of the main features of wiki technology is its support for collaborative editing of content. In this paper, we introduce briefly wiki technology, the pedagogical premises of the use of wiki in education, and present one case of the use of wiki in university education context as support for constructivist collaborative learning. We present empirical data on the participants evaluation of the use of wiki, and the analysis by the course instructor. We also discuss possibilities and potential problem situations when utilizing wiki-technology in educational settings, in particular related to the assessment of learning, the 
monitoring of student participation, and the need for communication support in the learning process   1. Introduction  In the past few years, we have witnessed a fundamental change in how people get informed. The Internet has come to play a more and more important role and people have become more and more used to using the Internet for all purposes, not least information gathering, but lately also for information creation using what people usually refer to as Web 2.0 technologies. As San Murugesan [15 p u t s i t   
Web 2.0 is more interactive and dynamic than its predecessor Web 1.0, letting users both access content from a website and contribute to it We have in the last couple of years witnessed a fundamental change in how people utilize the Internet. Many people have ceased to be mere receivers of information and started contributing to the Internet by using e.g. discussion forums, blogs, chats and wikis. Internet users have started to turn from consumers to prosumers that is 
from consumers to both pro ducers and consumers  The common denominators of these tools are that they enable User Generated Content \(UGC\ easy manner and that they often are open to all. Hence participation is unrestricted and democratic. These Web 2.0 components also generally rely on the users to monitor the content and behaviour of other users. One requirement for this is that there exists a large enough user mass, the so-called critical mass of users, and also that there are power users, or leaders As part of this change in Internet technologies, wiki is a tool that has gained acceptance among users. Most 
Internet users consult the Wikipedia when searching for information on the Internet. The success of Wikipedia as a source of information has been tremendous, despite that some critics have voiced their doubts about the validity of its content, especially in academic circles. Wikipedia is today the largest online encyclopedia available in 253 languages. The English-language version contains more than 2,300,000 articles \(statistics collected on May 23 2008 http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/List_of_Wikipedias  The success of Wikipedia \(and wiki technology\has 
sprouted a series of similar sites, using wikis to foster participation and leverage the participative power of online users \(e.g. Wikibooks, Wikitravel, and so forth Wiki is also increasingly being taken into use in various learning contexts One of the main features of wiki technology is the support it gives for collaborative editing of content enabling collaborative writing. In a learning context collaborative writing is a method used by pedagogues within the framework of collaborative pedagogy where learners are encouraged to engage in 
collaborative activities \(e.g. writing\ in order to understand or solve a problem. Some components of collaborative pedagogy are also found in constructivist learning, where peer-to-peer interaction and instructor feedback are key features. In a constructivist learning setting  18  w i k i tech n o lo gy  w ill n a tu rall y be  an interesting alternative to other collaborative writing tools. The purpose of this paper is to examine the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


suitability of wiki technology as a collaborative writing tool in the context of constructivist learning. A case of the use of wiki in university education is presented analysed and reflected upon In this paper, we pay particular attention to the use of wiki in university education, especially as a tool for students to collaboratively contribute to a course assignment. The use of wiki as part of a course module raises many questions. First, the technology should work smoothly and not be a hinder to student participation. Second, an a ppropriate assessment of the learning outcomes is required, with respect to the pedagogical approach used. Third, adequate support to the learners should be provided. The paper will attempt to answer these questions in the following way: \(i empirical data on the particip antsê evaluation of the use of wiki will be presented, \(ii\ analysis of the learning process and outcomes, made by the course instructors, will be provided. On the basis of the case we will also discuss possibilities and potential problem situations when utilizing wiki-technology in educational settings, in particular related to the assessment of learning, the monitoring of student participation, and the need for communication support in the learning process  The structure of the paper is as follows: we will first cover the state-of-the-art of wiki and its use in learning education environments. Then we will present the pedagogical framework within which we have used wikis. The case study will be introduced; and we will present our findings in terms of responses to a questionnaire distributed to students and a qualitative evaluation made by the responsible course leader Finally, we will discuss the findings and make some concluding remarks  2. Wiki state-of-the-art  2.1. Wiki: definition, characteristics and features  The word wiki is borrowed from Hawaiian. Some of the meanings associated with the word wiki in Hawaiian are quick and informal   Richardson \(2006, p. 8\ defines wiki as a collaborative Webspace where anyone can add content and anyone can edit content that has already been published The core properties of a wiki are: the ease of use, simple navigation and linking features, user involvement and democraticness Wiki is a lot about a collaboration space, albeit an unusual one because of its total freedom, ease and access of use, simple and uniform navigational conventions, and apparent lack of formal structure \(p. 16  n e r an d Prasarnphanich [26 fi nd t h a t  w i ki t e c h no l o g y fo l l o w s  a collaborative model of content creation where the individual receives little recognition. However, they also find that wiki is a set of linked web pages created through the incremental development by a group of collaborating users Hence, the users are obviously, a central part of the wiki concept Informality is at the core of the wiki concept: wiki sites invite users to freely and easily contribute to the content of a wiki. Users are on an equal basis and there are practically no barriers to start contributing to a wiki. The fact that wiki is very easy to implement and understand, is probably a key to why wikis have become so popular. Previous attempts at creating technologies for collaboration have not been as successful. At the same time as technology has perhaps become easier to use, people have become more used to computers and the Internet so that virtual collaboration seems more natural than before  2.2. Wiki selection issues  There are several dozens of wiki programs available on the Internet, but only a few of these can be seen as unique. According to Schwar m o n  feature categories of wikis are: source code, wiki management, page formatting, access control communications, support and advanced features According to Schwartz et al., there are several issues to consider when selecting a wiki for educational purposes   cost acquisition and use costs vary depending on whether the technology is open-source or licensed   complexity availability of technical support through online documentation, user and developer community support, technology hosted or to be downloaded/installed, and sandbox   control regarding user rights management required user registration, password-protection of specific content, restore capabilities \(history and version tracking   clarity of wiki structure and functionality through availability of index/site maps, interwiki formatting, back-linking, page hierarchy navigation and structure\iving, page creation/deletion, new content identification compare\ange notifications by e-mail   common technical framework used browser and cross-platform compatibility, internet and intranet installation, support of simultaneous edits, plain ASCII text storage   features WYSIWYG editing, HTML support, text editing \(bold, italic sertion of images, tables lists, media and hyperlinks, search function, spellcheck, emoticons, blogging, polling, RSS feeds Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


link checking, drawing tools, equation editor synchronous text messaging \(IM  Many of the features listed above - such as index/site map, page hierarchy, WYSIWYG editing search - enhance the tool s usability, which is an important adoption factor Wiki is a tool among others, competing with other collaborative tools in the scope of learning Collaborative tools can be classified according to two dimensions: \(1\mmunication-oriented \(e.g discussion forums, e-mails\ \(2\ocument-oriented e.g. content management systems, learning platforms Depending on their implementation and features, wikis can be found midways between these two axes: some wikis might impose tight control \(in terms of user rights management and document management whereas some others may look unstructured and promote high interaction between participants  2.3. Related research - use of wikis in education and learning  There have been several attempts to use wiki in educational settings. An extensive coverage of the state-of-the-art of wikis in learning is beyond the scope of this paper but a good starting point can be found in the wiki page hosted by EduTech Wiki [29   P a r k e r  and Ch ide an ex t e n s i v e revie w of th e us e  of wikis as a teaching tool. In this section, we will focus on the role of wikis in learning, especially in the context of collaborative and constructivist learning. We will also discuss the importance of assessment in collaborative learning, the issues of participation and control, and the role of communication in the wiki process   2.3.1. Role of wiki in learning  Students regularly use wikis as a source of information, for example to get knowledge about a subject for an assignment. Probably the most commonly used wiki is Wikipedia. However the use of wikis may cause problems connected to the trustworthiness of the information and the risk for plagiarism ot h e r probl e m i s t h at  w i k i s o f t e n have anonymous authors, making viable research work difficult. The trustworthiness of on-line sources, and especially wikis, have resulted in that many people regard them as inaccurate. However, it might be argued that they are no less trustworthy than other sources. It seems that contrary to a general belief wikis are quite trustworthy, although there certainly are examples of misrepresented facts, errors and deliberate lies in wikis as can be the case in any source  Kim et al rt th eir use of a w i k i to su pport idea sharing in a problem solving process in computer programming methods. Wiki is also being used as a way to organize, structure and share information and knowledge resources across groups of students in the context of design project work  a f f e rt et al  21 i d e n t i f y se ve r a l  t a s k s  w h e r e  w i ki s c a n b e  use d   cognitive apprenticeship, lea rning within communities of practice, project-based learning, collaborative story writing, as well as interdisciplinary and intercultural learning Wikis have been found to support the collaborative learning paradigm: Parker and Ch iden tify t h at  wikis can be used to support cooperative learning computer-supported collaborative learning, and collaborative learning. By cooperative learning is meant that the tasks have been divided between learners whereas collaborative learning means that the tasks are done together. In their literature review Parker and Chao identify several benefits of the applications of wikis; among these, higher levels of thought and information retention than achieved by students working individually, enhanced peer interaction and group work, sharing of knowledge and expertise among learners, and promotion of cooperation  have s t udied the us e of wikis to engage students in authentic collaborative writing activities. The use of wikis engages students in a learning opportunity, addressing the following features: personal \(in terms of studentsê commitment to the learning task\rld \(connected to reality outside the classroom disciplinary \(re lated to the subject matter to be dealt with\sessment assessment of oneês own learning as well as that of others  Parker and Chao also review the use of wikis within the framework of constructivist learning Reflective learning is one of the features of constructivism: wikis can support this feature by enabling students to structure their reflections on their own \(and their peers ing. For example, Chen et  o u n d th at w i kis h e lp s t u d en t s in e n gin eeri ng reflect on what they have learned, meaning that wikis can be used as a tool to support knowledge synthesis or learning outcomes. Also, the collaborative features of wikis are outlined by Parker and Chao as important enablers of shared and distributed knowledge building within communities of practice  2.3.2. Assessment In the study conducted by Forte et  th e s t u d e n ts edited es s a y s an d rev i e w ed eac h others work. The authors found out that a perceived online audience plays a role in helping students monitor the quality of writing. Wh  underline that an equitable assessment of wiki contributors is a problem that requires further thought some students contribute more than others. It has also Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


been shown that contributors learn even when not actively contributing content  2.3.3. Participation and control Chong  investigated the use of wikis to support collaborative learning. Their results show that wikis, when supported with appropriate communication tools, foster active participation and high-quality debate among students According to Richardson, wiki projects in schools have worked best when there have been less regulations of the wiki and the students have been able to manage the content on the wiki themselves. Richardson also believes it is a good idea for students to contribute to a widely accessible wiki, if for example the student has done some prior research on the topic in question  pp. 64-65\The issue of control has been discussed by Wang et  ter m s of who can edit what wiki artefact, and when They identify situations where teachers may need to exert control on the wiki in order to prevent changes from other users. Participation, and especially the issue of free-riding, is discussed by Auga In an open  w i k i env i ronm e n t w i t h out  many restrictions, participation is often bound to the contributors interest, motivation and responsibility for their own learning. Auga r et al. report on an experiment in which 42% of the surveyed participants joined the discussion on a weekly basis. Reinhold et al 19 sugge st b a se d o n t h e i r e x p e r i e n c e  w i t h  w i ki s tha t  the participation level is often low and that the quality of articles depends almost exclusively on the students  motivation  2.3.4. Role of coordination ViÈgas t u d ied  the coordination features provided by Wikipedia. Their conclusion is that although Wikipedia seems to be uncoordinated and potentially a place where anarchy would prevail, the coordination features provided by Wikipedia actually promote group coordination, policy and processes and support strategic planning of edits and enforcement of standard guidelines and conventions In their analysis of Talk pages, ViÈgas et al. identified 11 categories of posting to Talk pages The researchers found out that requests for coordination accounted for more than a half of the contributions. Stvilia et al tu rn f o u n d  th a t  Talk pages in Wikipedia play a crucial role in letting users articulate quality issues in Wikipedia articles  3. Constructivist virtual collaboration  Constructivist pedagogues generally agree on certain characteristics of constructivist learning, the main of which are problem orientation, the importance of individual learning strategies and situated collaboration. The learners are advised and encouraged to set out from a problem they feel to be of personal importance and in which they are genuinely interested Thus the questions should not come from above, from the teacher, but the learners should ideally come up with their own questions. These questions should target real-life problems or at least be as close to real-life problems as possible. This helps the learners to feel that solving the problem has a real meaning to them personally, and that they find it easy to own the problem. The learner is also supposed to take the chief responsibility over the finding of learning materials and work methods \(which usually entails that they are given guidance in finding or rehearsing proper methods\, which gives individual learners an opportunity to apply methods and sources they feel confident with and that suit their personal learning style. However, links to a real-life problem and a personally-felt question have to be negotiated with the learner s peers. In constructivist learning group work and the matching of individual strengths for attaining a common goal \(i.e. project work\ditions for successful collaboration. Collaboration is perhaps the most important single factor in constructivist collaborative learning. Hence, various forms of communicative and collaborative technologies are very valuable to communities of practice as well as to teachers applying constructivist learning principles    18] [24  In their research on collaborative learning based on 875 case studies, Johnson and Johnson h o w th a t  collaborative learning is likely to lead to improved outcomes, higher achievement and better productivity Learning can be enhanced by virtual or real-life collaboration. Koufman-Frederick t ou t  that the problem with virtual collaboration is that it does not seem to be quite as easily accomplished as real-life collaboration. The problems are mainly due to technology, individual work methods and prejudices Technology is not so important a factor as people generally seem to believe, whereas social matters prove to be the main obstacles for successful virtual collaborative learning. Keys for successful collaborative learning are a shared goal and purposeful channels for dialogue and interaction  Gross Davis m s t h at b e s t learn i n g o u tco m e s  are to be expected when learners are actively involved in the process. Learners working in groups attain better learning outcomes and are more satisfied with the teaching or guidance given by the facilitator. Learning should be applied in a context, so that it could be perceived as having a personally felt meaning Unfortunately, collaboration in education, as a rule takes place physically and technology is used for informing alone, that is, to disseminate the course materials to students, and not so much for actual Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


learning. Accordingly, technology supported collaboration is usually done with the help of e-mail or discussion forums. Wiki clearly goes a step further, as it is a viable means to collaboration that enables easy co-authoring of content. Other new media are the blog and the videoblog, which also can be used to support learning The traditional term for collaborative technology enhanced learning is Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning, but as new technologies emerge new possibilities for virtual collaboration also emerge. Collaborative learning should not be restricted to computers alone but should include any means found useful, depending on the situation where learning takes place. The prospects brought about by improved collaboration include the utilization of collective intelligence; enhancing the participants  ability to focus on their core-capabilities; and better distribution of information  Improved collaboration can enrich learning when people come together to discuss a topic, especially when the participants have different backgrounds and can amend one another s knowledge. Wiki technology enables reflection through co-author summaries, so that learners can discuss what they have learned, and for instance apply it in the form of stories. Furthermore learning to collaborate is an important learning outcome sui generis because success in modern everyday working life depends much on collaboration and group work skills. Furthermore, collaboration between teachers will allow teachers to reflect on their teaching, develop the curriculum, share resources, and receive help and advice. This enables the reuse of learning resources, too [1     4. Learning with wikis case study  4.1. Method  During spring 2007, we used wikis as a tool for an assignment in an introductory course in Information Systems at the ≈bo Akademi University. The wiki was embedded in the learning platform Moodle. The rationale behind choosing Moodle is simply because the course was scheduled to run in Moodle. The students \(1 st year students\ were divided into five groups of 15 participants and were asked to create a knowledge base, each describing a particular technology. Students were asked to complete an evaluation questionnaire after the course ended. The questionnaire asked students about their impressions on using the wiki as a tool to build a knowledge base 47 questionnaires were returned. A teacher assessment of this case is also done, paying particular attention to the learning outcomes, student participation, and the role of communication support. The assessment and the results presented in this chapter have been gathered by the first author of the paper, who acted as the main lecturer in the course. Quantitative data on student participation has been collected through log-file analysis  4.2. Case Using wikis to build a knowledge base  The purpose of the assignment was to build a knowledge base about different business models that the selected companies use, and how they use Information and Communication Technology \(ICT\ to support their business models in their operations. Each student group chose a company and produced materials on how the company used ICT to support their respective business model. Students were given access to a wiki-tool in the Moodle learning platform. The course participants were organized in 5 groups, with about 15 students per group. Each group was given the task of creating their own wiki about one company assigned to them. Each wiki included a start page created by the course teacher. The page could be changed or filled in by the students with their own materials. Sub-pages could also be freely created by the students Before the start of the assignment, the students received a document with a proposed way of organizing their work \(the students were free to organize their work in a different way, if they wanted to do so\he assignment was divided into three periods, lasting 10 days each, and the students were not assigned different tasks i  gathering materials to the wiki ii  structuring the wiki, and iii  finalizing the wiki The students got access to instructions, giving advice on what kind of materials is appropriate to use in the assignment \(especially on how to avoid plagiarism\ and how to use the wiki. The students were also given access to a test wiki where they could experiment how wiki works and behaves upon editing The course leader demonstrated how to use the wiki during one of the course lectures. A discussion forum was created to support remote communication and interaction between students during the assignment The assignment lasted for a period of 30 days During this time, the students had made between 70 and 190 contributions to each wiki \(in other words, one wiki was edited only 70 times, the wiki with the most edits was edited 190 times\he content created by the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


students included not only text, but also pictures and links to internal wiki pages and external web pages Figure 1 summarizes the assessment made for one group of students. The assignment was graded according to the following criteria: \(i\wiki actions  the editing, creation and review of wiki pages; \(ii\t of new pages; \(iii\nks to external web pages and the appropriate use of referencing techniques, \(iv\ the number of good quality page starts and reviews, and v\us participation points. Both quality and quantity were taken into account. The grade was obtained by calculating a weighted average \(see components and weights in figure 1\he students  individual and collective input was taken into account in the final grade   Figure 1: Assessment of students contributions   4.3. Students perceptions of the use of wiki  Students perceptions of the use of wiki were collected through an on-line questionnaire, which was made available at the end of the course. The questionnaire included 22 questions. Respondents were asked to indicate their gender and if they had previous experience in reading wikis and/or writing in wikis Yes/No\hey were also asked to indicate their approximate frequency and time of usage of the wiki Respondents were asked to rate the following statements on a scale of 1 to 5 \(1 = do not agree at all 5 = absolutely agree Using the wiki was easy Editing pages was easy It was difficult to edit links and create new pages It was difficult to get an overall picture of the content of the wiki The discussion forum was useful I think that the content t hat we produced is of high quality My own input was excellent I think that wiki should be used more in education Wiki is a good collaboration tool The text that we produced was of good quality The assignment promotes better learning than traditional assignments I think that I have learned a lot It was not easy to coordinate editing with other participants  Four open-ended questions were also asked What were the most su ccessful aspects of this assignment What were the worst problems you encountered How could we improve the use of wikis in the course Other comments on the wiki  The students prior experience of wiki usage is an interesting starting point: while a large majority N=37\as previously read content from a wiki website, most of them \(N=43\ave never produced content using a wiki tool. This could mean that the wiki-concept is somehow familiar, but few students actually know how to use wikis When asked about their frequency and time of usage during the assignment, half of the students responded that they used the wiki several times per week, several students also used the wiki at least once a day \(see Figure 2\About a third of the respondents used the wiki only once a week or less. Most students used the wiki less than 10 hours during the 4 week period. About a third used the wiki more than 10 hours   Usage frequency 1 7 24 10 2 3 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Several times / day 1 time / day Several times week 1 time week Several times month 1 time month  Figure 2. Wiki usage frequency  Overall, the students agreed or strongly agreed that the wiki was easy to use \(N=34\, although several students complained about usability problems in their answers to open-ended questions. When looking at the answers in more detail, it appeared that the students agreed that editing the wiki was easy \(N=37\t that there was disagreement about how difficult it was to edit links and create new pages. 22 respondents agreed or strongly agreed that editing links and creating pages was difficult; 19 respondents disagreed \(see Figure 3  All actions  w=1  Start new pages  w=10  Links referencing  w=2  Number of good quality start and reviews  w=5  Bonus  w=10  Points Student 1 86 1 1 1 108 Student 2 14 14 Student 3 0 0 Student 4 28 1 38 Student 5 66 1 1 1 88 Student 6 11 1 1 26 Student 7 47 1 1 2 69 Student 8 0 1 10 Student 9 42 1 1 1 59 Student 10 50 1 52 Student 11 32 1 42 Student 12 2 2 Student 13 49 1 59 Student 14 53 1 1 1 75 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 It was difficult to edit links and create new pages 7 14 4 18 4 0 5 10 15 20 Does not agree at all Does not agree Do not know Agree Absolutely agree  Figure 3. Difficult to edit links and create new pages  About half of the respondents agreed that it was easy to get an overall picture of the content of the wiki but again 19 students \(about 40%\agreed \(see Figure 4  It was difficult to get an overall picture of the content of the wiki 3 19 7 12 7 0 5 10 15 20 Does not agree at all Does not agree Do not know Agree Absolutely agree  Figure 4. Difficult to get an overall picture of the wiki  There was a large consensus that the content produced was of high quality \(N=34\though there were mixed answers about the quality of individual contributions. Students also agreed that the quality of the text was good \(N=28\bout 40 % of the students thought that they had learned a lot with the assignment N=20\bout a third disagreed to the same statement N=17\. Opinions were mixed regarding if this type of assignment promoted better learning than traditional written assignments About half of the students agreed that using the discussion forum was useful to complete the task at hand. 19 students \(40%\ answered do not know One reason explaining this could be that some groups did not use the discussion forum at all as a support for the assignment. At the same time, respondents largely agreed that it was not easy to coordinate editing with Figure 5\ides, 27 students thought that wiki is a good collaboration tool and the majority \(N=24\swered that wiki should be used more in education \(Figure 6  It was not easy to coordinate editing with other participants 2 13 11 20 2 0 5 10 15 20 25 Does not agree at all Does not agree Do not know Agree Absolutely agree  Figure 5. Coordinating editing with other participants  I think that wiki should be used more in education 2 10 12 18 6 0 5 10 15 20 Does not agree at all Does not agree Do not know Agree Absolutely agree  Figure 6. Wiki should be used more in education  4.4 Teacher qualitative evaluation  Overall, it can be said that the wiki assignment was a success. The resulting wikis consisted of one main page and several sub-pages \(ranging between 7 and 33 sub-pages\. While some groups preferred to write long pages, other groups preferred to have many links to shorter pages. The quality of the text was varying overall, it can be said that the main pages were written carefully \(and reviewed many times\, while sub-pages  quality could vary very much Student participation was high in several cases groups made between 70 and 190 contributions to their wiki during a period of 4 weeks - the group that reached only 70 contributions was an exception, other groups reached over 120 contributions Figure 7 illustrates the cumulated number of edits on one of the wikis for a period of 30 days. In this figure, we can observe that participation is more intense when the end of each phase is approaching \(at Day 10, Day 20 and Day 30   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 Cumulated edits on a wiki for a period of 30 days 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 D a y  1 Da y  3 Da y  5 Da y  7 Da y  9 Da y 11 Da y 13 Da y 15 Da y 17 Da y 19 Da y 21 Da y 23 Da y 25 Da y 27 Da y 29 Da y 31 Edits   Figure 7: Cumulated number of edits on a wiki for a period of 30 days  Communication played a significant role in the process of the assignment. It appeared that the groups that were most active in the wiki process were also communicating actively through the medium given to them \(the discussion forum\. The students were communicating with their peers when they made changes to the wiki. Wikis are a good tool for collaborative assignment writing. However, it appears that the particular version of the wiki that was used in this assignment lacked functionality and had poor usability, although it worked well technically   5. Discussion and lessons learned  The case that we report in the previous section indicates that wiki is a suitable tool for use in university education. There are certainly many pitfalls that one should avoid when using a wiki: we will discuss these pitfalls in some detail in this section Choosing the right wiki is essential. As mentioned in section 2, there are several dozens of wikis available, all with a different set of available features From a teacher s point of view, it might be important to keep in mind that some wikis do not enable a proper follow-up of the contributors edits, which in turn can be difficult if one wants to make a quantitative evaluation of the contributors individual input. From a learner s point of view, usability issues might need to be taken into consideration In our case, the wiki was easy to use, but it was somehow difficult to edit and link pages, and it did not enable the students to get an holistic view of the content of the wiki \(a site map  would have been needed\tudents commented on the poor usability of the wiki. For instance, one student remarked that a better wiki-module would be required to improve the assignment. Another one observed that the Moodle user interface could be more user friendly and practical. A third one found the wiki technology the biggest stumbling block in the assignment. We have also noticed how important it is to produce help material on how to use the wiki s basic functions \(or alternatively to run a tutorial\ality of learning is an essential issue, since it is the main outcome of the wiki process. As we could notice from the case, students can produce high quality results with wiki Peer quality control kicked in early on and decisively contributed to th e guidance of the wiki process. Although students could not see other groups wikis, they expressed their need to see other groups contributions in the future; this finding is in line with the principles of constructivist learning 17] [18 The studentsê comments show that they appreciated the chance to search for information independently as well as contribute with a relevant piece of knowledge to the collaborative effort. Discussions during the classroom outside of classroom, through email, forum and the wiki log files were highl y valued as they were regarded as a central element of peer collaboration. Although not all students assumed the role of a quality controller even students with a more modest overall contribution commented and criticized parts of the ongoing work According to the studentsê feedback, the relative freedom to decide upon what to write, from what angle and how, made the task more interesting. The ability of learners themselves to set standards to their own work and assess the progress of their work can be seen as a valuable learning outcome. It also shows that wikis serve the constructivist pedagogical guidelines in the sense that the students are enab led to set their own goals as well as collectively take responsibility of both the learning process and outcome. For instance, the students were given free hands to retrieve information from any source they considered appropriate, which naturally led to a need to assess the reliability and usefulness of various information sources. Wikis also supported the learning of how to work together, and thus are likely to improve the social skills needed in collaboration in the real world. The students voiced their willingness to evaluate each othersê work and learn from them. Quite clearly the peer collaboration aspect throughout the assignment, including the assessment of the assignment, could be considerably extended as the students en masse and repeatedly expressed their keen interest in this form of work One issue related to the learning outcome is the issue of assessment The learning outcomes have been examined in quantitative terms in section 4.2, which corroborates earlier findings indicating that quantitative criteria are up to a certain point applicable for evaluation purposes. Especially the number of edits gives a rough measure of a satisfactorily performed wiki assignment Evaluation of a group s learning outcome can be done with several qualitative and quantitative criteria; other groups output can also be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


used as a point of comparison. Evaluation of individual performance is a bit trickier and a sensitive issue Several wikis do not allow a proper statistical followup of edits and contributions, and even when a quantitative evaluation is possible, there is a risk of it being of little value, since statistical data give little information about the quality of the output. Also contributors can, if they want to, remain anonymous during the wiki process, making it even more difficult to identify the origins of the contributions. In our study, the students voiced their concerns about user participation. They were disheartened by not all fellow students contributing to the extent that they considered appropriate We suggest that part of the evaluation should be made as a form of self-assessment or/and peer assessment. The benefits of self-assessment are that students learn to assess themselves the quality of their work, and that the workload of the teacher can be reduced to some extent. Students could be asked to evaluate their own contribution as well as evaluate how their peers performed. This could be done on an individual basis or in groups. Such an assessment would be in line with the nature of collaboration related to the use of wiki democratic and informal   Democratic since each contributor could have his or her say about the quality of the work  It would be informal as the procedure would bypass the hierarchical control of most traditional education   From the students point of view, such an assessment would certainly be welcome: in the questionnaire sent to students, many respondents voiced their concerns about how individual contributions will be taken into consideration in the evaluation. This finding confirms similar observations made by  Participation is also an issue at which we looked very closely. Several studies report a low participation lev  In ou r cas e w e obs erv e d th at th ere w e re  two typical groups of users leaders and freeriders  Leaders are users who are \(pro\e in the wiki process, communicate with the other group members and make decisions or influence how the wiki content should develop. Free-riders are less active, do not take initiatives and act when asked to \(or reminded\ each group experiment leaders/power users were about a third of the group and took a much more active role in the wiki process \(figure 1 provides support for this claim\ possible that involving less active students in their own evaluation and their peers  will encourage them to participate The wiki process requires some basic level of communication and coordination. Depending on the increasing complexity of the task at hand, the need for communication and coordination might increase Students were satisfied, and, judging from their written comments, surprised to see that the end result of their work was coherent, even though it was a joint effort by people who had not necessarily met physically Communication problems seemed to be a hinder to the writing of the wiki. According to the students, it was at times difficult to know who was supposed to do what Some anxiety about the end result was also a concern for many students. In our case, we created an external discussion forum and encouraged students to use it to discuss and coordinate the development of the wiki We noticed that groups which communicated more actively achieved better results, both in terms of quantity and quality. This result is corroborated by a study made by Stvili   6. Conclusion  In this paper, we presented evidence of the suitability of wikis to support collaborative writing We discussed in particular the issues of assessment, of learning, the monitoring of student participation, and communication support. We concluded that assessment should reflect the principles of wikis: democratic and informal, through open peer assessment and course leader assessment. The monitoring of student participation showed that there are distinct groups of contributors. Passive participants are a challenge which can be met by involving these students in the assessment of their own and their peers contribution Communication support is an essential condition for collaborative writing to take place effectively As a concluding remark, it could be added that students were pleased with the use of wiki in university education and that this kind of innovation was welcomed. Tools like blogs and wikis, which promote peer-to-peer collaboration throughout all society, are widely available on the Internet. People are not only consumers but also producers of information. In terms of education, this means that all sorts of collaborative technologies are becoming readily available and should be integrated into the mainstream of the educational system  7. References  1  Augar N., Raitman R., and W. Zhou, "Teaching and Learning Online with Wikis Proceedings of the 21st ASCILITE conference, Perth, 5-8 December 2004 2  Chen H., Cannon D., Gabrio J., Leifer L., Toye G and T. Bailey Using Wikis and Weblogs to Support Reflective learning in an Introductory Engineering Design Course in Proceedings of the 2005 American Society for Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Engineering Education Annual Conference & Exposition 2005 3  Chong N., and M. Yamamoto Collaborative Learning Using Wiki and Flexnetdiscuss: a Pilot Study  Proceedings of the fifth IASTED International Conference on Web-based Education Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, Jan 23-25 2006 4  Engestrˆm, Y. Learning by Expanding. OrientaKonsultit Oy, Helsinki, 1987 5  Forte A., and A. Bruckman From Wikipedia to the Classroom: Exploring Online Publication and Learning  Proceedings of the 7 th International Conference on Learning Sciences, Bloomington, Indiana, 2006, pp. 182-188 6  Grierson H., Nicol D., Littlejohn A., and A Wodehouse Structuring and Sharing Information Resources to Support Concept Development and Design Learning  Proceedin gs of the Networked Learning Conference, 2004 7  Gross Davis, B., Tools for Teaching, Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1993 8  Hon A. and W. Chun The Agile Teaching/Learning Methodology and its E-learning Platform Wenyin Liu, Yuanchun Shi, Qing Li \(Eds Advances in Web-Based Learning - ICWL 2004, Third International Conference, Beijing, China, August 8-11, 2004 9  Johnson, R. and D. Johnson An Overview of Cooperative Learning originally published in J. Thousand A. Villa and A. Nevin \(eds\ativity and Collaborative Learning, Brookes Press, Baltimore, 1994 10  J‰rvinen, E-M Education about and through Technology. In search of More Appropriate Pedagogical Approaches to Technology Education Acta Universitates Ouluensis, E 50. Oulu: Oulun yliopisto, 2001 11  Kim S., Han H., and S. Han The Study on Effective Programming Learning Using Wiki Community Systems Innovative Approaches for Learning and Knowledge Sharing, Springer Berlin, Vol. 4227/2006, pp 646-651 12  Koufman-Frederick, A., Lillie, M., PattisonGordon, L., Watt, D., and R. Carter Electronic Collaboration: A Practical Guide for Educators The LAB at Brown University, 1999 13  Leuf B., and W. Cunningham The Wiki Way Quick Collaboration on the Web Addison-Wesley, 2001 14  Mirijamdotter A., Somerville M. and Holst M An Interactive and Iterativ e Evaluation Approach for Creating Collaborative Learning Environments The Electronic Journal Information Systems Evaluation, Vol. 9 No. 2, 2006 pp. 83-92 15  Murugesan S Understanding Web 2.0 IT Pro July/August 2007 16  Parker K. and Chao J Wiki as a Teaching Tool  Interdisciplinary Journal of Knowledge and Learning Objects. Vol. 3, 2007 17  Patokorpi, E., TÈtard F., Qiao F. and N. Sjˆvall Mobile Learning Objects to Support Constructivist Learning in Learning Objects: Applications, Implications and Future Directions, Koohang A. and K. Harman \(eds 2007 18  Poikela, E. and A.R. Nummenmaa Ongelmaperustainen oppiminen tiedon ja osaamisen tuottamisen strategiana Problem-based learning as a strategy for knowledge building\ Poikela, E. \(ed Ongelmaperustainen pedagogiikka teoriaa ja k‰yt‰nt Problem-based pedagogy theory and practice\ Tampere Tampere University Press, 2002 19  Reinhold S., and D. Abawi Concepts for Extending Wiki Systems to Supplement Collaborative Learning in Technologies for E-Learning and Digital Entertainment: Proceedings of the First International Conference on Edutainment, Berlin : Springer, 2006, p. 755 767 20  Richardson, W Blogs, Wikis, Podcasts, and Other Powerful Web Tools for Classrooms Sage Publications: California, US; London UK; New Delhi, India 2006 21  Schaffert S., Bischof D., B¸rger T., Gruber A Hilzensauer W., and S. Schaffert Learning with Semantic Wikis in First Workshop SemWiki2006 - From Wiki to Semantics, co-located with the 3rd Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC\ Budva, Montenegro 11th - 14th June, 2006 22  Schwartz L, Clark S., Cossarin M., and J. Rudolph Educational Wikis: Features and Selection Criteria  International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2004 23  Stvilia, B., Twidale, M. B., Smith, L. C., and L Gasser Assessing information quality of a communitybased encyclopedia in: F. Naumann, M. Gertz, S. Mednick Eds.\, Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Quality - ICIQ 2005, Cambridge, MA: MITIQ 2005, pp. 442-454 24  TÈtard, F. and E. Patokorpi A Constructivist Approach to Information Systems Teaching Journal of Information Systems Education, 16\(2\05, pp. 167-176 25  ViÈgas F., Wattenberg M., Kriss J., and F. van Hamn Talk Before You Type: Coordination in Wikipedia  Proceedings of the 40th A nnual Hawaii In ternational Conference on System Sciences, 2007, p. 78 26  Wagner, C. and P. Prasarnphanich, P Innovating Collaborative Content Creation: The Role of Altruism and Wiki Technology Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2007 27  Wang C., and D. Turner D Extending the Wiki Paradigm for Use in the Classroom Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Technology Coding and Computing, 2004, p. 255 28  Wheeler S., Yeomans P. and D. Wheeler D. \(2008 The good, the bad and the wiki: evaluating studentgenerated content for collaborative learning in British Journal of Education Technology, 2008 29  Wiki EduTech Wiki retrieved April 9, 2008 from http://edutechwiki.unige.ch/mediawiki/index.php?title=Wiki oldid=17132   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


