   GLOBAL TEAMS: FUTURISTIC MODELS OF COLLABORATIVE WORK FOR TODAY S SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRY    Georgios A. Dafoulas Middlesex University United Kingdom g.dafoulas@mdx.ac.uk   Kathleen Swigger University of North Texas 
United States of America kathy@cs.unt.edu   Robert Brazile University of North Texas United States of America brazile@cs.unt.edu   Ferda Nur Alpaslan Middle East Technical University Turkey ferda@metu.edu.tr 
  Victor Lopez Cabrera Technological University of Panama Panama victor.lopez@utp.ac.pa   Fatma Cemile Serce Atilim University Turkey fcserce@atilim.edu.tr     ABSTRACT This paper emphasises the importance of global teams in 
the field of software development. The paper presents an approach for setting up pilot studies simulating those key features that make global software development teams particularly attractive to exploit and challenging to manage. The underlying research is supported by a research project funded by the US National Science Foundation with the participation of universities from US 
Turkey, Panama and the UK. The paper provides detailed guidelines for setting up simulations resembling globally dispersed software development teams and discusses preliminary data of two pilot studies with involving collaboration between teams residing in the US and the UK. Key concerns of this research are those factors affecting collaborative work when global teams are 
involved. Such factors include differences caused by distance, culture, time zones and technology  KEY WORDS Global teams, software development, collaborative work  Acknowledgment This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 0705638  1.  Introduction  
The modern software development industry has witnessed the introduction of new models of collaborative work primarily due to the advances of collaborative technologies and the availability of infrastructures supporting remote work. According to Vaclav Havel it is necessary to change and improve our understanding of the true purpose of what we are and what we do in the 
world. Only such a new understanding will allow us to develop new models of behaviour, new scales of values and goals, and thereby invest the global regulations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


treaties and institutions with a new spirit and meaning  Indeed the concepts of outsourcing, global teams, virtual organisations and collaborative work have been increasingly familiar in the software development industry  Redmiles et al provide an interesting criticism on available tools supporting collaborative development since they cause individuals and groups to work independently from one anothe  T h e p rop os ed  continuous coordination process extends the processbased and awareness-based coordination present in most collaborative projects so far. The approach is based on a combination of checkpoints of collaborative work combined with constant awareness of progress  Previous work was supported by and evaluated by BT and IBM focusing on establishing structures and investigating the effects of global software development. In the mid 90s the BT-funded DiCE project investigated issues relating to distributed centres of excellence. Focus was on how geographically dispersed teams would collaborate through the use of various technologies such as video conferencing, discussion boards and electronic meeting systems h e m a in co n cern  w a s t h e e f f ects o f dis t a n ce  hence the simulations involved three UK locations in Manchester, Durham and Keel ecen t dev e lop m e n t s  found BT receiving an award for impressive results on green issues since its efficient working from home initiative helped towards a dramatic reduction in emissions caused by unnecessary work related travel and commuting  Although distance is a critical factor affecting collaborative work, further work emphasized how dispersed resources may become even more difficult to manage when introducing different time zones and cultures. Previous work on dynamically formed global software teams investigated Hofstede s work on cultural differences with IBM employees in 53 countries  Outsourcing was becoming a frequent solution to reduce costs and maximize the effect of the round the sun development with carefully located geographically dispersed teams simulating a shift based pattern of collaborative work. Apparently team formation and role allocation issues are critical for the success of such work practices    An interesting aspect of cultural differences and how they may affect outsourcing and offshore projects is provided in the literature. Dibbern et al \(2008\ discuss the inherent costs of outsourcing leading to the failure of such projects, focusing on control, coordination and knowledge transf   Hildenbrand et al \(2008\tify a current assumption for necessary industrialization of software development and design of novel forms of specialization, task distribution and collaboration The authors provide a classification and evaluation of current approaches of collaborative software developmen rom t h es e docum e n ted approaches, there are also ad hoc efforts from major industry players towards the evolution of Distributed Software Development and outsourcing of certain types of tasks  IBM along with BT has invested in outsourcing and remote work structures over several decades. It is fascinating to observe IBM being one of the pioneering forces introducing its Second Life Grid, a platform enabling organisations to create a public or secure private space using the leading 3D online virtual world technology to hold virtual meetings and provide employee training  http://secondlifegrid.net such initiative that led IBM employees to host an innovative virtual strike on 27 th of September 2007 and a global demonstration on 28th of March 2008  http://ibmslprotest.blogspot.com e would expect that sooner or later the Internet would provide the means for such radical approaches; however the interesting part is the theme of the demonstration taking place at IBM Second Life islands \(the equivalent of private space in the Second Life platform\ince IBM employees were against forced outsourcing  2.  Relevant Work  It should be obvious that outsourcing is here to stay so instead of stretching management techniques to fit the new requirements it is important to shift management protocols and educate individuals towards a new breed of employees. The new environment requires people to introduce technology in their daily lives as it happened with the use of email in the 90s. Practitioners and researchers alike found the grounds for applied Information Technology research and development further extending the fields of computer supported cooperative work and Groupware that were introduced in the late 80s. Groupware technologies such as synchronous and asynchronous discussions, video conferencing, email, voice mail and electronic meeting systems make it possible for teams to communicate and collaborate across distance and exchange from one time zone to anothe    Such practices supported by plethora of technological tools made it possible to establish global teams that were heterogeneous in nature and were structured either with a core team and several team members being geographically dispersed or truly globalised without a centre but with all members linked through a complex communication and interaction network. Such global teams are characterised from a number of unique features that differ significantly when compared with traditional collocated teams. Such features include distance \(from each other\me-zone differences, and national culture including language, national traditions, customs, and norms of behaviour    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 Early on it was perceived that these features could be identified ass factors preventing teams from operating efficiently and causing negative impact on performance. It should be noted that global human resources were for years a concept met in software development departments and software engineers were the most common global workers. Instead of celebrating diversity as an opportunity to create versatile teams adaptable to volatile environments work focused on addressing possible needs of such teams. Collaborative software tools were designed to address the particular needs of global teams by enhancing communication, fostering a sense of community, and supporting the software engineering process 1 3 6     A key factor that is unique for geographically dispersed resources is the spatial-temporal distance among team members and the configuration of the members across different sites    O Leary and Cummings propose a list of spatial-temporal indices that account for factors such as a team s size, distribution, use of technology, and its organizational structure [28  E s p i no sa  and Carmel were concerned with similar criteria when investigating the impact of distance, mode of interaction and work overlap associated with software development   t h eref ore ar g u ed th at th i s  s t u d y  s h o u ld be  focused primarily on key criteria forming the spatialtemporal variables that are most appropriate for global team scenarios, including separation of resources \(i.e amount of travelling needed between team members\ and overlap \(i.e. the common working hours that collaborating human resources have\. However, the team size, number of exchanging team members as well as number of could be additional causes of concern in global projects  Along with the spatial-temporal distance criteria mentioned above, elements of culture have been addressed in the literatu lt u r e h a s al w a y s been a  difficult concept for researchers to contain in a scientific measureable approach  f e re n t pers pecti v es regard culture in terms of cultural values including those traits associated with a specific country or national ethos  w e ll as t h os e con n ecte d to a pers on al com m u n i t y   2 4 L iteratu re on cu lt u r al dif f e re n ce prov ides  interesting views when identifying determinants of culture that could be relevant to global teams        In a global context, some individual characteristics are magnified when communication and interactions are affected by intrusive technology. Such characteristics could be as age, sex, race, education level, work experience, and organization tenure, some of which are informational attributes and others job-related [2    Existing work emphasised on how these differences increasingly impact on members of teams as the number and degree of differences within the team increases   For example, gender and work experience often dictate how one thinks about and undertakes tasks Furthermore, demographic attributes such as education previous knowledge, skills and work experience can influence what one perceives to be the mission of something as small as a single meeting or as large as a whole company  3.  Research Agenda  Based on previous research, the factors that seem to affect students enrolled in a global software development course are directly related to the spatial, temporal, and cultural distances that separate various groups. The proposed model combines research on global software teams with cross-cultural studies and recent research related to measures of temporal and geographical distance According to this model, performance can be affected by a group s individual, cultural, and spatial-temporal components.  Furthermore, both the amount and kinds of effects that each of these factors has on the performance of global software teams may be related to the type of task that is performed  3.1  Research methodology  It should be clear that our research agenda is giving emphasis on how distributed software development is affected by the nature of the tasks involved as well as issues relating to the team structure. The research methodology followed is based on analysis of spatialtemporal variables based on a selection of case studies  One of the major factors in characterizing distributed groups is the spatial-temporal distance among team members and the configuration of the members across sites  Leary and Cummings propose a list of spatial-temporal indices that account for factors such as a team s size, distribution, use of technology, and its organizational structure [28  E s p i no sa a n d  Ca r m e l  suggest similar measures in a study that examined the impact of distance, mode of interaction, and work overlap on different costs associated with software development    T h u s t h e s p atial t e m poral v a riables t h at s e e m  most appropriate for this particular study are a team s separation \(amount of travel time among members of the team\d overlap \(a measure of the group s shared work hours\, since the number of members in each group and the number of sites engaged in each project will remain constant throughout our study  Along with spatial-temporal distance measures, different cultural components will also be considered Cu ltu re  operationalis  ter m s o f o u r particu l ar s t u d y   cultural values include those traits associated with a specific country or national ethos  w e ll a s th os e  connected to a personal community \(e.g., school or region  In ou r prev i ou s res e arch  w e e x a m in ed  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


the literature on culture in order to identify determinants of culture that could be relevant to global software development teams    T h e res u lt of t h i s  search was the selection of the Cultural Perspectives Questionnaire \(CPQ\eloped by Maznevsk   The CPQ measures a variety of respondent attitudes, from making decisions based solely on immediate concerns to the degree of belief in one s destiny. While the attributes measured by the CPQ correlate well with culture, as validated in different studie th es e attribu t es cou l d  also be viewed as personality traits \(that just happen to be fairly consistent within cultural groups  Individual characteristics are usually defined as age, sex race, education level, work experience, and organization tenure, some of which are informational attributes and others job-related [2   S t u d i e s sh o w t h at t h e s e  differences have an increasing impact on a group member as the number and degree of differences within the group increas a m p l e g e n d er a n d w o rk e x perien ce  often dictate how one thinks about and undertakes tasks    3.2  Research plan  Prikladnicki et al [31 d i scu ss i n d e tail h o w q u a litati v e  research methods in software engineering affect research planning in DSD. Similarly, in order to understand more fully how cultural, spatial-temporal, and individual factors interact, we intend to test our theories on two different programming tasks: requirements definition and program/testing.  This should allow us to answer some of the questions concerning the relationship between task type and our model. Our preference towards qualitative methods is advocated in the literature since it can provide more meaningful findings and informative results [32    We have identified a number of opportunities for designing pilot studies resembling DSD projects with significant differences in terms of distance, time zones and culture. Furthermore the fact that the research team was geographically dispersed, also resembling a cultural mosaic meant that more interesting findings were collected with respect to our collaboration patterns and communication styles  Our research plan consisted of a number of key phases including: \(i\entifying suitable DSD projects as pilot studies, \(ii\ting collaboration scenarios for participating teams, \(iii\ data relating to communication and handing-off work, \(iv\ conducting a survey for the assessment of the DSD experience and \(v evaluating the case studies against the theoretical base used for the design of the pilot studies  4.  A Setting for Collaborative Work  Although other variables may affect the performance of global software learning teams, we believe that the ones listed in this section are of immediate research interest These factors were selected over other variables because they can be measured within this controlled environment Another criterion is operational capability. Because of the nature of the tasks, the subjects \(i.e., undergraduate students\nd environment \(i.e., programmers using computer-supported collaborative software\ assumed that certain variables such as communication costs and office politics will not be factors in this research Therefore, all of these variables will be made operational in the context of a specific task  The principal investigators from the University of North Texas, Middle East Technical University, Atilim University, the Technological University of Panama, and Middlesex University in the UK will collaborate on the design and implementation of the proposed course materials. Advisors from Travelocity, Lockheed and IBM will assist us by insuring that the activities are both relevant and practical. Instructors will coordinate efforts through the web service infrastructure so that students can gain access to course materials located at each of the participating institutions  Coordinating communication among students at the three universities as well as providing low-cost collaborative environments will be a major challenge for this project The communication media need to support both informal and formal information exchange  ch activities can range from chatting about when a group should meet to designing software modules. The following section discusses the preliminary findings of the first two pilots between UK and US  5.  Key Findings  The project was initiated with two consecutive pilots between US and UK involving 62 students grouped in ten teams. The teams were balanced in terms of participation from UK and US students. There were no guidelines provided in terms of team leadership or coordination style. Both pilots were based on the same scenario with a fictional company contracting the US team for a development project and the UK team being subcontracted due to time limitations of the project. The scenario was also base on the fact that the US team was more experienced than the UK team  The scenario of the first pilot had Vehicle Rentals Ltd having contracting US Students Inc to design and develop a Database Management System for its transatlantic operations. US Students Inc has sub-contracted UK Students Plc to design a relational schema of the database tables based on the notes following an interview with the Managing Director of th e Vehicle Rentals Ltd  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


In the second pilot Vehicle Rentals Ltd has provided a follow up contract to UNT Students Inc for the design and development of the Database Management System. UNT Students Inc has again chosen to sub-contract MDX Students Plc for the delegation of some data manipulation tasks  The time difference between the US and the UK teams were six hours and there were no common days of sessions. That meant that the US team had to create a dedicated session on the first Monday of each pilot to host management meetings. A kick off meeting was provided for students to familiarise with each other and for ice breaking. The initial meeting showed evident differences in terms of culture and perception between participating teams  In terms of collaborative work the assumptions were the following: \(a\e US team should be providing the UK team with the specification brief and clarification of the task requirements and \(b\as essential for both teams to communicate frequently throughout the pilots. Each pilot had duration of two weeks commencing on Mondays. The original messages for each task were scrambled to simulate possible communication and transmission problems. The UK team should identify their information needs and post them for the US team to answer. The fact that the UK teams would start the task late in the afternoon meant that an initial one day handicap was created by the pilot designed  Key differences that were simulated in the pilots were the differences in experience, skills and knowledge between the teams. With the US teams at graduate level and the UK teams at foundation level this would resemble a more experienced team delegating less critical tasks to a subcontracting partner. Also the communication protocol used was decided to fit one of the two teams and in order to monitor all interactions all other communication means were disallowed  The students used three different types of communication video conferencing, synchronous chat and asynchronous threaded discussion board. The communication would be initiated by the UK teams requesting more information and the US teams providing detailed working plans. In several occasions it was possible for the teams to host synchronous communication after scheduling such an event at the video conference session that was used to kick off each pilot. The intervention of instructions remained minimal to simulate project management techniques at this level in software development. Both US and UK instructors facilitated the video conferencing sessions and two briefings were offered at the end of the first week of each pilot to simulate interim project management appraisals  Technical aspects of the collaborative work project included the different communication platforms that one of the teams \(US\was using prior to the project. The fact that the team was experienced in such tools provided an expected outcome with minimum disruption, in line with industry norms. The second pilot provided an additional frustration for the collaborating parties with the task simulating a misalignment of required platforms causing a delay to the project. All teams were successful in dealing with the problem with the more experienced US teams taking responsibility of the interoperability tasks  Data collection was an important aspect of the pilot studies and it was two fold. Initially, during the pilots the team activities were monitored through the virtual learning environment focusing on collecting information such as access times, total time spent in the task each session, number of sessions for each team member navigation pattern leading to and moving from the team discussion, number of messages read, number of posts and actions to task files \(see figure 1\rthermore evaluation data were also collected through two questionnaires focusing on cultural issues and their experience of working in a globalised context   Figure 1: Data collection  During both pilots team members showed dedication in obtaining additional information and maintaining a healthy communication pattern with their collaborating team. As shown in figure 2, each team demonstrated a unique communication thread that could be easily used as a criterion to identify areas of concern and overall performance   Figure 2: Team communication patterns  6. Discussion  Preliminary findings from the first two pilots indicate that some early hypotheses can be formulated with respect to culture, time zone differences, communication patterns technological effects and collaboration issues Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 It must be noted that most participating students are aware of cultural differences since the collaborating universities have impressively high percentages of international students. Therefore it was expected that team members would not have a cultural shock once the pilots would start. However it was evident that both cohorts were expecting a less culturally diverse student body on the other side of the Atlantic. These misperceptions were expressed through informal discussions with the instructors. In some teams culture caused some minor conflicts and affected slightly performance in terms of time needed to resolve conflicts. Surprisingly enough the only case of significant personality differences was caused among UK team members and after investigation it seems that could be attributed to team dynamics outside of the scope of this study  The six hours of time difference was an interesting perspective of the pilot since most students experienced this obstacle to collaboration for th e first time to such an extent. The introductory video conferencing session was proven quite useful since it gave the opportunity to familiarise with team members but also to prepare a schedule of meetings. Students found it quite useful to obtain each other s schedule and set up windows of possible synchronous communication. After the first week it seemed that there were two types of teams, the ones that realised that time delays should have been incorporated to their working schedules and the ones that attempted to neglect the time zone element with devastating effects towards the deadline  In terms of communication there were three main classifications of the collaborating teams. Highly interactive teams accumulated 70-80 messages for each pilot, with most teams having 40-50 posts relating to the tasks. Least interacting teams still achieved more than 20 posts in order to exchange vital information. Team members were not equally active and a clear pattern emerged with self-appointed team coordinators for each collaborating party. It is important to note that participants focused primarily on the task when communicating through the discussion board. Occasions where individuals attempted to use private communication tools were minimal since it was clear that the scenario would not accept such communication  It seems that basic communication tools pose no longer a constraint to efficient collaboration as it was observed in previous work in the 90s. It is evident that chat and discussion facilities are mastered by certain age groups prior to their university experience. However it was necessary to regulate video conferencing sessions between the different teams. Further work should investigate further the use of such tools  Finally collaboration between teams was based on working versions of the key document. There were two types of information exchange, one based on clarification comments and additional information and one relating to the working document. An important issue that was addressed with the help of the instructors was the delay in transmitting initial information in two teams. This issue was magnified due to the lack of synchronous communication and the number of hours each team remained idle due to the time zone difference. This factor will be an important one for future work with respect to the design of collaborative tasks  7. Lessons learnt  Following from the discussion above, it became evident that the pilot studies have caused several concerns regarding the viability of global software development learning teams. The authors are aware of how inappropriate it would be to generalise the lessons learnt from these pilots and attempt to draw conclusions for global teams in the software development industry  However, building on previous work of several funded projects that produced analytical results for various case studies in virtual settings and global team scenarios certain lessons learnt are presented and classified as an initial partly tested set of guidelines for further pilot studies  Quite early in the first pilot it was clear that maturity levels between collaborating students caused difficulties with respect to expectations, maturity, experience and code of conduct. It is necessary to align human resources  since both team effectiveness and communication between individuals may suffer from differences in background, skills, knowledge and experience. This factor was derived from problem caused by the differences in skills and experience of the collaborating teams  The kick off meetings for both pilots were based on synchronous communication that helped those teams that had most of their members participating in the ice breaking socialising part of the pilot. It seems that scheduling the synchronous meeting was a critical factor to distinguish team members according to motivation and interest. The emerged pattern showed that the more successful teams were the ones with their members attending all the synchronous meetings. This factor was derived from the significantly larger number of ice breaking posts in threads of those teams that did not participate in the synchronous meetings  The use of multimedia richness to enhance communication and collaboration was critical to overcome the barriers of culture, experience, work pattern and understanding of the task. It was clear that the video conferencing sessions helped to establish rapport and further support collaboration in those cases where remote teams allowed some personal interaction in a less formal context. This factor was derived from evidence of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


increased progress following the video conference and synchronous chat sessions helping team members to resolve conflicts and clarify misunderstandings relating to the task  As in most student-based pilots the use of participation incentives becomes even more necessary. The volunteering nature of the project carrying a rather small incentive in terms of extra credit and a small prize meant that more students had the opportunity to opt out from the study. An interesting pattern emerged with participation being affected by the level of cohesion that different groups showed.  Furthermore, it seemed that the second pilot \(being closely related to the first one and following after a short break after the completion of the initial task did not attract the same level of interest and there was inconsistency in terms of motivation for communication collaboration and exchange of ideas. Based on some early feedback comments, it seems that interest levels were affected by the nature of the task \(similar database projects\e team collaboration pattern \(the less active members failed to integrate even if it was only for the second pilot\d the rigid induction process \(although synchronous meetings were offered for the second pilot, it was difficult for least involved team members to catch up and identify their roles\This factor was derived from the different participation patterns of team members according to their perception of the provided incentives  It seems that several teams were positively affected by individuals who showed a lot of enthusiasm leading to heroic efforts and personal intervention These teams were the ones that at critical stages of the collaboration certain key people from both universities would proceed and finish off the deliverables. They were proactive at undertaking a team leader or facilitator role. This factor was derived from those teams that included individual team members undertaking full responsibility towards the end of the task in a completer-finisher role  Another critical aspect that affected all teams during both pilots was the dissemination of information that was based on the briefings posted on the virtual learning environment. The fact that part of the message was initially scrambled and that time zone differences posed a six hour delay meant that collaboration was significantly affected. This factor was derived from the communication of team members with the research team seeking further opportunities of briefings, leading to a number of additional briefing sessions  There is need to further research interaction and communication patterns of participants. For example some inconsistencies were observed with respect to loafing in different teams. Mr S.A. read 267 articles and posted 66 while Miss R.A. read 1016 followed by 28 posts with the worse example of loafing being Mr M.A with 5119 items read and only 2 posted messages Altogether there seems to be an association between the reading and posting patterns. There is also a correlation between the time spent in the environment and the reading of the communication within the team but not with the number of posts. It seems that a significant part of the team spent their time mainly for reading the specification and clarifying the task. This factor was derived from the different results and progress monitored in teams with significantly different communication patterns in terms of consistency, frequency and depth of information  The task domain databases\ affects the end result of the communicating team since it is quite practical and requires less clarification after the initial briefing installation and user help issues are covered. A more theoretical project would require further communication and decision making from the teams. This factor was derived from the different communication patterns followed for different tasks  Factors Source Impact Alignment of human resources TF/RA/MC High Synchronous communication TF/MC/CM Medium Multimedia richness CM/CL/MC Medium Participation incentives RA/CL/MC High Interest levels TF/RA/MC Medium Personal intervention MC/CL/RA High Information dissemination CM/MC/CL Medium Communication patterns CM/CL High Task domain CM/CL/MC High Deliverables MC/RA/CL Progress assessment MC/CL Key MC management/coordination  TF team formation RA role allocation CM communication CL collaboration Table 1: Factors affecting global teams  Furthermore, the design of any deliverables should be based on the needs of each team rather than the task leading to clear agenda items for each meeting that are owned by the different teams. This factor was derived from the communication patterns following a structure similar to the one required for the deliverables Progress assessment should be also based on the different goals of each team rather than the task overall goals. This factor was derived from the different agenda present in the collaborating teams  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 Figure 3: Framework for DSD influential factors  As shown in figure 3, the factors affecting global teams and influence DSD can be classified according to the two key variants concerning this project, namely task and team complexity. One of the objectives for the remaining two years of the project will be to identify ways of measuring and providing a more accurate classification of such factors. In the figure the horizontal axis shows how these factors relate to the complexity of the task in hand The vertical axis prioritises the factors affecting global teams according to the structure, communication and collaboration complexity of the team  8. Future Work - Towards a Third Pilot  From the previous sections it is evident that a number of factors affecting DSD and the work of global teams can be identified and their prioritisation may differ significantly depending on the structure of teams, the project tasks and external influences. Our experiences with the first two pilots concluded that it is important to investigate further our hypotheses in more realistic scenarios of distributed development, allowing alternative team structures and focusing on tasks from different stages of the lifecycle, including requirements capture design and programming, proving more demanding than testing in the way teams collaborate and communicate  The previous section provides an overview of the findings and lessons learnt from the two pilot studies between US and UK teams. A different project was assigned to teams residing in the US, Turkey and Panama. The three teams were asked to develop a system that could be used to create and manage groups.  Each country team was asked to deliver one of the components for this system. Each country team s deliverable was further refined into sub components which could be assigned to individual members of the country team. All three teams were required to collaborate on a common interface that supported each of their individual components  Although the factors affecting global teams were identified prior to the beginning of the third pilot they did not affect the design of the task. The aim of the project is to identify different collaboratio n settings and a variety of tasks that are feasible in global software teams. The identification of issues r elating to role allocation, team formation, management and coordination of such teams will have a different weighting according to the task and team structures  9.  Conclusion  This paper provided the basis for further work in global software development teams. The paper discussed the research foundation and provided an overview of the key aspects for the underlying research. It seems that setting up global team simulations is feasible in an educational context but certain difficulties exist when aligning curriculum, working ethos, deadlines and incentives. It is envisaged that the research outcomes could be \(after the evaluation of the industrial patterns\iding evidence of good practice and guidelines for projects exploiting the positive effects of global teams and dispersed resources  References  1  Agerup, K. and Busser, M. \(2004\e-study on collaborative learning in distributed, cross-cultural teams, International Conference on Engineering Education, Gainesville, Fl., October 16-21 2  Aguinis, H. and Henle, C. \(2003\The search for universals in cross-cultural organizational behavior in J. Greenberg \(Eds.\anizational behavior: The state of the science \(2nd ed.\m Associated Mahawah, NJ 3  Balthazard, P, Potter, R. and Warren, J. \(2004 Expertise, extraversion and group interaction styles as performance indicators in virtual teams, The Data Base for Advances in Information Systems, Winter 2004, 35, 1, 41-64 4  Bradner, E. and Mark, G. \(2002\ distance matters: Effects on cooperation persuasion and deception, Proceedings of 2002 ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, November 5  Carmel, E. \(1999\ software development teams: collaborating across borders time zones Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ 6  Clear, T and Daniel, M. \(2000\ing groupware for international collaborative learning, ASEE/IEEE Frontiers in Education, Kansas City, Mo, October 1821 7  Cramton, C. and Hinds, P. \(2005\ubgroup dynamics in internationally distributed teams Ethnocentrism or cross-national learning? Research in Organizational Behavior, 26, 231-263 8  Dafoulas G. and L. Macaulay, \(2000 Decision Making Issues in Software Engineering: Investigating Factors Affecting Team and Role Conflicts in Collaborating Virtual Teams in Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work in Design, November 30  December 1 2000, Hong Kong, IEEE Computer Society  LOW Task complexity HIGH HIGH   Team Complexity    LOW Alignment of human resources Synchronous communication Multimedia richness Participation incentives Interest levels Personal intervention Information dissemination Communication patterns Task domai n Progress assessment Deliverables Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


9  Dafoulas G. and L. Macaulay, \(2000ges Assisting Knowledge Management in Virtual Software Teams Coping with Location, Time and Cultural Differences in Proceedings of the Cooperative Internet Computing 2000, 29 November 2000, Hong Kong, IEEE Computer Society, ISBN 962 367 288 8 10  Dafoulas G. and L. Macaulay, \(2001s Investigating Cultural Differences in Virtual Software Teams in Proceedings of BIT World 2001: Enabling Cultural Awareness, 4-6 June 2001, Cairo, Egypt, AIS IRMA, ISBN 0 905304 36 5 11  Dafoulas G. and L. Macaulay, \(2001 Facilitating Group Formation and Role Allocation in Software Engineering Groups in Proceedings of AICCSA 2001: ACS/IEEE International Conference on Computer Systems and Applications, 25-29 June Beirut, Lebanon, IEEE Computer Society \(TCSE TCCA\BN 0 7695 1165 1 12  Dafoulas G. and Macaulay, L., \(2002 Investigating Cultural Differences in Virtual Software Teams in Electronic Journal on Information Systems in Developing Countries \(EJISDC\, Vol. 7 Issue 4 January 2002\p.1-14 13  Dibbern, J.; Winkler, J.; Heinzl, A. \(2008 Explaining Variations in Client Extra Costs between Software Projects Offshored to India". In: MIS Quarterly, Volume 32\(2\333-366 14  Espinosa, J.A. and Carmel, E. \(2004\he effect of time separation on coordination costs in global software teams: A dyad model, Proceedings of the 37th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, IEEE: in Big Island, HI 15  Espinosa, J.A. and Carmel, E. \(2004b\The impact of time separation on coordination in global software teams: a conceptual foundation, Software Process Improvement and Practice, 8:00-000 16  Fruchter, R. and Townsend, A. \(2003\lti-cultural dimensions and multi-modal communication in distributed, cross-disciplinary teamwork, Int. J Engen. Ed., 19, 1, 53-61 17  Hall, E.T. \(1976\ond culture, Anchor Press Garden City NJ 18  Hildenbrand, Tobias and Rothlauf, Franz and Geisser, Michael and Heinzl, Armin and Kude Thomas \(2008\Approaches to Collaborative Software Development". In: Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Engineering Complex Distributed Systems \(ECDS 2008\n conjunction with International Conference on Complex Intelligent, and Software Intensive Systems \(CISIS 2008\p 523-528, IEEE Computer Society Barcelona, Spain 19  Hofstede, G. \(1991\ultures and organizations Software of the mind, McGraw-Hill, UK 20  Jehn, K. A., Northcraft, G. B., & Neale, M. A. \(1997 Opening Pandora's Box: A field study of Diversity Conflict, and Performance in Workgroups \(Working Paper\. Philadelphia, PA: Wharton School 21  Last, M., Daniels, M., House, M. and Woodroffe, M 2002\ Learning from students: Continuous improvement in internationa collaboration. ITiCSE June 24-26, Aarhus, Denmark 22  Macaulay, L., Keeling, K.A., McGoldrick, P.J Dafoulas, G. and Kalaitzakis, M. \(2007\ Co-evolving E-tail and Online Communities: Empirically-Based Conceptual Framework. International Journal of eCommerce. \(2007 \(12,1 23  Maznevski, M. \(1994\ Understanding our differences: Performance in decision making groups with diverse members, Human Relations, 47, 5, 531 552 24  McNaught, C. \(2003\upporting the global eteacher, International Journal of Training and Development, 7, 4, 287-302 25  Medows, C. \(1996\ork:  creating technology with international teams, Unpublished doctoral dissertation, Harvard University 26  Miettinen, A. \(2000\What Do We Know So Far about Communicating in Distributed Work Teams Paper presented at the National Communication Association Conference Rhetoric and communication in the 21st Century, June 14 June 20. Jyväskyl Finland 27  Minor, W. R. \(1999\tranger in a stranger land: The American project manager working abroad, PM Network, 13, 2, 31-34 28  O Leary, M. and Cummings, J. \(2002\The spatial temporal, and configurational characteristics of geographic dispersion in work teams, in Presented at the Academy of Management Conference, Denver Co http://www.managingteams.org  29  Oza, N., Hall, T., Rainer, A., Grey, S Critical Factors in Software Outsourcing A Pilot Study In WISER, pp. 67-71, Newport Beach, California, USA 2004 30  Polzer, J., Crisp, C., Jarvenpaa, S. and Kim, J \(2006 Geographically-colocated subgroups in globally dispersed teams: A test of the faultline hypothesis working paper, 04-007 31  Prikladnicki, R., Evaristo, R., Damian, D. and Audy J.L.N. \(2008\onducting Qualitative Research in an International and Distributed Research, in Proceedings of the 41 st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2008 32  Redmiles, David and van der Hoek, André and AlAni, Ban and Hildenbrand, Tobias and Quirk Stephen and Sarma, Anita and Silveira Silva Filho Roberto and de Souza, Cleidson and Trainer, Erik 2007\ "Continuous Coordination: A New Paradigm to Support Globally Distributed Software Development Projects". In WIRTSCHAFTSINFORMATIK, Volume 49 Sonderheft\28-S38 33  Tsui, A., Egan, T. and Tsin, K., \(1995\ersity in research: lessons from demography research. In Martin Chemers, S. Oskamp, and M. A. Costanza Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Eds.\, Diversity in Organizations, Sage Publications Thousand Oaks, CA., 191-219 34  Wagner, W., Pfeffer, J. and O'Reilly, C. \(1984 Organizational demography and turnover in topmanagement groups, Administrative Science Quarterly, 29, 1, 74-92 35  Wohlin, C., Höst, M., Henningsson, K Empirical Research Methods in Software Engineering In: R Conradi and A.I. Wang \(Eds.\ERNET 20012003, LNCS 2765, pp. 7-23, Springer, 2003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


This figure presents the data flow through main blocks that can be used a few times and special blocks that must execute only particular functions Here also Configurator of chain and Sequences library for WiMAX/UMTS modules are equipped First one is responsible for right construction of next processing path and second one stores necessary number of elements After signal verification system is reconfigured according to input data and with using the chosen protocol type The OUTPUT connects to radio link and then signal must be transmitted over one of six channel types And at the reception side we configure the receiver in relation to transmitted mode 5 HARDWARE PLATFORM SELECTION Current technologies in a hardware environment allow to test our system in real-time implementation There are a couple of DSP based platforms that can be selected for validation from Lyrtech Inc the Small Form Factor SFF Software Communication Architecture SCA Development the Small Form Factor SFF Softwaredefined Radio SDR Development Platform the Small Form Factor SFF Software-defined Radio SDR Evaluation Module 20 All these platforms are based on TMS320DM6446 DMP SoC from Texas Instruments 21 For the proposed SDR based system we chose the SFFSDR Evaluation board see Figure 13 as far as this platform supports WiMAX technology model based design tools accelerating prototyping implementation of all protocols layers for complete radio stacking extra boards operates with 297MHz ARM926EJ-s RISC CPU and 594MHz C64x DSP in sense of power management this module has MSP430 MCU Due to an availability of Virtex-4 SX35 FPGA from Xilinx 22 this module can perform implementation of full modem processing functions that is very important feature in meaning of multi-protocol architecture of our system We are able to vary our requirements to each protocol inside the same hardware structure Figure 13 SFF SDR development platform by Lyrtech 6 PROTOTYPING THE WiMAX/UMTS SYSTEM The WiMAX/UMTS system is implemented in high-level language as C with the class library The main accent was done on the correct form of the signal processing sequence The path for WiMAX or UMTS signal is determined in the beginning and system should verify its entity leads the system in a relevant direction The main goal of this software implementation is to check how our system can handle the input signal sequence The simulation was carried out for following parameters for each subsystem For UMTS we consider transport block with 1280 bits size frame size is 2400 bits channelization code with 16 chips sequence For WiMAX we generate the bit block is equal to 1280 bits however during channel coding operation this block is divided on turbo coding block that include 384 bits The size of turbo coding block forms from the block determination corresponding modulation type and number of subchannels During software verification we obtained that our proposed model can separate different paths subject to a type of an inter sequence in the software environment The framework of our WiMAX/UMTS system went through one scenario step and now we are directed to an extension of this model For the more detailed system visualization we integrate our C code modules into MATLAB library by means of proper dynamic linking libraries dll compiled by using the MATLAB C compiler Each block can be formed with extended parameters Modules with C code configurate the system work in a host This host implementation will present a prototype This prototype will help to analyze future real-time hardware implementation MATLAB prototype can also provide debugging of real system the result of real system must be equal to our MATLAB prototype Next step of the work development and verification is to implement it into the hardware platform based on DSP DSP based platform allows to organize signal processing in a digital presentation that serves SDR based part of our general system 7 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we considered the framework of WiMAX/UMTS baseband level system for mobile device in UL transmission direction We presented the different signal processing structures based on OFDM and WCDMA physical layer procedures Our research work is mainly devoted to developing the approach of seamless switching between different subsystems that can be realized by SDR technology implementation To this end we proposed a possible solution to allow coexistence of different data transmission technologies 11 


The position of SDR blocks in common UMTS/WiMAX architecture for mobile terminal was shown in this paper We presented the different blocks of each subsystem and have identified three blocks which can be implemented as common SDR blocks These blocks include channel coding module interleaver module and data mapping module We also demonstrated the work of our system in the software environment Next steps of the UMTS/WiMAX system development are preparation of the specification and implementation of all possible scenarios Each scenario will include particular blocks parameters and common description of main blocks But we have to be carefully in case of main blocks description because there are a plenty of features 8 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We gratefully acknowledge the company Arslogica that kindly provided us the hardware support for our experimental studies 9 REFERENCES 1 A Samukic UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System development of standards for the third generation Proc of 1998 IEEE GLOBECOM Conf Sydney AUS Nov 8-12 1998 vol.4 pp.19761983 2 N Fourty T Val P Fraisse and J.-J Mercier Comparative analysis of new high data rate wireless communication technologies From Wi-Fi to WiMAX Proc of the IEEE Autonomic and Autonomous Systems and International Conf on Networking and Services ICAS-ICNS 05 Oct 23-28 2005 pp.66-66 3 M Komara SDR Architecture Ideally Suited for Evolving 802.16 WiMAX AirNet Communications SDR Forum Exhibition 2004 4 I Held 0 Klein A Chen C.-Y Huang and V Ma Receiver Architecture and Performance of WLAN Cellular Multi-Mode and Multi-Standard Mobile Terminals Proc of 2004 IEEE VTC Fall Conf Los Angeles CA Sept 26-29 2004 vol 3 pp 2248 2253 5 IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Part 16 Air Interface for Fixed Broadband Wireless Access Systems 2004 6 R Weigel and L Maurer  D Pimingsdorfer A Springer RF Transceiver Architectures for W-CDMA Systems Like UMTS State of the Art and Future Trends Proc of the Intern Symp on Acoustic Wave Devices for Future Mobile Communication Systems Chiba JP March 5-7 2001 pp 25-34 7 P-W Fu and K.C Chen A Programmable Transceiver Structure of Multi-rate OFDM-CDMA for Wireless Multimedia Communications Proc of 2001 IEEE Vehicular Technology Conf VTC-Fall 2001 Atlantic City NJ Oct.7-11 2001 vol 3 pp 1942-1946 8 L Zhigang L Wei Z Yan G Wei A Multi-standard SDR Base Band Platform Proc of 2003 International Conference on Computer Networks and Mobile Computing Shanghai PRC Oct 20-23 2003 pp 461 464 9 C Moy A A Kountouris L Rambaud and P Le Corre  Full Digital IF UMTS Transceiver for Future Software Radio Systems  Proc of ERSA 01 Conf Las Vegas NV June 25-28 2001 10 3GPP TS 25.201 Physical layer general description 11 K.R Santhi and G.S Kumaran Migration to 4 G Mobile IP based Solutions Proc of International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services/Advanced International Conference Feb 2006 pp 76 76 12 S Zhu M Song Y Li J Song and F Ren Simulation platform of WCDMA based on software defined radio Proc of 2nd ACM International Conference on Mobile Technology Applications and Systems Nov 2005 pp 1-5 13 L Ma and D Jia The Competition and Cooperation of WiMAX WLAN and 3G Proc of 2nd International Conference on Mobile Technology Applications and Systems Nov 2005 pp 15 14 J Mitola III Software Radio Architecture ObjectOriented Approaches to Wireless Systems new ed Wiley New York 2004 15 R Seungwan 0 Donsung S Gyungchul and K Han Perspective of the next generation mobile communications and services Proc of IEEE 2004 Int Symp on Personal Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications PIMRC 2004 Barcelona SP 5-8 Sept 2004 vol.1 pp 643-647 16 E Biglieri Coding for Wireless Channels  Springer New York 2005 12 


17 3GPP TS 25.212 Multiplexing and channel coding FDD 18 IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part 16 Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband Wireless Access Systems Amendment 2 Physical and Medium Access Control Layers for Combined Fixed and Mobile Operation in Licensed Bands and Corrigendum 1 2006 pp 0_1 822 19 3GPP TS 25.211 Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto physical channels FDD 20 Data sheet from Lyrtech Inc http available at htp c hwwkneopusff _.l/p.s/lrtehs _sr d21]D ateforomTdf 21 Data sheet from Texas Instruments http available at 22 Data sheet from Xilinx http available at httll/www.xilinx.com 23 L Hanzo W Webb and T Keller Singleand Multicarrier Quadrature Amplitude Modulation  Wiley New York 2000 titled Wireless and Satellite Communications  The research interests of Dr Sacchi are mainly focused on wideband mobile and satellite transmission systems based on space time andfrequency diversity multi-user receivers based on non conventional techniques neural networks genetic algorithms higher-order statistics-based receivers etc cross-layer PHY-MAC design and high-frequency broadband satellite communications He is currently local coordinator for University of Trento of research projects dealing with reconfigurable communication platforms based on MIMO techniques and space-time signal processing ICONA project funded by MIUR and with exploitation of W-band for broadband satellite communications WA VE programs funded by ASI Claudio Sacchi is author and co-author of more than 50 papers published in international journals and conferences and reviewer for international journals and magazines IEEE Transactions on Communications IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications IEEE Communications Letters IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Electronics Letters Wireless Networks IEEE Communications Magazine etc Dr Sacchi is member of the Organizing Committees and Technical Program Committees of international conferences like ICIP ICC GLOBECOM ACM-MOBIMEDIA etc Claudio Sacchi is member of IEEE M'01 SM'07 BIOGRAPHIES Olga Zlydareva is a PhD student of the University of Trento Italy She obtained her Master degree in Design Electronics Systems with specialization in High Radio Frequency Devices from MATI Moscow State Aviation Technological University named after KE Tsiolkovsky Moscow Russia Her research interests have oriented on the Software Defined Radio Technology Wireless Technologies Cellular Technologies Tunable devices Multi-standard systems Multi-protocol systems Physical layer of mobile devices Reconfigurability and Reprogramming of mobile devices The recent research focuses on the development of the baseband level of multistandard mobile devices based on SDR technology Claudio Sacchi was born in Genoa Italy in 1965 He obtained the Laurea degree in Electronic Engineering and the Ph.D in Space Science and Engineering at the University of Genoa Italy Since August 2002 Dr Sacchi has been holding aposition as assistant professor at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Trento Italy In 2004 he was appointed by the Department of Information and Communication Technology of the University of Trento as leader of the Research Program 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


