  1 A Look inside the Juno Mission to Jupiter 12  Richard S. Grammier Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Califor nia Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive, M/S 301-320 Pasadena, CA 91109 818-354-0596 Richard.s.grammier@jpl.nasa.gov  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5 09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1582, Version 6, Updated December 16, 2008 Abstract 227Juno, the second mission within the New Frontiers Program, is a Jupiter polar orbiter mission 
designed to return high-priority science data that spans across multiple divisions within NASA\222s Science Mission Directorate. Juno\222s science objectives, coupled with the natural constraints of a cost-capped, PI-led mission and the harsh environment of Jupiter, have led to a very unique mission and spacecraft design The mission and spacecraft design accommodates the required payload suite of instruments in a way that maximizes science data collection and return, maintains a simplified orbital operations approach, and meets the many challenges associated with operating a spin-stabilized, solarpowered spacecraft in Jupiter\222s high radiation and magnetic environment. The project\222s efforts during the preliminary 
design phase have resulted in an integrated design and operations approach that meets all science objectives retains significant technical, schedule and cost margins, and has retired key risks and challenges. As a result, Juno has been authorized to proceed with the detailed design phase and work toward an August 2011 launch T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  H ISTORY 2  
3  P RIMARY S CIENCE O BJECTIVES 2  4  I NSTRUMENT P AYLOAD 3  5  F IELDS AND P ARTICLES I NSTRUMENTS 3  6  S 
PACECRAFT O VERVIEW 4  7  M ISSION AND O PERATIONS D ESIGN 4  7  S PACECRAFT D ESIGN S OLUTIONS 8  8  S OLAR A RRAYS 8 
 9  V AULT D ESIGN 8  10  S TELLAR R EFERENCE U NIT SRU 9  11  O THER S PACECRAFT D ESIGN C HARACTERISTICS 9  12 
 C ONCLUSION 10  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT 10  B IOGRAPHY 10   1  I NTRODUCTION  The Juno mission to Jupiter is expected to significantly advance current theories of th e Solar System\222s origin and evolution. Juno will launch in August 2011, perform two deep-space maneuvers approximate ly one year after launch 
perform an Earth-gravity assist approximately 26 months after launch, and achieve Jupiter orbit insertion in 2016 after a five-year journey. Juno will investigate the gas giant for one year, operating a suite of eight instruments to meet its scientific objectives. After completing one year of orbital science, the spacecraft will de orbit into Jupiter for the purpose of planetary protection  Figure 1 \226 The Juno Spacecraft in Orbit about Jupiter 


  2 This paper will describe the primary science objectives of the Juno mission and how these objectives have been translated into the instrument suite and mission and spacecraft designs. This will include a discussion of key requirements and how these requirements have been realized in the current design as well as an examination of the associated technical ch allenges and design solutions A brief history on the mission will be provided, followed by a description of Juno\222s primary science objectives. Next, the scientific payload will be intr oduced with a brief description of each instrument and associated science objectives/requirements. A br ief overview of the spacecraft will then be followed by a more detailed treatment of the mission design that primarily focuses upon the orbital operations and how the design has evolved to satisfy key science and operational requirements. Finally, a more indepth look at the spacecraft w ill be conducted to describe how its design has been influenced by the science and mission requirements, as well as the associated technical challenges 2  H ISTORY  Juno was selected in May 2005 as the second mission in the New Frontiers Program within NASA\222s Science Mission Directorate \(SMD\Juno was originally scheduled for a 2009 launch opportunity, but was subsequently slipped to a 2010 launch and, ultimately, a 2011 launch \(within the first year following selection\due to factors not specifically related to Juno itself. This resulted in an extended Phase B period \(almost three years\Phase B allowed the project to dedicate much more effort to requirements and preliminary design maturation, as well as to focus on key risk-reduction activities. As a result, Juno had a very successful Preliminary Design Review \(PDR\ained authorization from NASA Headquarters to proceed into Phase C effective September 1, 2008 3  P RIMARY S CIENCE O BJECTIVES  The overall goal of the Juno Mission is to improve our understanding of the solar system by understanding the origin and evolution of Jupiter. The science objectives for the Juno investigation are 1  Atmospheric Composition \227 Juno investigates the formation and origin of Jupiter\222s atmosphere and the potential migration of planets through the measurement of Jupiter\222s global abundance of oxygen water\trogen \(ammonia a Measure the global O/H ratio \(water abundance\n Jupiter\222s atmosphere b Measure the global N/H ratio \(ammonia\n Jupiter\222s atmosphere 2  Atmospheric Structure \227 Juno investigates variations in Jupiter\222s deep atmosphere related to meteorology composition, temperature profiles, cloud opacity, and atmospheric dynamics a Determine microwave opacity as a function of latitude and altitude \(pressure b Determine depths of cloud and atmospheric features such as zones, belts, spots, and map dynamical variations in ammonia and water c. Characterize microwav e opacity of the polar atmosphere region 3  Magnetic Field \227 Juno investigates the fine structure of Jupiter\222s magnetic field, providing information on its internal structure and the nature of the dynamo a Map the magnetic field of Jupiter, globally, by direct measurement of the field at close-in radial distances b Determine the magnetic spectrum of the field providing information on the dynamo core radius c Investigate secular variations \(long-term time variability\f the magnetic field 4  Gravity Field \227 Gravity sounding by Juno explores the distribution of mass inside the planet a Determine the gravity field to provide constraints on the mass of the core b Determine the gravity field to detect the centrifugal response of the planet to its own differential rotation \(winds\ depths of kilo-bars and greater c Investigate the response to tides raised by the Jovian satellites 5  Polar Magnetosphere \227 Juno explores Jupiter\222s threedimensional polar magnetosphere and aurorae a Investigate the prim ary auroral processes responsible for particle acceleration b Characterize the field-ali gned currents that transfer angular momentum from Jupiter to its magnetosphere c Identify and characterize auroral radio and plasma wave emissions associated with particle acceleration d Characterize the nature location and spatial scale of auroral features 


  3 Table 1 \226 Instrument Mapping to Science Objectives Instrument Description Science In vestigation Associated Objective Gravity Science X- & Ka-band uplink and downlink Interior Structure 4 Magnetometer \(MAG Vector fluxgates \(FGM Interior Structure & Magnetic Dynamo 3 Microwave Radiometer \(MWR 6 wavelengths \(1.3-50 cm Deep atm. sounding composition 1, 2 Juno Energetic particle Detector Instrument \(JEDI TOF vs. energy, ion & electron sensors Auroral distributions, ion composition 5 Jovian Auroral Distributions Experiment \(JADE Ion mass spec. & electron analyzers Auroral distributions, ion composition 5 Waves 4-m. elec. dipole and search coil Radio & Plasma waves 5 Ultraviolet Spectrometer \(UVS FUV spec tral imager Spatial & temporal auroral structure 5 Juno Infra-Red Auroral Mapper JIRAM IR imager and IR spectrometer Auroral structure, troposphere structure, atmospheric sounding 2, 5  4  I NSTRUMENT P AYLOAD  To satisfy the science objectives described previously, Juno carries a complement of eight scientific instruments. Refer to Table 1 for a mapping of the scientific objectives to each instrument The Microwave Radiometer \(MWR\s a Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\delivered instrument that consists of six peripherally mounted antennas, radiometers, and control/calibration electronics for six frequencies between 600 MHz and 22 GHz. The MWR is used for deep atmospheric sounding and composition The magnetometer \(MAG\is a Goddard Space Flight Center \(GSFC\ivered instrument consisting of dual fluxgate magnetometers as well as co-located star cameras \(for precise attitude reference measurement structure. The MAG is used to investigate the interior structure and magnetic dynamo of Jupiter The Gravity Science experiment uses both X-band and Kaband telecommunications elements on the spacecraft as well as on the ground to provide simultaneous X/Ka up/down signals to observe the Doppler shift while close to Jupiter This experiment is used to determine the even-normalized gravity coefficients J4 to J 14. The spacecraft X-band system is provided by JPL. The Ka translator on board the spacecraft is contributed by th e Italian Space Agency \(ASI The ground elements are provided by the Deep Space Network \(DSN\ the Goldstone, CA station \(DSS-25 5  F IELDS AND P ARTICLES I NSTRUMENTS  Juno carries a suite of five field and particles instruments to study and characterize the thr ee-dimensional structure of Jupiter\222s polar magnetosphere and aurora. This suite of instruments measures the fiel ds \(magnetic field, plasma waves, and radio emissions nd charged particles \(ions and electrons\ains ultravio let images of the auroral emissions to provide context for the in-situ observations The Jovian Auroral Distribution Experiment \(JADE instrument provided by the Southwest Research Institute SwRI\easures the pitch angle and energy distributions of electrons as well as the time variable, pitch angle, energy and composition distribution of ions over both polar regions. JADE consists of three electron analyzers and one ion mass spectrometer The Jupiter Energetic-particle Detector Instrument \(JEDI also measures electrons and ions in the Jovian polar region However, JEDI, which utilizes three sensors measures different energy ranges than the JADE instrument. Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory JHU/APL\des the JEDI instrument The Waves instrument, provided by the University of Iowa measures the radio and plasma wave emissions associated with the auroral phenomena in Jupiter\222s polar magnetosphere to reveal the processes responsible for particle acceleration. The experi ment consists of an electric dipole antenna and a magnetic search coil, along with associated receivers An Ultraviolet Spectrometer \(UVS\ provided by SwRI, is used to character ize the ultraviolet auroral emissions and consists of a telescope/spectrometer with associated electronics The Juno Infra-Red Auroral Mapper \(JIRAM\instrument acquires infrared \(IR\ages and spectra of Jupiter to investigate auroral structure and troposphere structure, and to perform atmospheric sounding. JIRAM consists of both an infrared imager and an IR spectrometer. This investigation is provided by the Italian Space Agency \(ASI 


  4 Though not a scientific instrument, there is a visible camera JunoCam\ed as part of the payload. JunoCam is intended to capture color images of Jupiter \(and its poles and is being provided by Ma lin Space Science Systems for education and public outreach/engagement 6  S PACECRAFT O VERVIEW  To provide context for the more detailed treatment of the mission design and orbital science operations, a brief introduction to the Juno spacecraft is provided herein Refer to Figure 2 for an ove rall view of the spacecraft Due to the cost and uncertain availability of a radioactive power source \(as well as the a ssociated complexity spacecraft is solar powered. Si nce the solar incidence at Jupiter is only 2% to 3% of th at of Earth, the spacecraft had to be designed in such a way as to be able to provide sufficient power for the instrument suite while minimizing overall power requirements at Jupiter. This led to a decision to select a spin-stabilized spacecraft to avoid power-hungry reaction wheels. Selection of a spin-stab ilized spacecraft was also influenced by the nature of the science payload data-acquisition needs and a desire to avoid the complexities of instrument scan platforms and associated complex spacecraft maneuvers and pointing re quirements The placement of instrument sensors and antennas on the edges of the deck and periphery of the structure complemented the use of a spin-stabilized spacecraft and maintained operational simplic ity. As the spacecraft slowly spins in its polar orbit over Jupiter, all instrument sensors have the fields of view of Jupiter required to obtain their measurements while avoiding complex pointing maneuvers or scan platforms. Refer to Figure 3 for an illustration of instrument sensor locations as described Figure 4 illustrates the spacecraft view of Jupiter and orientation during orbital operations 7  M ISSION AND O PERATIONS D ESIGN  A brief overview of the mission was previously provided in the Introduction section of this paper. This section will primarily focus upon the science mission design following Jupiter arrival. Following Jupiter orbit insertion \(JOI\the spacecraft is placed into a 78-day polar orbit and subsequently, performs a main engine burn to achieve the desired 11-day polar orbit re quired for science operations The large capture orbit was chosen to reduce the amount of propellant required for JOI while providing a unique opportunity for early science observations. The science orbit is a high-inclination polar orbit characterized by apojove of approximately 39 Jupiter radii \(39Rj\jove of approximately 1.06 Rj and an altitude of approximately 4600 km above Jupiter\222s cloud tops. This 11-day polar orbit was selected for many mission-enabling reasons. First, the high inclination \(90 degrees 261 10 degrees\ose perijove allows the spacecraft to dip below Jupiter\222s very high radiation belt \(refer to Figure 5\gnificantly minimizes the spacecraft\222s overall mission radiation dosage As primary science data collection occurs around \261 3 hours of perijove, the instrument and spacecraft sensor operations occur in the lowest radiation environment possible, thereby minimizing effects on such things as instrument sensor signal-to-noise ratios and possible star tracker outages Another advantage of this orbit is that the close perijove and high inclination provide greater resolution for key science such as the MWR and gravity science experiments. This orbit also enables full global coverage of Jupiter during the one year of mission operations, which is key to the magnetometer \(MAG\ment  Figure 2 \226 Overall View of Juno Spacecraft 


  5  Figure 3 \226 Spacecraft exploded view with Instrument Highlights  Figure 4 \226 Spacecraft Orientation for Sc ience Observations at Jupiter 


  6  Figure 5 \226 Juno\222s orbit dips be low Jupiter\222s radiation belts  For the MAG to achieve its desired science and global coverage, the longitude spacing at the equatorial crossings must be equally spaced. Conse quently, the first 15 science orbits provide for 24\260 longitude spacing for full global coverage. Just after the perijove of the 15 th science orbit, a maneuver is performed to adjust the longitude crossing by 12\260. After the last 15 science orbits \(for a total of 30\, the MAG experiment will have completed a global map of Jupiter\222s magnetic field with 12\260 longitudinal spacing \(refer to Figure 6\Another key characteristic of the science orbit selected for Juno is that the line of apsides of the orbit precesses due to Jupiter\222s oblaten ess. This has the affect in the latter half of the scie nce mission of the spacecraft passing through more of Jupiter\222s radiation belts and increasing its total radiation dose significantly. Thus through the first half of th e mission, the spacecraft and instruments only receive about 20% of the total radiation dose. This is complemented in the science mission design by the fact that the majority of Juno\222s desired science return can be accomplished within the first 15 science orbits when the radiation dose is lowest \(refer to Figures 5 and 7 as illustrations of these orbital characteristics\An additional characteristic of the mission de sign is that the entire mission occurs between solar conjunctions, thus further enabling a solar-powered mission As previously noted in the sp acecraft overview, the use of a spin-stabilized spacecraft and placement of the instrument sensors has led to simplified orbital science operations Essentially, only two operational science templates are necessary. The first template is the MWR pass. This orbit is characterized by th e spacecraft spin plan e aligned with the center of Jupiter and the MWR antennas aligned with nadir During MWR science orbits, all other science instrument observations are active, with the exception of gravity science \(telecom\. The second template is the Gravity Science pass, which is char acterized by the high gain antenna \(HGA\aligned w ith Earth. During the gravity science passes, all science instruments are collecting data except for MWR, JIRAM and JunoCam. Refer to Figure 4 for a depiction of these two science templates. The mission has been designed such that science orbits 1 and 3 through 6 are MWR passes, with the remaining science orbits designated as Gravity Science passes. The mission has designated a 31st science orbit as a spare orbit in the event of the need for replacing one of the previous science orbits or as a special opportunity for observing an unplanned event. Following this spare or bit, the spacecraft will be deorbited into Jupiter itself to avoid planetary protection concerns associated with the Galilean moons were the spacecraft to remain in orbit 


  7  Figure 6 \226 Juno creates a web about Jupiter   Figure 7 \226 Illustration of radiation dose within the vault as a function of orbit number  


  8 7  S PACECRAFT D ESIGN S OLUTIONS  To meet the constraints asso ciated with the overall mission design, operations, and envir onmental considerations, the spacecraft design has had to address many challenges. Chief among these challenges have been 1  Solar arrays that can provide sufficient power at Jupiter 2  Protection of heritage electronics from the high radiation environment \(to avoid increased costs for new designs 3  Accommodations for a large and diversified payload 4  Maintenance of required attitude/pointing knowledge during perijove science operations Finding acceptable technical solutions to all of these challenges, while remaining within the cost and schedule constraints, were key to passing KDP-C and being authorized to proceed into the Implementation phase 8  S OLAR A RRAYS  The solar arrays on the Juno sp acecraft consist of three solar array wings placed symmetrica lly about the bus \(see Figure 2\Each wing consists of four solar array panels approximately two meters wide by three meters long except for the one wing containing the MAG experiment This wing has one less panel, which has been replaced with the MAG boom that hosts the dual fluxgate magnetometers and associated star cameras This configuration places the MAG experiment as far away from the spacecraft bus \(and associated magnetic field\ as possible while maintaining the necessary balance of the three-wing configuration. The panel size and number of solar cells on each were determined based upon a significant test and analysis program that was conducted during Phase B. This program consisted of testing multiple samples of triple-junction solar cells in the expected radiation and low-intensity, lowtemperature \(LILT\en t at Jupiter, characterizing the performance and degradation of various cell-operating parameters that resulted from this exposure, and conducting detailed analysis of the results. The results were used to optimize the design of the panels to ensure sufficient power is available for the conduct of science operations and end of mission disposal. This resulted in a solar array design that has approximately 45 meters 2 of total active cell area and yields an on orbit average power of approximately 460 to 490 watts. Each solar wing has the ability to be articulated by a small amount in flight such that the center of mass about the spin axis can be re-aligned following each main engine burn \(which alters the spacecraft\222s mass properties due to propellant expenditure 9  V AULT D ESIGN  Juno is expected to accumulate a total ionizing dose \(TID of greater than 100 Mrads \(1 \327 10 8 e solar cell cover glass to 11 Mrads at the components on the top deck. To protect sensitive electronics and maintain their design heritage as much as possible, the vast majority of the avionics and instrument elect ronics are placed inside a radiation vault that reduces the TID exposure to a maximum of 25 Krad. The vault is lo cated in the center of the spacecraft on the top deck, is approximately 1 meter square and has a mass of 180 kg. To account for environment modeling uncertainties, all assemblies within the vault are required to apply a radiation design factor of 2 and be qualified to that level of exposure \(or a maximum of 50 Krads\gnificant design efforts and risk-reduction tasks were applied to all facets of the vault design during Phase B. Proper sizing of the vault as necessary to accommodate all of the assemblies while optimizing total mass accommodation and routing of cab ling, and consideration of human factors and integration and test requirements, proved to be quite challenging. It took a number of design iterations to achieve a workable baseline. Selection and optimization of the shielding materials \(tantalum sandwich material provide maximum protection while minimizing mass was a major activity. Once these solutions were initially achieved a significant thermal analysis activity was conducted. This analysis proved to be quite a bit of work, given the range between the hot case \(near earth case \(5.4 AU from the Sun at Jupiter Finding acceptable design solutions for these two cases required further vault design modifications \(such as l ouvers\l as improved definition of necessary thermal power requirements \(which in turn, fed back in to the solar-array power requirements Of course, electromagnetic interference \(EMI electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC\uirements and issues had to be addressed within the vault as well, resulting in some additional constraint s being placed on particular electronics boxes. The vault designers have also begun to address the complicated design considerations associated with cabling penetrations and bulkhead connectors necessary to interface the external sensors and other spacecraft elements with their el ectronics inside the vault The design solutions must maintain the vault\222s integrity as a Faraday cage and minimize any penetrations that increase radiation exposure to the internal components. The experience and work accomplished to date has been tremendous, but it has also indicated that the vault layout and performance characteristics are very sensitive to minor changes associated with the internal electronics boxes, such as small dimensional changes or chassis orientations. Thus the vault design will continue to change and evolve to optimize the various performance characteristics and constraints that must be met. Refer to Figure 8 for a view of the current vault design 


  9  Figure 8 \226 View Inside the Radiation Vault 10  S TELLAR R EFERENCE U NIT SRU The SRUs have presented yet another challenge to the spacecraft design team. It was recognized early in Phase A that there was no viable, off-the shelf, SRU that could meet the performance requirements necessary to maintain attitude knowledge during the perijove science period of 261 three hours of about perijove. This was primarily due to the two primary factors of operating on a spinning spacecraft \(spin rate approximately 2 rpm during science operations\and the necessity of identifying sufficient stars \(as a result of the high radiation backgr ound reconstruction requirement of the MAG experiment dictated that the SRU not have star outages of more than 30 minutes during the primary science acquisition period. Therefore during Phase B two SRU vendors were selected for study contracts to explore modifications to their existing designs that would meet the necessa ry performance requirements The studies included radiation testing of the proposed SRUs and highly detailed system-level analyses of the resulting SRU performance. Each vendor\222s study contract culminated in a PDR of the proposed design and an associated cost proposal. As a result of this activity, Galileo Avionica was chosen as the SRU vendor and the proposed modifications to their design are expected to result in few perijove star outages and those outages will be significantly less than 30 minutes 11  O THER S PACECRAFT D ESIGN C HARACTERISTICS  Due to the number of different view geometries and orientations during the mission, in addition to the high gain antenna \(HGA as the primary work horse during the science mission, the spacecraft has several different antennas for communications. Specifically, the spacecraft has a fore medium gain antenna \(MGA\and a fore low gain antenna \(LGA\ aft LGA and, finally, an aft toroid LGA. The toroid LGA is necessary to provide communications during the main engine burns for JOI and the subsequent period reducti on maneuver \(PRM\Similar to the scheme used by the Mars Exploration Rovers during entry, descent and landing the spacecraft will transmit various tones via the toroid antenna to convey information regarding the execution of various automated, sequenced events. Though the down link bandwidth during these critical events is quite limited, the use of tones has the ability to convey very important information, as opposed to simply tracking the carrier frequency \(as was done on the Cassini spacecraft during its Saturn orbit insertion In addition to the single main engine that is used for the two deep space maneuvers, JOI a nd the PRM; the spacecraft also has four rocket engi ne module \(REM\each consisting of two lateral and one axial thrusters. Two of these towers are located on the fore deck and two on the aft 


  10 deck. Together, these REM to wers are able to accomplish all the remaining maneuvers necessary during the mission including the de-orbit maneuver at end of mission 12  C ONCLUSION  The Juno mission, payload, and spacecraft designs have been carefully selected and an alyzed in a highly synergistic manner such that all science objectives for this difficult mission can be met. Each area has presented unique challenges and requirements on the other two areas solutions for which have been described and discussed. The resulting system ensures that the required science objectives are met, maintains a simple, orbital operations approach and meets the many challenges associated with operating a spin-stabilized, solar-powered spacecraft in Jupiter\222s harsh environments. Further, the mission\222s ability to meet the majority of its science objectives after only completing half of its planned science orbits represents significant margin and reduces risk for mission accomplishment. Addressing the major challenges during Phase B has allowed the mission to mature its design in such a manner as to retain robust technical, schedule, and cost margins consistent with or exceeding, NASA requireme nts and guidelines. As a result, the Juno mission successfully passed all of the required success criteria at PD R and received authorization to proceed into the implementation phase Though the preliminary mission, payload, and spacecraft designs have been completed, it is certain that the detailed design phase will present additional challenges that must be addressed. Nonetheless, the Juno team is well positioned to take on the challenges within the framework and architecture that has been developed A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Ins titute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration B IOGRAPHY  Richard Grammier is the Deputy Director for the Solar System Exploration Directorate at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL This Directorate is responsible for all planetary exploration projects \(except Mars related projects\ managed by JPL Prior to this position, Mr. Grammier served JPL in numerous capacities including Juno Project Manager Deep Impact Project Manager, Deputy Director for the Solar System Exploration Directorate, Manager of JPL\222s Mission Assurance Division, Project System Engineer and Deputy Project Manager of the Stardust Project, and Project Element Manager for the Cassini Command and Data Handling Subsystem Mr. Grammier received his B.S. degree from the United States Military Academy and a M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from California State Polytechnic University. He has been awarded the NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal for Cassini and two NASA Outstanding Leadership medals for his accomplishments on Stardust and Deep Impact 


would enable the Class of Supply and other ontologies to optimally evolve with remote science networks catering to the diversity of exploration missions around the world 6 CONCLUSIONS This work has introduced some of the formal process models for data fusion which have been developed by the remote sensing and defense communities An overview of sensor and sensor platforms was described as they relate to the concepts and challenges of multi-sensor data fusion The role of fusion in ontological engineering was also discussed specifically as it relates to knowledge databases for fusion Ontology reuse can be a major facilitator for creating blackboard architectures for knowledge representation Systems engineering processes can play an important role in structuring and implementing complex fusion designs beginning with concept selection A Pugh Concept Screening Matrix was developed See Appendix which ranked several potential application areas for their adaptability to C4ISR-type fusion The medical diagnostics domain was found to be the most strongly correlated with the JDL data processing criteria The data may be simply gathered through visual observation thermometers etc or processed using sophisticated sensor machines based on nuclear magnetic resonance acoustic imaging and X-ray imaging In either case there is a clear demand for the high-tech application of fusion software algorithms and hardware sensing devices in this expanding and important field Future research in data fusion might address how ObjectProcess Methodology can be used to better understand problems related to concurrency control in localized sensors and distributed sensor networks It may also include an application of the fusion models developed for commercial implementation in vehicle health monitoring marketing science and logistics or supply chain management Additional research is required into designing data fusion test-beds so that some of the tracker-correlator architectures discussed in this thesis can be evaluated and verified for performance Finally research can be undertaken in developing robust ontologies that will enable the benefits of multi-sensor fusion to be more widely accessible through the Semantic Web 7 APPENDIX This Pugh Concept Selection screen is designed to weight application areas against the processes in the JDL implementation model The baseline reference case is the C4ISR system all other selection criteria are comparatively ranked against the reference case  or  The method was developed to help narrow concepts quickly and to improve them in a structured manner As we can see it is an imperfect approachaccording to the ranking the selection matrix above would not have us develop a fusion system for an intelligent transportation system However all indicators point to this being a worthy implementation of data fusion Kobayashi et al 15 proposed the Kalman approach for fusing measurement data from differential GPS wheel speedometer and optical fibre rate gyro And Mirabadi and Schmid 16 evaluated train speed and measurement through a combination of GPS INS and tachometers 11 


Concept Medical diagnostics features highest case The example cited from Luo et al 17 is the case-based data fusion methods used to support clinical decision support The detection and classification process might involve can grasp the concepts and processes that underpin the widest possible range of fusion applications 12  I Selection Criteria C4ISR Remote Medical Intelligent Condition reference Sensing Diagnostics Transportation Monitoring Level 1 Detection 0 0    Orientation 0 0 0  Classification 0    Identification 0     Level 2 Object Aggregation 0    Event  Activity Aggregation 0 0  0 Contextual Interpretation Fusion 0 0 0 Level 3 Capability Estimation 0 0 Prediction of Enemy Intent 0 0 Identification of Threat 0 0   Multi-perspective Assessment 0  0 0  Offensive  Defensive Analysis 0 0 0 Level 4 Evaluations 0     Fusion Control 0 0 0  0 Source Requirements Processing 0  0   Mission Management 0 0 0  0 Sum s 0 7 7 7 8 Sum O's 16 7 8 1 5 Sum s 0 2 1 8 3 Net Score 0 5 6 1 5 Rank 3 2 1 4 2 Continue Yes Yes Yes No Yes error in Pugh methods In the example above error have mainly to do with the bias of the selection criteria to the remote sensing and defense lexicon of data fusion This highlights the importance of developing upper-level ontologies which as a JDL implementation option which sources of means that it is best suited to leverage the algorithms and processes from the C4ISR reference a cardiac event including ventricular and atrial activity The process being controlled referred to automatic rhythm monitoring through integration of electrocardiogram and hemodynamic signals Although it is a quantitative tool for comparing concepts there is inherent subjective 


REFERENCES 1 Steinberg A 2000 Data Fusion System Engineering International Society of Information Fusion 2]Klein L 1999 Sensor and Data Fusion Concepts and Applications 2nd ed SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham WA 3]Gruber T 1993 A Translation Approach to Portable Ontologies Knowledge Acquisition 5\(2 199-220 4]Boury-Brisset A 2003 Ontology-based Approach for Information Fusion International Society of Information Fusion 5 Martins J and Pinto H 2004 Ontologies How can they be built Knowledge and Information Systems Springer-Verlag London 14 de Weck 0 and Simchi-Levi D 2006 HaughtonMars Project Expedition 2005 Interplanetary Supply Chain Management and Logistics Architectures MITINASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate and Research  Technology Program NASA/TP-2006214196 15 Kobayashi K Munekata F and Watanabe K 1994 Accurate navigation via differential GPS and vehicle local sensors in Proc IEEE Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 9-16 16 Mirabadi A Mort N and Schmid F 1996 Application of sensor fusion to railway systems in Proc IEEE/SICE/RSJ Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 185-192 17 Luo R Chih-Chen Y and Su K 2002 Multi-sensor Fusion and Integration Approaches and Future Research Directions IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 2 No 2 pp 102119 6 Van Heist G Schreiber A and Wielinga B 1997 Using explicit ontologies in KBS development Int J Hum Computer Stud 46\(2/3 pp 183-292 7 Guarino N 1998 Formal ontology and information systems In Guarino N ed Formal ontology in information systems IOS Press Amsterdam pp.3-15 8 Wald L 1999 Some Terms of Reference in Data Fusion IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol 37 No 3 9 Waltz E and Llinas J 1990 Multi sensor Data Fusion Artech House Norwood MIA 10 Bowman C 2004 The Dual Node Network DNN Data Fusion  Resource Management DF&RM Architecture AIAA Intelligent Systems Conference Chicago 11 Hall D and Llinas J 1997 An Introduction to Multisensor Data Fusion IEEE Proceedings Vol 85 No 1 12 Russell S and P Norvig 2003 Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach 2nd ed Pearson Education Inc New Jersey 13 Lin G et al 2005 Transforming the military through sense and respond IBM Business Consulting Services White Paper IBM Global Services Somers NY BIOGRAPHY Atif Mirza is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton He specializes in corporate strategy and operations advisory for clients in the Global Aerospace and Defense Practice Prior to joining Booz Allen Mr Mirza was a graduate student at MIT where he was a System Design and Management Fellow in the Engineering Systems Division He holds a joint SM degree in Engineering and Management from MIT/Sloan and a BEng with Honors in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Edinburgh Scotland 13 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


