  1 Weather and Propagation Effects on Multi-Mode Seeker Systems   Joel P. Booth, Sonya Read, Barry Allen U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command; Research, Development, & Engineering Center AMSRD-AMR-WD-UR Redstone Arsenal, AL.  35898-5000 256 Joel.booth@rdec.redstone.army.mil   Abstract 227This paper will discuss the progression of army seeker systems from a single mode to a multi-mode configuration.  This progression is in part due to the effects of weather on seeker system performance.  This discussion 
will be based on computer simulations and climatological data and test data.  The rela tionships between frequency and range will be explored as they interact with the weather This effort is being conducted in the RF Technology Function of the Applied Sensors, Guidance, and Electronics Division, U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Research Development, and Engineering Center \(AMRDEC\on the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama  While there is extensive work in this area, which is represented here in a condensed form, this paper will go into greater detail of the attenuation due to rainfall rates and cloud water content.  The ground work for this effort was 
described in a paper \223Weather and Radar Interactions.  This research is a continuation of that work.  The goal is to update the current trend in seeker development  The data obtained from this effort will be used to support the selection of new seeker sy stem parameters.  The effects of the weather would impact the selection of operating frequency and modes  This paper will also present some of the early test bed results of multimode seeker trials 1 2   T ABLE OF C ONTENTS   I  I 
NTRODUCTION AND B ACKGROUND  II  W EATHER C ONCERNS  III  R ELATIONSHIP OF O PERATING F REQUENCY  AND P ROPAGATION  IV  G ENERAL W EATHER P ATTERNS  V  T 
EST R ESULTS  VI  C ONCLUSION  R EFERENCES  I  I NTRODUCTION AND B ACKGROUND  In today\222s world it is becoming increasingly important to   1 U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright 2 IEEEAC paper# 1020, Ve rsion 1, updated 2009:01:05 exploit any advantage in battle.  To this end, the U.S. Army 
is researching the need to upgrade current missile seeker technology.  The general trend is toward multi-mode type seeker systems in an attempt to overcome weather and other battlefield conditions.  There is also work being done to exploit multi spectral seekers. This paper will focus on the background of current missile technology and how weather affects it, as well as presenting some test results on multispectral systems.  This data will be used in decisions for future efforts in the seeker arena  For completeness, the following is a short history of current missile systems including the Hellfire, TOW \(Tubelaunched, Optically tracked, Wire-guided missile Line-Of-Sight-Antitank-Missile\d Javelin.  These 
systems represent the use of, along with combinations of optical and radar technologies in the guidance and targeting schemes.   Figure 1 below compares the overall range of each system listed  The LOSAT missile uses a second generation Forward Looking Infrared acquisition se nsor \(FLIR has a range of around 4+ Km.  The fire control system can track up to three targets at a time and guide weapons to each of these target in order of acquisiti   The TOW uses a command to line of sight guidance.  After firing the missile, the gunner must keep the cross hairs of the sight centered on the target to ensure proper guidance The TOW has a range of around 4-4.5 Km. The TOW has undergone several upgrades since it\222s original fielding in 
    The Javelin missile uses a long-wave IR seeker to engage its targets.  The missile has a range of 2.5 Km.  The Javelin has a fire and forget feature due to its target lock before launch guidance programmi   The HELLFIRE missile has two different seeker options The first homes on a laser spot and the second is a Radio Frequency \(RF\aser seeker and the longbow RF\h currently fielded and are actively being used 4  Th e Hellfire h as an effectiv e ran g e o f u p to 8 Km with  current guidance hardware.  The range may be limited by the propulsion unit   


  2 Missile vs. Range 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 LOSAT TOW Javelin HELLFIRE Missile Range \(Km Range Figure 1. Missile vs. Range  Each guidance type has its own limitations due to weather Although each seeker employs di fferent wavelengths of they are all forms of electromagnetic propagation.  In this paper we will discuss the limitation due to weather.  We will also mention the direction for the future of the Army\222s missile seeker work  II  W EATHER C ONCERNS   There are many different asp ects of weather and each one can have a different effect on Electromagnetic propagation Electromagnetic propagation is adversely affected or attenuated by different weather conditions. The attenuation is generally brought about by either dispersion or absorption  The m a i n at t e nuat i on com ponent s of weat her are rai n  and suspended water vapor.   Although the attenuation from other particles and gases can have a signification effect on electromagnetic propagation, the main concern is generally focused on rain and water vapor.  Since the different wavelengths react differently to the weather the paper will look at the effects based on wavelength A  S CATTERING  Scattering describes the phenomenon that occurs when the electromagnetic energy is defl ected or dispersed away from the intended target or the receiving antenna. The following illustration shows how scattering from a raindrop occurs     Figure 2.  Scattering Illustration  Figure 2 is a very straightforward example of the scattering from one droplet.  Now, cons ider that each droplet can scatter a small amount of the radiated energy and that there are many droplets in a storm The energy scattered from one droplet could collide with the scatter from another droplet and so on.  This leads to a very complicated picture of collisions and re-radiations B  A BSORPTION  Absorption is a little more complex than dispersion in that there is true absorption and pseudo-absorption   True absorption occurs when the electromagnetic energy passes 


  3 through different regions of th e atmosphere having different dielectric properties.  As th e electromagnetic energy passes from one region to another, such as the air to rain, a small amount of energy is lost due to the heating of the particles This occurs because the water acts as a poor dielectric and absorbs some of the power from the electromagnetic radiation.   Pseudo-absorption deals with the fact that there are magnetically charged particles in the air, such as water that begin to rotate when electromagnetic radiation passes by ced because a small portion of the electromagnetic energy is imparted to the particle When a magnetically charged object rotates, it radiates random electromagnetic energy that can cause interference with the returning signal from the intended target.  At the very least, this random energy will raise the background noise level.  There is also an overall loss of power due to the small parts of energy transf erred to each particle that is caused to rotate.   The following section will identify the main particles and weather conditions that adversely effect electromagnetic propagation C  R AIN  Rain is defined as water condensed from atmospheric vapor falling to earth in drops.  In addition, the diameter of the drops must be greater than or equal to 0.5 millimeters [8 Rain is usually described by the rainfall rate method.  For example, 4mm per hour is a common specification for moderate rainfall  Fi gure 3 shows t h e at t e nuat i on due t o  different rain rates over the 3 to 100 GHz range  The attenuation due to rain is based on the rate of precipitation and the droplet size.  The attenuation of electromagnetic energy is relate d to the apparent area of the raindrops.  The area of a raindrop is a function of its diameter.  As  the wavelength of the operating frequency approaches this dimension, the system will experience greater attenuation due to the rain.  A common misconception is that rain dropl ets are all the same size for a given rainfall rate.  As it turns out, each rainfall rate has a range of different sized droplets, based on a statistical distribution.  Graph 1 is a bar chart of the distribution for some common rainfall rates.  Th is distribution is referred to as the Laws and Parsons \(L-P\er the two gentlemen that developed it  In general terms, rain can be thought of as two types convective \(or thundershowers\stratiform \(or widespread\ Convective rains are usually associated with approaching weather front C onvect i v e cel l s as t h ey  are commonly known, are characterized by high rainfall rates exceeding 25 mm/hr.  It is also common for convective cells to be localized to a speci fic area [8].  Convective cells are also typically very short in duration, usually less than an hour.  Convective cells can possess vertical profiles that exceed the average freezing height of the atmosphere Stratiform rainfall, on the other hand, is usually spread out over hundreds of kilometers.  The duration of stratiform rainfall is typically greater than an hour and rainfall rates are less than 25 mm/hr.  The stratiform cloud layers usually have a height of 4 to 6 km  D  H AIL  Hail is defined as hard pellets of snow or ice that fall to earth, generally ranging from the size of raindrops to the size of golf balls Hai l s t ones general l y do not  great l y  attenuate the RF energy as long as they remain frozen However, as soon as the stones start to melt, they have the ability to be more disruptive than rain.  As the stones melt, a thin covering of water forms on the outside of the stones.  It is this covering of water that attenuates the RF.  The hailstones act like large raindrops due to the frozen cores The attenuation caused by the covering of water is attributed to the different dielectric constants of water and ice.  The dielectric constant fo r water at 20\272C is 80.4.  The dielectric constant for ice is   The di el ect ri c constant is a measure of a material\222s ability to concentrate the electrostatic lines of flux This means the higher the number, the more conductive the material.  Since good conductors are also good radiators it is easy to see why hail with a layer of water on the outside would cause a greater problem than the ice particles alone  E  S NOW  Dry snow is the least attenuator of RF energy, even at very high fall rates.  For example, at the fall rate of 15 centimeters per hour only 0.01 to 0.04 dB per kilometer of attenuation was measured over the 18 t   Once again, this is supported by the lower dielectric constant of ice.  In addition, the average density of snow is eight times less than the aver age density of rain.  This would mean at the same fall rates there would be a lot less     


  4   Figure 3. Attenuation due to Rainfall Rates 10   Rain Drop Distribution based on Rainfall Rate 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 0.511.522.533.544.555.56 droplet size \(mm Percentage of the total volume 0.25 mm/hr 1.25 mm/hr 2.5 mm/hr 5.0 mm/hr 12.5 mm/hr 25.0 mm/hr  Graph 1. Drop Sizes per Rainfall Rate   Wet snow is snow with very high water content, often considered a mixture of rain and snow.  Wet snow attenuates the electromagnetic en ergy much in the same way is rain.  The attenuation due to wet snow can be estimated by Equation \(1     1 where  is the wavelength in centimeters, and  r is the water content of the wet snow in mm/hr  002 002 r r nattenuatio snowWet 0022.0 00349.0 __ 4 6.1 


  5 Equation \(1.7\produces results in dB/km as seen in Figure 4    Figure 4. Wet Snow Attenuation versus Wavelength [9   Taking a closer look at Figure 4, it can be seen that as the wavelength gets smaller the attenuation rises rapidly This is illustrated by Figure 5    Figure 5. Wet Snow Attenuation at150 GHz and Above    Figure 5 shows that at frequencies above 150 GHz or wavelengths smaller than 2 cm, the attenuation by wet snow becomes a large problem and would render the system unusable.  The attenuation would affect the IR and higher RF regions of the frequency spectrum  F  F OG AND C LOUDS  Fog is defined as condensed water vapor in cloud-like masses that lie close to the ground and limit visibility.  The droplet size is generally up to 0.2 millimeters in diameter    Fog i s oft e n consi d ered just a cl oud at very l o w elevation Clouds are defined as a visible body of fine droplets of water or particles of ice dispersed in the atmosphere above the earth\222s surface at various altitudes.   Since clouds usually fall into one of two categories, either water or ice the water clouds act like fog in attenuating electromagnetic radiation while the ice clouds usually have an attenuation that is two orders of magnitude lower than the water clouds G  O THER S CATTERERS  There are many other scatterers that could be encountered in the atmosphere.  Sand particles can be suspended in the air and offer large attenuation in the visible region of the electromagnetic region.  Sand also attenuates RF but not as much as some of the other weather effects.  The sand particles are on the same order of size as some raindrops 6].  There are parts of the wo rld where sand is a problem in that the particles might have diameters comparable to rain drops, but the sand storms are generally close to the ground only extending four meters off the ground.  These particles will only offer some attenuation if the target of interest is on the ground or the radar system is ground-based III  R ELATIONSHIP OF O PERATING F REQUENCY AND P ROPAGATION  Another very important relationship is the wavelength of the operating frequency and the at mosphere.  Table 1 shows some frequencies and their corresponding wavelengths in meters and millimeters. Recalling from earlier in the paper some of the raindrop diameters were on the same order as the wavelengths of interest.  As the operating frequency approaches the diameter of th e raindrops, the drops absorb a larger portion of the electromagnetic energy.  Physics dictates that anything that absorbs electromagnetic energy will also radiate that energy.  This reradiated energy is commonly referred to as sky noise or brightness temperature.  The sky noise will raise the overall noise floor in the system.  It can be easily seen in Figure 6 that a designer would be well advised to avoid the frequencies that correspond to the highest sky noise.  It is also important to note that the curves vary not only in frequency, but also in angle of elevation of the radi ated energy [14].  The figure was generated using a standard radar range equation in the signal to noise form holding most variable constant 


  6     Figure 6. Maximum Usable Range versus Frequency  Figure 6 is a very simple look at the relationship between range and frequency.  It does not take into account that as the frequency increases and the size of the aperture is held constant; a general increase in the gain of the antenna is experienced.  In Figure 6, the horizontal black line, referred to as the threshold line, is set at 13 dB which is generally accepted as a good working goal for systems   Table 1. Wavelengths and Frequencies  Frequencies and Wavelengths of the Microwave Band Frequency \(GHz wavelength\(m Wavelength  \(mm 8 0.0375 37.50 12 0.0250 25.00 18 0.0167 16.67 27 0.0111 11.11 40 0.0075 7.50 75 0.0040 4.00 110 0.0027 2.73 300 0.0010 1.00  IV  G ENERAL W EATHER P ATTERNS   A major design question is how often will a system operate in less than perfect weather conditions?   Also, it is important to consider under what weather conditions the system must operate.   For example, consider the general specification of 4mm/hr widespr ead rain that most systems are required to operate in.  Based on past climatological data, this specification is only exceeded 1.2% of the time in the continental United States.  In general, the rainfall rates worldwide only exceed this speci fication 1.7% of the time 


  7 The storms producing the high rainfall rate numbers also tend to be more localized and short-lived   Al l  ot her weather effects are seasonal at best and rarely last for an extended period of time  V  T EST R ESULTS  There have been several test activities conducted in the Army to develop multi-mode seeker systems.  These efforts have proven very valuable in the progression of multi spectral and multimode seekers. The following will present some of these efforts  The Brilliant Anti-armor Technology \(BAT\ was unique in that the system used an acoustic and an infrared IR\sensor to search out and neutralize its targets. The BAT is depicted below in figure 7   Figure 7. BAT Concept 16   The BAT is an acoustic and IR guided sub-munition that autonomously searches for, tracks and defeats armored and critical mobile targets. The BAT is a propulsion-less aerodynamically controlled vehicle \(glider\The BAT is delivered to the target vicinity by the Army Tactical Missile System \(Army TACMS\ch is launched from the M270 Multiple Launch Rocket System \(MLRS\ch, BAT is part of the MLRS Family of Munitions \(MFOM\. The submunition is designed to provide capability to attack deep high-payoff and time critical targets  The dual mode \(acoustic/IR\er and gliding capability accommodate large target locati on uncertainties due to such efforts as target motion, configuration or orientation; winds delivery vehicle accuracy or de livery patterns.  Below is figure 8, a screen capture of a test flight with the BAT system  Another effort that will be presented here is a captive carry flight test of a tri-mode test bed seeker.  This is a radar infrared imagining and semi-active laser system.  Figure 9 is a screen capture of the data collected during the test   


  8   Figure .8 BAT Test Data    Figure 9. TRI Mode Data  


  9  VI  C ONCLUSION   In conclusion, the data in this report supports the use of multi-spectral or mutli-mode seeker systems for next generation missiles.  The next area of interest is to explore how information from the different sensors can be fused together to improve performance  R EFERENCES    223LOSAT\224 www.fas.org/man/dod101/sys/land/losat.htm accessed 9/21/2004   224 www.fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/land/tow.htm  accessed 9/21/2004   i ssileandfirecontrol.com  accessed 9/21/2004  4] \223Hellfire\224 www.fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/missile/agm114.htm accessed 9/21/2004   223LongB ow Hel l fi re M odul ar M i ssi l e Sy st em  Descri pt i on U\l 30 1996, Prepeared by Lockheed Martin corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation CONTRACT NO. DAAH01-91-c-0057    Saveski e Pet e r N., \223R adi o Propagat i on Handbook,\224 Tab          Books, Inc., 1980   223 W eat her Versus Propagat i on\224 www.tpub.com/neets/bookonpropagation accessed 11/3/2003   Ahrens, C Donal d 223 M e t e orol ogy  Today 224  W e st  Publishing Company, 1994   Doerry A.W 223At m ospheri c at t e nuat i on and SAR  operating frequency selection.\224 Sandia National Laboratories, presented at the SAR workshop Huntsville AL October 22-23, 2003   223R F At m o spheri c Absorpt i on Duct i ng\224 www.tscm.com/rf_absor.pdf accessed 10/31/03    B ogush Al fred J., \223R adar and t h e At m o sphere\224 Artech House, 1989  12]\223DielectricConstant\224 http://snobear.colorado.edu Markw/SnowHydro/dielect ric_const.html accessed 11/13/03   M e i k l e Ham i sh, \223M odern R a dar Sy st em s\224 Art ech House, Inc. 2001 \(new   Federal C o m m uni cat i ons C o m m i ssi on bul l e t i n num ber 70,\224 Millimeter Wave propagation Spectrum Management Implications\224, July, 1997   Nat h anson, Fred E  223Radar Design Principles\224 \226 Second Edition, Mcgraw-Hill, Inc., 1991   ATAC M S B l ock II http://www.fas.org/man/dod 101/sys/land/atacms-bat.htm Accessed 10/08/2008 Biography Joel P. Booth is a research engineer with the Weapons Development and Integration Directorate of the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Research Development Engineering command Redstone Arsenal.   He graduated with a B.S. and M.S. in Electrical e ngineering from the University of Alabama in Huntsville     


0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 x106 1cm2 1lowr trop 1000-700 hPa NO2 co]umn noise level for TROP I is O.1 101 cm2 Figure 5 Daily variation of NO2 pollution over the southeastern U.S on 17 August 2000 Each panel is a map of the lower tropospheric 1000-700 hPa column NO2 abundance at different Atlanta local times throughout the day EPA CMAQ regional model results from Yongtao Hu of Georgia Tech Current and planned satellite instruments that measure NO2 make measurements near mid-day and miss the larger values that occur both earlier and later TROPI on LEOMAC-P will provide the first global measurements of NO2 and other pollutants at multiple times per day and will thus provide needed new information on quantifying the overall magnitude of global pollution events Blue outward-pointing arrows indicate LEOMAC-P TROPI measurement time examples for 17 August and a particular choice of orbit parameters The corresponding solar zenith angles sza are also indicated The TROPI NO2 column measurement noise is _0.Ix0'16 cm-2 CO pollution large crystal ice small crystal ice Figure 6 Upper tropospheric CO pollution and cloud ice averages for 25 Aug through 6 Sep 2004 from Aura LEOMAC will provide such measurements with better resolution multiple times per day and provide additional key measurements such as CO in the lower and middle troposphere 11 


15 E Nat 1X 1 Figure 7 Deposition of boundary layer air into the upper troposphere Model predictions from Figure 5 of Mullendore et al J Geophys Res vol 110 D06113 2005 with crosses added to show the SMLS resolution Color indicates the abundance of a boundary layer tracer at 2 and 10 hours into a convective simulation XE 20.0 LE A G6-P_ _ W 150r CWEvery 36 days Nn N Sl N N NA.TM hea oi or eGboP LOMC Local time rour Figure 8 Diurnal variation of convection where the green curve is for convection over land and the blue is over ocean For 208 K infrared temperature thresholds from Figure 4 of Chen and Houze Q J Roy Met Soc vol 123 pp 357-388 1997 with the temporal samplings of the A-train A and of SMLS on LEOMAC-P P and LEOMAC-S S added Figure 9 Diurnal variation of convection over the southeastern U.S in summer and temporal coverage example for SMLS on LEOMAC-P Each panel shows the Jun-Jul-Aug 1999 average occurrence of strong convection to at least 10 km height at different local times throughout the day from Baijun Tian of JPL and based on GOES 11 m brightness temperatures less than 230 K Red colors for 6 hours per day typical of this region corresponds to 5 inches of rain over Jun-Jul-Aug Dark blue colors indicate essentially no convection Blue outward-pointing arrows indicate LEOMAC-P SMLS measurement time examples for for 17 August and a particular choice of orbit parameters The A-train makes measurements at 1:30 am and 1:30 Dm and misses the evolution and intense convection in late afternoon 12 


DAily SMLS TIROPI TMMS solar 90 243 60 A IIt I  I 1111X   L _~17A Hi FMAMJ ASOND 0.3 1.0 1.5 20 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 0 80 9.0 Nunber of observatio  24h Figure 10 Number of observations per each 24 hour period for LEOMAC-P top row and LEOMAC-S bottom row Everywhere in a given color is measured that number of times with lOxIO km horizontal resolution for TROPI TIMS and 50x50 km for SMLS The left three columns show an example for Aug 17 The rightmost column shows the annual variation for the TROPI and TIMS solar measurements where the vertical line is 17 August The number of measurements per 24 hour period for SMLS and TIMS/thermal has only a minor variation throughout the year 1000 km i 100 km 10 km GUobal I Global j Figure 11 Overarching scientific issues that need to be addressed by future atmospheric composition missions and LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC horizontal vertical and temporal coverage and resolution For the various measurement objectives L indicates that observations are needed in the lower troposphere U that they are needed in the upper troposphere and S that they are needed in the stratosphere The right end of each horizontal arrow is the required horizontal resolution and the left end is the required coverage The upper end of each vertical arrow is the desired temporal resolution and the lower end is the required resolution 13 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


