A Trust Model in Pervasive Computing Jing Wang Zhimin Yang Yunlei Chen Weili Kou Zengguang Zhang Department of Computing Shandong University Weihai P.R China SeaskyOO2002@yahoo com cn,yangzhimin@sdu edu cn Abstract Security and privacy is a big problem that feazing computer researchers all along In the pervasive computing because the traditional methods of user authorization and access control are no longer adapted the security andprivacy becomes much more difficult to ensure This paper proposes a dynamic trust model based on P2P In this paper we call the trust model PDTM The model adopts 
the technique of automated trust negotiation Compared with those models existing our trust model can fit the environment of pervasive computing even more And it can resolve the problems well that the entities ubiquitous and mobile brought about Keywords Pervasive computing PDTM Automated trust negotiation Dynamic trust model 1 Introduction Along with the applications of pervasive computing becoming more and more extensive day by day the requirement for pervasive computing expands more The research of pervasive computing has turned into a research keystone and a hotspot in current computer industry In the same 
time because of characteristics of the pervasive computing environment such as the dynamic uncertain and ubiquitous etc has brought new challenges for computer network's security For pervasive computing environment a typical character is that every entity is autonomous Thanks to the work demand among entities they often need to move the workplace continually And the relationship among entities is established randomly and the entities may also be required to deal with the requests from the other entities which they know nothing before capably Entities in the pervasive computing environment are required to be able 
to make out the corresponding judgments to the trust from claiming entities automatically and make out the corresponding disposals to the action of request synchronously But all these problems can not be resolved directly by the present trust models in PKI The most popular PKI is defined by the IETF's PKIX working group 1 which defines a security system used for identifying entities users and resources through the use of X.509 identity certificates 2 In this PKI highly trusted entities known as certificate authorities CAs issue X.509 certificates where essentially 
a unique identity name and the public key of an entity are bound through the digital signature of that CA As a trusted third party the CA can be used as an introducer through the proof of private key possession and the validation of the CA's issued X.509 certificates entities are able to associate a trusted unique identity name with the communicated claims and statements of others X.509 trust model is a kind of model used to authenticate with strict trust hiberarchy In this structure every entity has an identity card signed by center CA or other CA which can be verified directly or 
indirectly It's supposed that these CAs were organized to global uniform CA tree structure in the model and every local CA can link to this CA tree This kind of model is based on the centralized control on every domain so it is not suit to the applications in pervasive computing environment which is lack of centralized management domain Phil Zimmermann established Pretty Good Privacy PGP PGP trust model is one kind of trust model taking users as centre It has no centralized or hierarchical structured CA and every user decided which certificates could be trusted themselves PGP adopted the policy 
trust introducers to evaluate a user's reliability But this model only support very limited trust policies and the users can but define the user entities that can be absolute trust or partial trust and define the restriction policy How many recommendations are needed from credible presenters could ensure a new user were absolute trusted or partial trusted themselves What the matter of this model is that an introducer is believable or not as well as the credible degree is defined completely by users themselves So that trust evaluation depends on the users action and decision-making capability and the trust result gained 
is static Besides PGP's way of issue private keys and the meshy trust relationship taking users as centre is not flexible enough to face thousands upon thousands users In order to overcome the PKI system's based on X.509 localization on the aspect of certificates authorization and its excessive complexity SPKI was proposed SPKI described a simpler and more applied PKI than the traditional PKI The object of SPKI is that to propose a kind of simple easy realized and executive certificate format and conjunction protocol and 978-1-4244-2020-9/08/$25.00 02008 IEEE 370  


implement creditable authentication and authorization at the same time SPKI suggest using public key as entity's global sign It through authorized certificate and permit further the right delegation to realize the flexible authorization mechanism But how to control the right delegation is a problem 3 With a view to those models disadvantages introduced above this paper proposed a dynamic trust model based on P2P In this model every entity has a trust agent and the trust authentication among the entities is transferred to carry through among agents So the P2P here is not the real P2P and we call it pseudoP2P This model established trust relationship based on entities attributes and it also considered the context information This paper is organized as follows In Section II we will introduce the structure of our trust model and describe the design ideology and implement policy particularly We will analyze the advantages of our model in Section III In Section IV the model will be simulated and we will analyze the experimental results Future work will be given in Section V The conclusion is also given in this section 2 The trust model of PDTM present the steps in detail in the following section In the pervasive computing environment entity can be a Personal Computer PC and it also can be an embedded equipment and it can be a kind of software too In this model the entities agents act by servers Here all the trust we said is the static trust based the entities attributes The context information decides the dynamic trust automated trust negotiati e CE C Entity a 2 request 6 serve CEntity b Figure 1 The structure of the trust model 2.2 Set up the trust In 2000 year edition X.509 defined the trust X.509 3.3.54 Generally if an entity assumes another entity would be behaved exactly as it anticipated we say that it trusts that entity The height of trust grade is denoted with Trust Value TV Trust Value is the trust degree that one node can complete the task what it is expected to It is the measurement to trust relationship And the Trust Value is diversifying between 0 1 To any entity E E Entity it has the attributes a1 a2 a3  an a E Attribute And the attribute set of E denoted as A\(Ei a1,a2,...,a,1 The context information is denoted as C To Ei and Ej the direct trust value of Ei to Ej is denoted as T Ta Tc where Ta denotes the trust value is produced by the entity's attributes and Tc denotes the trust value is produced by the entity's context information Ta is the static part of the TV which we call it static trust value Once confirmed its value will not change Tc is the dynamic part of the TV and we call it dynamic trust value It changes along with the context information's change 2.1 The structure of PDTM The structure of our trust model is shown in figure 1 Now we present this structure for you simply In the model every entity has its own agent and the entities submit their attributes to their agents at the time of initialization The calculation of the static trust value is transferred to the agents The calculation of the static trust value is carried through among the agents through trust negotiation Then the results return to the entities from their agents for the entities themselves do the decision All process is divided to six steps We will 2.2.1 Build the static trust Automated trust negotiation ATN 4-6 is an accessing control way to establish trust relationship among strangers This is carry out through uncover the digital certificates to the other side step by step In automated trust negotiation the trust relationship among strangers is established by the exchange the information of participants attributes and this is realized through uncover the digital certificates Besides the negotiation process do not need the third part participate in The accessing control policies decide to uncover which certificates and the order of uncovering certificates in the process of automated trust negotiation Our model adopted this technique In our model we build the primary trust based on entities attributes through automated trust negotiation The digital certificate is realized by the X.509 certificates As figure 1 shown the process of building the static trust among entities is as follows 1 Entities submit their attributes trust certificate to their agents 2 Entity a has request to entity b 3 Entity b submits the trust query to its agent The query contains the accessing control policies of entity b that it need for offering the service i.e what attributes entity a must be have if it want to access the resource of entity b 4 The agents of entity a and entity b gained the trust result through automated trust negotiation 5 The agents return the trust result to their entities 6 The entities make a judgment according to the result If the result answers for their rules they provide the service 371  


The trust negotiation between agents is carried out through uncover the digital certificates step by step We suppose an example like this 7 Online bookshop B offers 700O discount for some college students and visitor A asks for the discount In this example the online bookshop B has nothing about the visitor A before The security policy of the online bookshop B is that he gives the discount to the college students only so the bookshop B asks for the visitor to bring forth the student number of the college and the trust certificate of the bank credit card ID The security policy of visitor A is that he only offers his credit card ID to the member of Bank of China so after visitor A provided his certificate of the college student to bookshop B he asks for B to show the certificate of the member of Bank of China After bookshop B brought forth his certificate visitor A would show his certificate with credit card ID The process of automated trust negotiation is shown as figure 2 A B policy student of Bank of China certificate student  policy the member of Bank of China policy credit card ID Figure 2 The process of automated trust negotiation 2.2.2 Build the dynamic trust In the pervasive computing environment the dynamic trust relationship among nodes is decided by the context information Context is all kinds of factors in the computing environment including itself that may bring influence to the process of inter-accessing 8 The context in pervasive computing environment can be sorted into three kinds approximately environment context that contains the factors such as position speed and time and so on facility context that contains the device characteristics such as bandwidth of network screen size and so on and user context that contains operational habits personal fancy and individual demand and so on That's a quite complicated process to apperceive the context We usually use the structural model with multilevel and hierarchy to apperceive the environment and facility context where the data sources are all sorts of physical or logistic sensors To obtain the user context is most difficult and the apperception to them is essentially a user's learning process based on the accumulation of time of the previous interactive process i.e historical context This study can use rule-based algorithms for the simple application systems while for those complicated application systems it need to use corresponding algorithms in artificial intelligence In order to simplify our model we just take the environment context and equipment context which are provided by sensors and sensing modules in the system Implement the trust evaluation of context information Tc=h\(C where C stands for context information and Tc denotes the dynamic trust value Because different nodes have different resource trust policies so we don't uniform the method to evaluate in the model Different nodes can design different methods of evaluation according to their own trust policies 3 The analysis of the model's merits 3.1 Compare with other trust models existing in pervasive computing environment Reference 12 expanded the concept of trust from network security to propose a trust model for pervasive computing but it just only introduced the context information into the system simply Reference  1 3  reviewed the two maj or recently-used trust model X.509 and PGP trust model and their problems Then with the knowledge of uncertain probabilities and character in ubiquitous computing it presented a trust model based on the attribute credential a new trust model in ubiquitous computing But it didn't give the composition of attributes clearly and it didn't show how to build the trust either Reference 7 combined attributes with context information in its trust model which can meet Lamsal's trust modeling requirement of pervasive computing But this model also has some shortness To illustrate the calculated amount is overload in building trust relationship among entities 3.2 The merits of PDTM Compared with the models in literatures 3 7 12 13 14 our model has the following advantages l introduction of the agent The trust computing between nodes is transferred to agents to carry out and agents implement the calculation through automated trust negotiation The process needs no participation of the third party which embodied the idea of P2P 2 computing The computing tasks are completed both by nodes and agents and agents take the most This distributed computing is quite suitable to the small embedded devices in pervasive computing environment whose computing ability is poor 3 independence of trust choice In the model we proposed in this article different nodes can select different assessing method according to their own 372 and credit card ID policy member 


over 98 while the nodes increasing Figure 4 shows the experimental result of the amount of time consumed while different number of nodes request our model and the traditional model separately and the test only refers to files download In the test every node requests 100 80 60 i  40 20 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 node number can better adapt to pervasive computing environment and policies while evaluating the dynamic trust which reflects a certain amount of autonomy 4 The experiment of simulation Experimental environment Linux 4.1.22 J2EE Java We choose TOSSIM as the simulator For the introduction of TOSSIM please refer to literatures 911 For the sake of simplicity it only refers to the establishment of static trust in our experiment This experiment simulates the establishment of trust relationship among 100 nodes and the status of successful establishment of trusted relationship is illuminated through the resources request success or not Still for the sake of simplicity but not missing reality we arrange two agents and make every 50 nodes to share each agent We also simulate the traditional method the results of the experiment are shown in figure 3 and figure 4 4our model traditional model 101 41 100 99 98 97 96 95 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 node number Figure 3 The success rate of establishing trust relationship Figure 4 The amount of time consumed Figure 3 shows the success rate of establishing trust relationship among nodes both in the model putting forward in this article and in the traditional model Apparently can better solve the security problems caused by mobility ubiquitous distribution of entities etc Currently pervasive computing becomes no difference in the both models while nodes are few But the gap becomes increasing obviously with the nodes increasing The experiment proved that the model putting forward in this article is superior to the traditional model either in validity on P2P The model established the static trust relationship among nodes by automated trust negotiation first and then established the dynamic trust relationship combining the context information and it introduced the mechanism of agent to distribute computing tasks Compared with the existing models this model success rate remaining at or in efficiency 5 Future work and conclusion According to the characters of pervasive computing this article proposed our model is superior to the traditional model with its resources successfully We test resources only once and the providing nodes produced randomly The result shows that the amount of consuming-time is almost of a dynamic trust model based we will study the techniques of attributes composition and information's safe exchange to further improve the model References 1 Hoschek W Jaen-Martinez J Samar A Stockinger H and Stockinger K Data management Certificate and Certificate Revocation List\(CRL Profile  Internet Engineering Task Force RFC 3280 2002 Available at ietf orglrfclrfc3280 txt 2 ITU-T X.509 03/00 Information technology Open systems interconnection the directory Authentication framework ITU Recommendation 2002 3 Shaohong Zhong The study of trust model based on the pervasive computing environment The degree thesis of Hunan University 2006 4 Winsborough W H and Li N Safety in Automated Trust Negotiation In the Proc of IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy IEEE Computer Society Press Berkeley California May 2004 147160 5 Li JX Huai JP and Li XX Research on automated trust negotiation Journal of Software 2006 17\(I pp.124-133 in Chinese with English abstract http://wwwjos.org.cn/10009825/17/124.htm 6 Zhensong Liao Hai Jin Chisong Li and Deqing Zou Automated Trust Negotiation and Its Development Trend Journal of Software 2006 17\(9 pp.1933-1948 7 Yajun Guo and Fan Hong Trust Computing Model for Pervasive Computing Computer Science 2005 Vol.32 No.10 8 Weining Yue Shihai Dong and Yue Wang Study on Human-Computer Interaction Framework of Pervasive Computing Journal of Computer 2004 27\(12 9 Honglin Yuan Chen Xu and Guoan Zhang Researches on simulation method of wireless sensor networks based on embedded operation system Control  Automation 2006 22\(7-1 373 our model traditional model 120 a hotpot in academic research and the security study in pervasive computing has a more practical significance In the future work 


10 Simulating TinyOS Networks http wwwcs.berkeley.edu/-pal/research/tossim.html 11 TOSSIM Accurate and Scalable Simulation of Entire TinyOS Applications http://www.eecs.harvard edu/-mdw/papers/tossimsensysO3.pdf 12 English C Nixon P Terzis S etal Dynamic Trust Models for Ubiquitous Computing Environments Workshop on Security in Ubiquitous Computing Goteborg Sweden 2002-09 13 Yihan Wang Li Tao and Qiying Cao Research of Trust Model in Ubiquitous Computing Application Research of Computers 2006 Vol.23 No.1 PP.122-124 14 Yajun Guo and Fan Hong Trust-based Security Mechanism for Pervasive Computing Computer Engineering 2006 Vol 32 No.8 374  


  6 R EFERENCES   Barton, I. J., 1995. Satellite derived sea surface temperatures: Current status. Journal of Geophysical Research, 100: 8777-8790    NOAA Pol a r Orbi t a l Dat a user\222s Gui d e Sect i on 3.0 1998 Available Online http://www2.ncdc.noaa.gov/docs/podug/html/c3/sec30.htm   A-G Satellite Series; NOAA Technical Memorandum NESS 95 Washington, D.C   Ki dwel l  K. B., com p and ed 1995 NOAA-14 Pol a r Orbiter Data \(TIROS-N, NOAA-14-6, NOAA-14-7 NOAA-14-8, NOAA-14-9, NOAA-14-10, NOAA-14-11 NOAA-14-12, and NOAA-14\Guide: Washington D.C., NOAA-14/NESDIS    Ki rk J. T. O. \(1984 a t i onshi p bet w een inherent and apparent optical properties of water on solar altitude. Limnology a nd Oceanography, 29, 350 356    Gal l e gos C L and C o rrel D.L. \(1990 odel i ng spect ral  diffuse attenuation, absorption and scattering coefficients in a turbid estuary. Limnology and Oceanography, 35 1486 212 1502   E.A and Murtha, P.A. \(1992 and backscattering spectra for suspended minerals and chlorophyll-a in Chilko Lake British Columbia.  Remote Sensing of Environment, 39, 103 212 118  B IOGRAPHY  Lim Hwee San  is a lecturer at the school of physics, Universiti Sains Malaysia. He obtained his B.Sc. from USM in Geophysics in 2001 and M.Sc. from USM in remote sensing in 2003. He obtained his Ph.D in environmental remote sensing from USM in 2006. His research interests are remote sensing applications for water quality monitoring, air quality monitoring, land surface properties and digital images classification. He is a Member of the International Soci ety for Optical Engineering, US        Mohd. Zubir Mat Jafri is a lecturer at the school of physics, Universiti Sains Malaysia. He obtained his B.Sc. in Physics 1984\ Universiti Ke bangsaan Malaysia, his M.Sc. in microprocessor technology and application 1991\ from Brighton Polytechnic, UK, and his Ph.D from University College of Swansea, Wales \(1996\ in research area of algorithm development for detecting curve from digital images. He has more than 20 years teaching experience in the area of physics, optical communication, digital and analogue electronic and also microprocessors. He is also active in research work on current-based syst em, automation visual inspection system, digital image processing, and remote sensi ng. He has published more than 100 articles in these area. He is a Life Me mber of Malaysian In stitute of Physics and Member of the International So ciety for Optical Engineering, US  Khiruddin Abdullah received his B.Sc. \(Physi cs\ Bedford College, University of London, and M.Sc Geophysics\ from Imperial College, London, in 1984, and his Ph.D. in remote sensing from the University of Dundee, Scotland in 1994. he is currently a faculty member at the School of Physics Universiti Sains Malaysia teaching courses in geophysics and remote sensing. His research interests include remote sensing applications in marine and coastal environments. Presently, he is working on remote sensing algorithm for retrievals of water quality parameters and sea surface temperature  Nasirun Mohd. Saleh received his B.Sc. \(G eophysics Meteorology\rom Reading, UK, in 1985, and M.Phil. \(Boundary Layer Meteorology from East Anglia University, UK in 1997. He is currently a Director of USM's Islamic Centre and Coordinator of Astronomy and Atmospheric Science Research Unit, Un iversiti Sains Malaysia He is currently a faculty member in the School of Physics, Universiti Sains Malaysia, teaching courses in geophysics, meteorology and remote sensing. His research interests include meteorology applications  Wong Chow Jeng is lecturing at the school of Physics, Universiti Sains Malaysia. He received his B.Sc. \(Hons Physics \(1989 Plasma Physics \(1995\ from the University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. He successfully redesigned, built and tested a plasma focus fusion device for ICTP \(The International Centre of Theoretical Physics\ in Italy \(1990\ and also performed some research in ICTP. With 15 years of semiconductor manufacturing industry experiences in Design Engineering, Industrial Engineering Process Engineering, Qua lity Assurance, Quality Control, operations and management. He installed Internet Protocol camera for Malaysian Police, Armed Forces and also at petroleum platform. He is currently a faculty memb er in the School of Ph ysics, Universiti Sains Malaysia teaching courses in Engi neering Physics, such as design engineering and electronics engineeri ng. His research interests include remote sensing applications in the environmental pollution studies Presently, he is working on Internet Protocol camera remote sensing algorithm for retrievals of air quality water quality parameters and digital image classification  


  7  


  8  Figure 4. SHIELDOSE-2 Calculation for Program III   Figure 5.  Plot of several annual sample s of daily upset data.  A scaled versio n of the sunspot cycle, relevant CMEs and scaled accumulated total ionizing dose have been overlaid, showing potential co ntributions to the linearly increasing number of upsets 


  9   Figure 6. Error Rate and Sun Spot Activity Table 4. Summary of SSR upset rates and mission information.  Please note that the CREME96/Ac tual Upset rate ratio is based on actual upset rates versus p redicted upset rates from actual space weather Program Memory Type On Orbit Upsets Correctable Errors bit-day Predicted CREME96 Upset Rate per bit-day Ratio of Predicted CREME96 to On Orbit Upsets Shielding Assumption mils Al Approx Altitude km Approx Inclination deg I Samsung 64 Mb 1.55E-9 1.58E-8 10.20 150 600 25 II Samsung 64 Mb 4.44E-8 5.60E-8 1.26 150 850 100 III Samsung 64 Mb 2.93-8 3.15E-8 1.08 125 700 100 IV Samsung 128 Mb 2.15E-10 1.23E-9 5.72 150 325 50 V Hitachi 256 Mb 1.02E-11 6.29E-11 6.16 150 na na   


  10 Table 5. Ratios of CREME96 predicted upsets / Actual upsets as a function of shielding thickness.  Increased shielding indicates a more realistic prediction of on orbit rates Mils Aluminum Program I Program II Program III 150 10.20 1.26 1.0 5 200 9.8 5 1.20 1.01 300 9.37 1.13 0.9 5  Both sensitive volume assumptions and shielding assumptions used in CREME96 have been explored as discussed in this report.  Sensitive volume for earth orbiting spacecraft which transit thr ough the Van Allen belts is negligible compared to trapped protons. Most of the data presented used 150 mil shielding as indicated in Table 4  When other thicknesses, ranging from 150 mils to 400 mils were explored as shown in Table 5 less than a 17% change was observed in the predicted upset rate.  A minor difference between the observed and the predicted number of upsets for the majority of the programs analyzed indicates that the models are relatively accurate in predicting upset rates even after the SV and shielding assumptions were explored. SEAKR Engineering has ongoing research underway to explore radiation effects associated with these and hi gher density DRAM memories B IOGRAPHY  Chris Miller is the Director of Space Programs at SEAKR Engineering.  Chris received his MBA in Finance from the University of Denver in 1990 and his B.S in Electrical Engineering from Colorado State University in 1984.  His professional experience includes spacecraft desi gn, integration, test, and mission operations at Martin Marietta \(now Lockheed Martin\Science Wind Polar, and Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft as well as managing multiple unit level design, build, and test programs of Solid State Recorder and Avionics subsystems at SEAKR Engineering Russ Owen is a Radiation Effects Engineer at SEAKR Engineering, Inc.  His interests include both natural space and strategic hardening of electronic systems and development of radiation test systems and methodologies Russ received his M.S. in Solid State Electrical Engineering from the Boston University in 2006, and his B.E. in Electrical Engineering from Vanderbilt University in 2000 His academic research focu sed on III-V photo-detector design, modeling, and simulation Matthew Rose is a Radiation Effects Engineer at SEAKR Engineering, Inc Matt received his Masters of Science in Microwave Engineering from the University of Kansas. He has worked in the satellite and commercial electronics field for 14 years at Hughes Space and Communications, Skyworks, Lucix, and SEAKR Engineering Paul M. Rutt is a Senior Scientist and Manager of Design Assurance and Radiation Effects at SEAKR Engineering Inc. Paul received a Ph.D. in Experimental Nuclear Physics from William and Mary in 1993, a M.S. in Physics from Michigan State University in 1988, and a B.S in Applied Physics from Xavier University in 1986. Paul's research interests include SEE mitigation in ASIC technologies and strategies for the radiation qualification of COTS electronics for use in space applications Justin J. Schaefer is a Radiation Effects Engineer at SEAKR Engineering, Inc Justin received his M.S. in Astronomy from the University of Florida in 2006, and his B.S. in Physics from the University of Wyoming in 2003.  His academic research encompassed multiwavelength observational astronomy of stellar, galactic and extra-galactic objects, literature and database research and modeling of astrophysical systems.  Justin's current research interests include the study and modeling of local space weather to predict SEE proba bilities for space systems, SEE mitigation strategies and the development of radiation characterization methods and test platforms for COTS integrated circuits Ian A. Troxel is the Future Systems Architect at SEAKR Engi neering, Inc.  Ian received his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Florida in 2006, where his graduate research focused on developing fault tolerance a nd application management services for embedded space systems.  Ian\222s research interests include fault tolerance strategies for nextgeneration processor systems, developing characterization methods for radiation accepta nce testing of advanced processors and the design of optical interconnects for embedded space systems R EFERENCES   Cosm ic Ray Effects on Micro Electronics CREME96 https://creme96.nrl.navy.mil    NASA, \2232006 NASA St rat e gi c Pl an,\224 NP-200602-423-HQ, NASA Headquarters, Washington D.C February 2006 


  11   C  M a rchant  D. East i n and R Ferguson Upgrading the US Space Shuttle fleet with a New 'Smart Cockpit Proc. Digital Avionics Systems Conference DASC Daytona Beach, FL October 14-18, 2001 4 L. Ad am s, K. Ch ao M. Feh r in g e r C Miller P Murray, \223Challenges in Implementing Commercial NonVolatile Memory in Spacecraf t Solid State Recorders,\224 Proc. Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium  Arlington, VA, November 15, 2000  Space Environm ent Inform ation System  SPENVIS\a.be   R  Koga S. C r ai n, J. George, S. LaLum ondi ere, K Crawford, P. Yu, and V. Tran, \223Variability in Measured SEE Sensitivity Associated with Design and Fabrication Iterations\224  IEEE NSREC REDW 2003   B G. Henson, P.T. M c Donal d and W J St apor 223SDRAM Space Radiation Effects Measurements and Analysis\224  IEEE NSREC REDW 1999   Nat i onal Geophy si cal Dat a Cent er \(NGDC   Nat i onal Oceanographi c and At m o spheri c Administration \(NOAA eather Predictions SPE.txt   Sol a r and Hel i o spheri c Observat ory    I Troxel M Fehri nger, and M C h enowet h 223Achieving Multipurpose Space Imaging with the ARTEMIS Reconfigurable Payload Processor,\224 Proc Aerospace Conference Big Sky, MT, March 1-8, 2008   Ian Troxel Paul  M u rray, and Dave Jungkind Achieving Fault-Tolerant Spaceborne Computing with Commercial Components Proc. Workshop on FaultTolerant Spaceborne Computing Employing New Technologies Sandia National Labs, Albuquerque, NM May 28-30, 2008   C Poi v ey G. Gee, J. B a rt h, K LaB e l  and H Safren, \223Lessons Learned from Radiation Induced Effects on Solid State Recorders \(SSR\ories\224 Draft 12 2002   Sam s ung KM 44V16000 seri es dat a sheet    Sam s ung KM 44S32030 seri es dat a sheet   


  12  


REFERENCES 1 Steinberg A 2000 Data Fusion System Engineering International Society of Information Fusion 2]Klein L 1999 Sensor and Data Fusion Concepts and Applications 2nd ed SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham WA 3]Gruber T 1993 A Translation Approach to Portable Ontologies Knowledge Acquisition 5\(2 199-220 4]Boury-Brisset A 2003 Ontology-based Approach for Information Fusion International Society of Information Fusion 5 Martins J and Pinto H 2004 Ontologies How can they be built Knowledge and Information Systems Springer-Verlag London 14 de Weck 0 and Simchi-Levi D 2006 HaughtonMars Project Expedition 2005 Interplanetary Supply Chain Management and Logistics Architectures MITINASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate and Research  Technology Program NASA/TP-2006214196 15 Kobayashi K Munekata F and Watanabe K 1994 Accurate navigation via differential GPS and vehicle local sensors in Proc IEEE Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 9-16 16 Mirabadi A Mort N and Schmid F 1996 Application of sensor fusion to railway systems in Proc IEEE/SICE/RSJ Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 185-192 17 Luo R Chih-Chen Y and Su K 2002 Multi-sensor Fusion and Integration Approaches and Future Research Directions IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 2 No 2 pp 102119 6 Van Heist G Schreiber A and Wielinga B 1997 Using explicit ontologies in KBS development Int J Hum Computer Stud 46\(2/3 pp 183-292 7 Guarino N 1998 Formal ontology and information systems In Guarino N ed Formal ontology in information systems IOS Press Amsterdam pp.3-15 8 Wald L 1999 Some Terms of Reference in Data Fusion IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol 37 No 3 9 Waltz E and Llinas J 1990 Multi sensor Data Fusion Artech House Norwood MIA 10 Bowman C 2004 The Dual Node Network DNN Data Fusion  Resource Management DF&RM Architecture AIAA Intelligent Systems Conference Chicago 11 Hall D and Llinas J 1997 An Introduction to Multisensor Data Fusion IEEE Proceedings Vol 85 No 1 12 Russell S and P Norvig 2003 Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach 2nd ed Pearson Education Inc New Jersey 13 Lin G et al 2005 Transforming the military through sense and respond IBM Business Consulting Services White Paper IBM Global Services Somers NY BIOGRAPHY Atif Mirza is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton He specializes in corporate strategy and operations advisory for clients in the Global Aerospace and Defense Practice Prior to joining Booz Allen Mr Mirza was a graduate student at MIT where he was a System Design and Management Fellow in the Engineering Systems Division He holds a joint SM degree in Engineering and Management from MIT/Sloan and a BEng with Honors in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Edinburgh Scotland 13 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


