 1 The Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet Architecture  Alberto Elfes a Gregg W. Podnar b John M. Dolan b Stephen Stancliff b Ellie Lin b Jeffrey C. Hosler c  Troy J. Ames c John Higinbotham d John R. Moisan e Tiffany A. Moisan e Eric A. Kulczycki a  a Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Ins titute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91109 USA b The Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 USA c NASA Goddard Space Flight F 
acility, Greenbelt, MD 20771 USA d Emergent Space Technologies, Greenbelt, MD 20770  e NASA Wallops Flight Facility, Wallops Island, VA 23337 USA Emails: elfes@jpl.nasa.gov, gwp@cs.cmu.edu, jmd@cs.c mu.edu, stancliff@cmu.edu, elliel@andrew.cmu.edu jeffrey.c.hosler@nasa.gov, troy.j.ames nasa.gov, john.higinbotham@emergentspace.com, John.R.Moisan@nasa.gov tmoisan@osb1.wff.nasa.gov, eric.a.kulczycki@jpl.nasa.gov   Abstract Earth science research must bridge the gap between the atmosphere and the ocean to foster understanding of Earth`s climate and ecology. Ocean sensing is typically done with satellites, buoys, and crewed research ships.  The limitations of these systems include the fact that satellites are often blocked by cloud cover, and buoys and ships have spatial coverage limitations. This 
paper describes a Multilevel Autonomy Robot Telesupervision Architecture \(MARTA\ for multi-robot science exploration, and an embodiment of the MARTA architecture in a real world system called the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet \(TAOSF\upervises and coordinates a group of robotic boats, the OASIS platforms, to enable in-situ study of phenomena in the ocean/atmosphere interface, as well as on the ocean surface and sub-surface. The OASI S platforms are extendeddeployment autonomous ocean surface vehicles, whose development is funded separately by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrati on \(NOAA\. TAOSF allows a human operator to effectively supervise and coordinate multiple robotic assets using the MARTA multi-level autonomy control architecture 
where the operating mode of the vessels ranges from autonomous control to teleoperated human control. TAOSF increases data-gathering effectiveness and science return while reducing demands on scientists for robotic asset tasking, control, and monitoring The first field application chosen for TAOSF is the characterization of Harmful Algal Blooms \(HABs\. We discuss the overall TAOSF system and the underlying MARTA architecture, describe field tests conducted under controlled conditions using rhodamine dye as a HAB simulant, present initial results from these tests, and outline the next steps in the development of TAOSF 12   T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 
1 2  TAOSF  A RCHITECTURE 2 3  OASIS  P LATFORMS AND I NFRASTRUCTURE 3   1  1-4244-14881/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1293, Version 3, updated 2007:12:22  4  H ARMFUL A LGAL B LOOMS 4 5  HAB  S ENSING AND C HARACTERIZATION  4 6  A ERIAL F 
IELD T EST O BSERVATION P LATFORM 6 7  I NTEGRATED S YSTEM T ESTING AND V ALIDATION 7 8  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK 8 A CKNOWLEDGMENTS 8 R EFERENCES 8 B IOGRAPHY 9  1  I NTRODUCTION  Earth science research requires information obtained from space, the atmosphere and the o cean to foster understanding of the Earth and its natural processes. Developing a better 
understanding of ocean processes, in particular, is crucial for global warming, meteorological and ecological studies Ocean sensing is typically done with satellites, buoys airborne assets and crewed research vessels. Satellites and airplanes are limited by cloud cover and temporal/geographical coverage and resolution, while research vessels are expensive to deploy, and buoys cannot be self-deployed to specific areas of interest The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA\ is addressing some of these constraints through the development of robotic ocean boats for weather-related ocean monitoring. The OASIS Ocean-Atmosphere Sensor Integration System\essels are long-duration solar-powered autonomous surface vehicles ASVs\igned for global open-ocean operations \(Figs. 1, 4, 5\. One of the key 
objectives of our research is to enhance the science value of multiple robotic sensing assets such as the OASIS vessels by coordinating their operation, adapting their activities in response to sensor observations, and allowing a human operator to oversee multiple assets with minimal effort This paper describes a multi-robot science exploration software architecture called Multilevel Autonomy Robot Telesupervision Architecture \(MARTA\, and a real-world system that embodies MARTA called the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet \(TAOSF\upervises and coordinates a group of robotic boats, the OASIS platforms, to enable in-situ study of phenomena in the 


 2 ocean/atmosphere interface, as well as on the ocean surface and sub-surface The TAOSF system is applicable to the study of dynamic processes such as coastal pollutants, oil spills, hurricanes or harmful algal blooms. More generally, the underlying architecture, MARTA, can be used in a variety of areas where multiple sensing assets are needed, including ecological forecasting, water management, carbon management, disaster management, coastal management homeland security, and planetary exploration The first field application chosen for TAOSF is the characterization of Harmful Al gal Blooms \(HABs\. In the following sections, we will discuss the overall TAOSF architecture, introduce the HAB problem, describe field tests conducted under controlled conditions using rhodamine dye as a HAB simulant, present initial results from these tests, and outline the next steps in the development of TAOSF  Figure. 1. Artist’s concept of the OASIS robot vessels investigating the nature and extent of a Harmful Algal Bloom \(HAB  2  TAOSF  A RCHITECTURE  The TAOSF system architectur e \(Fig. 2\ provides an integrated approach to multi-robot coordination and sliding robot-human autonomy. It allows multiple mobile sensing assets to function in a cooperative fashion, and the operating mode of different vehicles to vary from autonomous control to teleoperated control TAOSF supports the following features   Multi-Level autonomy allowing an operator to control the vehicles by setting high-level goals, such as specifying an area to monitor, or by taking direct control of the vehicles via teleoperation, or at other autonomy levels in between   Adaptive replanning of the activities of the OASIS vessels based on sensor inputs \(dynamic sensing\ and coordination between multiple assets thereby increasing data-gathering ef fectiveness while reducing the effort required for tasking, control, and monitoring of the vehicles   Web-based communications permitting control and communications over long distances and the sharing of data with remote experts   Autonomous hazard and assistance detection  allowing automatic identifica tion of hazards that require human intervention to ensure the safety and integrity of the robotic vehicles, or of science data that require human interpretation and response   Onboard science analysis of the acquired data in order to perform an initial assessment of the presence of specific science signatures of immediate interest  Figure 2. The TAOSF architecture  The TAOSF system software arch itecture \(Fig. 2\integrates and extends five subsystems developed by the participating institutions. The five TAOSF components \(Fig. 3 below 1  The OASIS Autonomous Surface Vehicle \(ASV System includes the vessels themselves, as well as the landbased control and communications infrastructure which has been developed for them.  The OASIS platform software directly controls the hardware of each boat \(sensors actuators, etc.\pr ovides a low-level waypoint navigation capability. This system has been developed by Emergent Space Technologies \(EST\working with the team members at the NASA Wallops Flight Facility \(WFF where the platforms are built and maintained 2  The Multi-Platform Simulation Environment has been developed by NASA Goddard Space Flight Facility GSFC\urrogate for the OASIS ASV system, allowing independent development and testing of the higher-level software components 3  The Platform Communicator acts as a proxy for both 


 3 actual and simulated platforms It translates platformindependent messages from the higher control systems to the device-dependent communication protocols. This component, developed by GSFC, enables the higher-level control systems to interact identically with heterogeneous actual or simulated platforms 4  The Adaptive Sensor Fleet \(ASF provides autonomous platform assignment and path planning for area coverage surveys, as well as monitoring of mission progress.  The ASF is developed by GSFC 5  The System Supervision Architecture \(SSA provides high-level planning, monitoring, and telesupervision, as well as analysis of science data from both the OASIS platforms and external sources such as satellite imagery and fixed sensors.  These data are used by the SSA to plan vessel navigational trajectories for data gathering. The SSA also provides an operator interface for those occasions when a scientist desires to exert direct monitoring and control of individual boats and their instruments. The SSA is based on the Robot Supervision Architecture [1  devel ope d b y  CMU and JPL  OASIS ASV System EST  Platform Communicator GSFC Multi-Platform Simulation Environment GSFC Adaptive Sensor Fleet GSFC System Supervision Architecture CMU/JPL  Figure 3. Software components of the TAOSF architecture  Our initial development effort has concentrated on the integration of these subsystems. We have demonstrated endto-end integration of SSA, ASF and OASIS in a dry-boat test in May of 2007, and execut ed integrated in-water tests in the Chesapeake bay in June and August of 2007  3  OASIS  P LATFORMS AND I NFRASTRUCTURE  The NOAA-funded OASIS Platform Build Team, which consists of EG&G, Zinger Enterprises, and Emergent Space Technologies, provides vehicle development, payload integration and testing, operations, and maintenance of the OASIS fleet and ground systems. The OASIS platform itself is a long-duration solar-powered autonomous surface vehicle \(ASV\ designed for autonomous global open-ocean operations \(Fig. 4\. The platform is approximately 18 feet long and weighs just over 3000 lbs. The vehicle has a payload capacity of 500 lbs, and is designed to be selfrighting to ensure survivability in heavy seas.  It supports a wide range of communication links including spread spectrum radio, a cellular phone link, and an Iridium satellite link  Figure 4. The OASIS boat with its primary sensor systems Two platforms \(named OASIS1 and OASIS2\re currently undergoing testing at WFF and will support operations for the TAOSF project. Additi onal platforms are under production. OASIS shakedown operations have been performed since early 2005 in the waters of the DELMARVA region, including the Chincoteague Bay and Pocomoke Sound. The first open-ocean deployment of the OASIS system was performed in November 2006 \(Fig. 5 During this operation, the OASIS2 platform successfully navigated over 8 nautical miles on a transect line established in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast from WFF.  OASIS1 and OASIS2 are currently undergoing upgrades, sensor integration, and testing in preparation for endurance trials and science operations  Figure 5. First open-ocean deployment of an OASIS platform, November 2006 Sensors onboard the OASIS2 pl atform enable the collection of water salinity and conductivity data, sea surface temperature, and chlorophyll measurements. A rhodamine fluorometer was integrated to support mapping operations during dye deployment tests.  The forward payload bay 


 4 provides space for installation of additional sensors. This bay includes a water flow-through system with manifolds and a de-bubbling system which simplifies installation of new sensors A mast-mounted meteorological station allows acquisition of atmospheric measurements, including barometric pressure, air temperature, rela tive humidity, wind speed, and wind direction. OASIS2 is also equipped with a forwardlooking digital imaging system providing remotely located scientists with images of atmospheric and sea state conditions \(Fig. 14 The off-board infrastructure developed by EST is known as the OASIS Mission Operations Environment \(MOE\The MOE resides in the Wallops Coastal Ocean Observation Laboratory \(WaCOOL\ control room and provides applications and services that enable the WFF engineering and science operations team to perform platform commanding and telemetry monitoring, as well as communications management. The MOE also provides a middleware interface to enable other customers, such as the TAOSF project, to integrate new systems that further enhance OASIS science operations 4  H ARMFUL A LGAL B LOOMS  Interest in Harmful Algal Bloom \(HAB\ection has grown in recent years for scientific, commercial and public health reasons. Depending on the type of algae present HABs have been shown to be dangerous to sea life and to human health The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute \(WHOI\as mapped the distribution of Alexandrium fundyense cysts in the sea floor of the Gulf of Ma  T h e Flori d a Fis h a n d Wildlife Research Institute is analyzing a historical database of  concentrations of the HAB dinoflagellate Karenia Brevis  in Florida waters [6 ile th e No rt h w est Fish eries Science Center is developing probes for detecting toxins produced by different species of Pseudo-nitzschia 7 There is a significant interest in identifying environmental factors that contribute to th e occurrence of HABs, so that these may be incorporated in bloom prediction algorithms A regional study on the dinoflagellate Karlodinium veneficum has been generating near real-time maps of HABs in the Chesapeake Bay using a hydrodynamic model and satellite data [8 e m e t h odo log y u s es ti m e o f year salinity, and sea-surface te mperature to predict the abundance \(low, medium, or high\of the dinoflagellate The accuracy of these predic tions is currently under evaluation. Another group has developed a system of tracking and predicting the spatiotemporal dynamics of the HAB species Karenia Brevis in the Gulf of Mexico [9 e similarity of target objects in consecutive images is used to track the target over time.  The system predicts the spatiotemporal dynamics of a bloom using a cellular automaton model to simulate the growth, shrinkage, and collision of blooms under specific wind conditions. This interactive system has been shown to give a 30x speedup over the manual analysis of the image data TAOSF will provide the following advantages over existing systems for observing and analyzing HABs   Dynamic tasking and adaptation   Higher in situ resolution and greater insensitivity to cloud cover in comparison with current satellite systems   Access to and greater agility in coastal waters than what is available through buoys   Real-time multipoint science data observations and generation of associated interpretations by remotely located oceanographers 5  HAB  S ENSING AND C HARACTERIZATION  Our work in this area has two components  Fi rst  we a r e assembling and analyzing all known HAB-related data from the Chesapeake Bay area. Second, for initial sensor testing and validation we have developed a means of producing and ground-truthing a surrogat e HAB using rhodamine, a fluorescent compound commonly used as a water tracer dye HAB datasets and analysis The Maryland Department of Natural Resources \(DNR\ has provided us with descripti ons and HAB species cell-count data from five regions in the Chesapeake and Coastal Bays that have experienced algal blooms.  We used a Gaussian process approach to predic t the cell counts of the dinoflagellate Karlodinium micrum from water quality features \(temperature, salinity, and dissolved oxygen\.  The results \(Fig. 6\ Gaussian processes using a Gaussian kernel perform just as well as linear regression does for predicting cell counts  Fig. 6. Predicted log cell counts of Karlodinium micrum  from temperature using th ree different algorithms mean, linear regression \(linR\and Gaussian process GP\.  The points used for training and testing the algorithms are depicted as g reen dots and cyan asterisks respectively 


 5 We also investigated an ad aptive sampling approach using the Regional Ocean Modeling Sy stem \(ROMS\odel of the Chesapeake Bay using Gaussian processes to select positions for obtaining sensor measurements to optimally characterize the distributio n of salinity from known temperature data.  The results \(Fig. 7\how the advantage of the adaptive sampling appro ach over random selection of sampling positions. The mutual information algorithm achieves low RMS error after selecting only a few points to sample and asymptotically approaches the minimum faster than the random selection algorithm [10    Figure 7. Root Mean Square \(RMS\ror in selecting points using the Gaussian process-based adaptive sampling approach with the mutual information metric vs. using random selection  The next step in our analysis will be to integrate MODIS Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer data \(Chlorophyll A and sea surface temperature\ with the DNR cell-count data for HAB prediction Visual rhodamine dye mapping Since HABs are sporadic ocean phenomena, we are using rhodamine WT \(water-tracing dye [1 as a HAB s u r r ogat e  for initial experiments and tests. Because some of the TAOSF system testing and validation is done using an aerial imaging platform \(discussed later\me necessary to correlate aerial dye visibility to dye concentration in the water. This was done by imaging dye diffusion and visibility in a local pond in Pittsburgh [12  The pond, called Schenley Park Lake \(Fig. 8\, has a surface area of about 9900m 2 and a depth conservatively estimated at 1m. The first dye patch, w ith a concentration of 5ppm was dispersed from a location at the lower right of the pond and is shown after 20 minutes of dispersion, when it covered an area of approximately 65m 2 At this time, the patch was still quite visible from an overhead camera, but not nearly as intense as the second patch. The latter patch also with an initial dye surface concentration of 5ppm, is shown dispersed over a 30m 2 area.  Surface water samples were taken of each patch at measured time intervals and were analyzed using the same fluorometers used on the OASIS platform. This allows us to establish a baseline for correlating camera visibility with in-water concentration measurements  Figure 8. Two dye patches si mulating algal blooms. The first \(earlier\patch is shown on the lower right, while the second \(subsequent\patch is on the upper right. The test was conducted at the Schenley Park Lake in Pittsburgh Automated Dye Patch Mapping In the TAOSF system, we use the Inference Grid \(IG\ model to represent multiple spatially- and temporally-varying properties. The Inference Grid is a probabilistic multiproperty spatial lattice model \(a Markov Random Lattice 13, 14 wh ere sen s or info rm atio n is stored in sp atially an d  temporally registered form, and which is used for both scientific inferences and for vehicle mission planning. The information in each Inference Grid cell is represented as a stochastic vector, and metrics such as entropy are used to measure the uncertainty in the IG [15, 16 As part of the HAB sensing and characterization effort, we have developed an initial automated dye patch mapping system using the IG model.  Overhead imagery of the pond was processed to perform automated cluster identification using an unsupervised clustering algorithm. Using a reference dye spectral signature, the dye dispersion patch was identified and segmented in the image, and a probabilistic metric was associated with the distance to the reference signature in the spectral space. The results for a single pond image are shown in Fig. 9, and for a sequence of images in Fig. 10  


 6  Figure 9. The left image shows the first patch in Fig. 8 after several minutes of dye dispersion. The center plot shows the RGB intensity distributions of the left image automated image segmentation is done using an unsupervised clustering algorithm. The map on the right shows an Inference Grid with the spatially distributed probabilities of dye being present in the water   Figure 10. Automated dye patch extent mapping and characterization using the Inference Grid. The images in the bottom row show the first patch in Fig. 8 dispersing over time. The evolution of the corresponding Inference Grid is shown in the upper row, where the spatially and temporally varying dye presence probabilities are shown. The images and maps are rotated counterclockwise \(relative to Figs. 8 and 9 presentation convenience  6  A ERIAL F IELD T EST O BSERVATION P LATFORM  One important component in the field testing and validation process of the overall TAOSF system is the ability to have a bird’s eye” view of how an al gal bloom \(or a dye patch\is moving and dispersing in the water, and how the OASIS boats are responding to this process. To address this need we developed a low-altitude aerial system carrying an avionics package with a recording GPS, barometric altimeter, magnetic compass, serial data link, wide-angle color camera, and transmitter [1 0, 12  F i g 11 de pi ct s a  typical deployment and testing configuration, with the OASIS platforms investigating a dye-simulated bloom, and an aerostat carrying the syst em observation and validation avionics package tethered to a human-piloted chase boat  Figure 11. Concept of the TAOSF field validation system: an overhead aerostat \(an unmanned blimp tethered to a manned field operations vessel\ provides a global visual overview  of three OASIS platforms and a patch of rhodamine dye. The overhead map is shown on the right The TAOSF aerial observation platform is a 6m long, 2m diameter aerostat \(Fig. 12\The aerostat is an unmanned helium-filled, lighter-than-air \(LTA\limp on a tether. In its current configuration the system is flown unpowered. The onboard avionics package \(Fig. 13\ is gimballed, and includes a GPS, a barometric altimeter, a magnetic compass a serial wireless data link, a wide-angle color camera, and a video transmitter. The total weight is 700g We emphasize that the aerial observation platform is not currently being used to help identify and track HABs rather, its purpose is to provid e a global view of our field tests to assess the in situ performance of the TAOSF system   Figure 12. The TAOSF aerost at observation platform The aerostat is an unmanned, lighter-than-air \(LTA unpowered blimp on a tether. Helium is used for buoyancy. The avionics package \(Fig. 13\s mounted below the aerostat  


 7  Figure 13. The gimballed TAOSF observation platform avionics package includes a GPS, a barometric altimeter, a magnetic compas s, a serial wireless data link, a wide-angle color camera, and a video transmitter  7  I NTEGRATED S YSTEM T ESTING AND V ALIDATION  The first integrated in-water tests of the TAOSF architecture were conducted on 27 June and 21 August, 2007. The following discussion focuses on the 21 August test, where a single OASIS boat was used, the aerial observation platform was deployed, and rhodamine dye tracks were laid by a manned chase boat. The aerostat platform was also tethered to the chase boat \(Fig. 15\ the sequence we show initial results from this test A forward view from the OASIS camera was displayed on the remote operator workstation \(Fig. 14\wing teleoperation of the boat if necessary.  The rhodamine tracks laid are shown in Fig. 15  Figure 14. Forward view from the OASIS boat, as seen from the remote operator workstation   Figure 15. Aerial view from the aerostat observation platform. The chase boat \(with aerostat tether\ in the upper part of the image, the OASIS boat in the lower part, and the rhodamine dye tracks laid by the chase boat are visible towards the right part of the image A spiral search pattern was planned and executed by the ASF component of the TAOSF system \(Figs. 16 – 18\he operator interface is based in part on the Multi-Robot Operator Control Unit \(MOCU\7 it d i sp lays th e b o at  trajectory, telemetry and positi on within a satellite map \(Fig 16\. The trajectories of both the OASIS boat and the aerostat test observation platform are shown in Fig. 17, and the measured rhodamine dye concen trations along the search path in Fig. 18   Figure 16.  The Multi-Robo t Operator Control Unit MOCU\, part of SSA. The right pane shows the spiral search pattern planned and executed by the ASF component of TAOSF. The upper left pane displays the engineering and science telemetry from the OASIS boat, while the lower left pane shows the position of the OASIS platform overlaid on a satellite view of the operating area  


 8  Figure 17. A satellite view of the August 21 field test area. The GPS track of the OASIS boat is shown in red while the aerostat observatio n path \(obtained from the onboard avionics\wn in white  Figure 18. A slanted view of the ocean area where the test was conducted. Th e measured rhodamine concentrations are shown as a vertical “ribbon” along the route taken by the OASIS boat \(as shown in Figs. 16 and 17 8  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper describes a telesupervision architecture for multiple autonomous platforms and its application to the particular problem of the detection of harmful algal blooms Initial work has concentrated on the integration of subsystems developed by the collaborating organizations, in the development of HAB and dye observation systems, and in building an aerial platform to allow observation of the TAOSF system and the OASIS bo ats from the air. In-water tests have demonstrated the viability of the MARTA architecture as instan tiated in TAOSF One of our key next steps is an extended end-to-end test in which multiple OASIS platforms map a rhodamine-dye HAB surrogate under human telesupervision. Over the next year we plan to increase the number of platforms, develop and deploy adaptive sensing algorithms, and continue deploying the TAOSF system in the Chesapeake Bay estuary Because of their in-situ observation capabilities and resolution, as well as their adaptivity, telesupervised autonomous surface vehicles are crucial to the sensor web for Earth science. The MARTA telesupervision architecture underlying TAOSF is broadly applicable to a wide variety of domains beyond HABs, incl uding ecological forecasting water management, carbon management, disaster management, coastal management, homeland security, and planetary exploration A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work was supported by NASA award NNX06AF27G Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”, granted under the Advanced Information Systems Technology program of NASA’s Earth Systems Technology Office ESTO\he TAOSF project is a collaboration among Carnegie Mellon University CMU Flight Center \(GSFC\, NASA Goddard’s Wallops Flight Facility \(WFF\mergent Space Technologies, Inc. \(EST and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\ifornia Institute of Technology. Work on the OASIS platforms is conducted by Emergent Space Technologies, Inc., EG&G, and Zinger Enterprises under award NA03NOS4730220 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA\, U.S. Department of Commerce R EFERENCES    G Po d n ar J. M  D o lan   A. El fes M  B e rge r m a n, H  B Brown, and A. D. Guisewite. "Human Telesupervision of a Fleet of Autonomous Robots for Safe and Efficient Space Exploration". Proceedings of the 1st Annual Conference on Human-Robot Interaction \(HRI-2006\e City, UT USA, March 2-4, 2006   E Halbe r stam L. Na v a rr oSerm ent, R. Cone scu   S Mau, G. Podnar, A. D. Guisewite, H. B. Brown, A. Elfes, J M. Dolan, and M. Bergerman. "A Robot Supervision Architecture for Safe and E fficient Space Exploration and Operation." Proceedings of the 10th Biennial International Conference on Engineering, Construction, and Operations in Challenging Environments, Houston, TX, USA, March 5-8 2006    A. El fes J. M   Dola n G Po d n ar S M a u, a n d M   Bergerman. "Safe and Effici ent Robotic Space Exploration with Tele-Supervised Autonomous Robots." Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium 2006, Stanford, CA, USA March 27-29, 2006   G Po d n ar J. D o lan  A  Elfes, a nd M  Berge r m a n  Human Telesupervision of Very Heterogeneous Planetary Robot Teams”. In Proceedi ngs of the AIAA Space 2007 Conference, Long Beach, CA, 18 – 20 September 2007 


 9  5 Wood s Ho le Ocean ographic In stitu tion    http://www.whoi.edu  6 and  Wild life Research  In stitu te http://research.myfwc.com    No rth w est Fishe r ies Sci e nce Ce nter Harm ful Al ga l Blooms Program http://www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/hab/index.html  8 ing Harm fu l Alg a l Blo o m s in th e Ch esap eak e Bay   http://coastwatch.noaa.gov/cbay_hab  9 a l Transform a tio n fo r Sp atio tem p o r al  Data Mining", Journal of Knowledge and Information Systems \(KAIS\ol. 11, No. 5, 2007, Springer  1 J. M   D o l a n G Po d n ar  S. St a n cl i ff E  Li n J H o sl er T. Ames, J. Moisan, T. Moisan, J. Higinbotham, and A Elfes. “Harmful Algal Bloo m Characterization via the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. Proceedings of the 2007 NASA Science and Technology Conference NSTC-07\ College Park, MD, June 19 – 21 2007  1 Tec hni cal  Dat a S h eet   http://www.coleparmer.com/ca talog/Msds/msdbes002.pdf  1 A. El fes J. Dol a n an d G. P o d n ar T he Tel e su per v i s ed Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. In Proceedings of the Conference on Atmospheric and Environmental Remote Sensing Data Processing and Utilization III: Readiness for GEOSS, 2007 SPIE Symposium on Optical Engineering and Applications. San Diego, CA, 26 – 30 August 2007  1 A El fes  Usi n g  Occ u pancy  Gri d s f o r M obi l e R o bot Perception and Navigation”. IEEE Computer Magazine Special Issue on Autonomous Intelligent Machines, v. 22, n 6, June 1989  1 A. El fes Dy nam i c C ont rol o f R o b o t P e rcept i o n Usi n g Stochastic Spatial Models. In G. Schmidt \(ed.\ation Processing in Mobile Robots, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, July 1991  15 A. Elfes Mu lti-Sou r ce Sp atial Fu si o n Using Bayesi an Reasoning. In M. A. Abidi and R. C. Gonzalez \(eds.\, Data Fusion in Robotics and Machine Intelligence, Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1992  1 A  El fes  R ob ot  Navi gat i on  I n t e gr a t i ng Pe rce p t i o n Environment Constraints and Task Execution Within a Probabilistic Framework”. In Reasoning with Uncertainty in Robotics, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 1996  1 B r uch  M  H  T he m u l t i rob o t  o p era t or c o nt r o l u n i t  MOCU\," SPIE Proc. 6230: Unmanned Systems Technology VIII, Defense Security Symposium, Orlando FL, April 18-20, 2006   B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Alberto Elfes is a Principal Member of Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Systems Section at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\He leads projects in the areas of autonomous aerial vehicles for planetary exploration coordination and control of robot/robot and robot/human teams and space mission planning and architecture optimization. He has held positions as Director of the Automation Institute, Brazil, and as a research scientist at th e IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, the Engineering Design Research Center and the Robotics Institute, CMU. Additionally, he has held university professorships in Brazil and Germany. He has an E.Eng. degree in Electronics Engineering and an M.Sc degree in Computer Science from the Aeronautics Institute of Technology \(ITA\razil, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineer ing, with concentration in Robotics, from Carnegie-Mellon University. Dr. Elfes has over 100 publications in international journals, conferences and books, and has lectured ex tensively in North America Europe, Brazil and Japan. He is a recipient of the Mercator Professorship Award of the German Research Foundation DFG   


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


