Emergent Intertransaction Association Rules for Abnormality Detection in Intelligent Environments  Sebastian Luihr Svetha Venkatesh Geoff West Department of Computing Curtin University of Technology Kent Street Bentley Western Australia luhrs svetha geoff cs.curtin.edu.au Abstract This paper is concerned with identifying anomalous behaviour of people in smart environments We propose the use of emergent transaction mining and the use of the extended frequent pattern tree as a basis Our experiments on two data sets demonstrate that emergent intertransaction associations are able to detect abnormality present in real world data and that both short and long term behavioural 
changes can be discovered The use of intertransaction associations is shown to be advantageous in the detection of temporal association anomalies otherwise not readily detectable by traditional market basket intratransaction mining 1 INTRODUCTION Population ageing is a modern phenomenon that sees a growing proportion of the global population becoming aged 60 years and older 1 An expected consequence of this trend is an increase in the number of people choosing to age at home in order to maintain an independent lifestyle for as long as possible 2 To help accommodate this growing number we seek to create an 
intelligent environment that is capable of providing both cognitive support to its occupant and assistance in the event of an accident or a significant change in a person's normal behaviour This work the first of a two stage process aims to identify the existence of anomalous behaviour that may require further investigation in the absence of a representative abnormal data set We propose the use of emergent intertransaction association rules as a novel approach to this problem Intertransaction association rule mining 3 is an extension of the intratransaction association rule mining problem 4 to include the discovery of relationships 
or itemsets spanning transactions in one or more arbitrary dimensions In our application we wish to find the temporal associations among state-change sensor events recorded in the homes of two volunteer subjects 5 6 The emergent intertransaction associations are defined as those rules that display strong growth in a database of new observations given some historical data set Discovery of such rules indicates the presence of new or unexpected increases in the frequency of behaviours and signals the need for further investigation or intervention by an occupant's supervisor or guardian 2 RELATED WORK Our work is similar 
to Jumping Emerging Patterns JEPs 7 and Emerging Patterns EPs 8 which seek to find those itemsets that display significant growth between sets of data Emerging patterns can be used in the detection of trends and have application in classification problems due to their ability to find the discriminative features between classes of data The difference between the EP mining problem and our work is that the former is concerned only with finding those itemsets that exhibit strong growth whereas we are interested in retaining the associative relationship among the items in our rule base A good 
example of the application of data mining to the detection of abnormality is given in 9 Here association rules and frequent episodes 10 are used to build a set of audit data and guide the design of a classifier for the detection of intrusive and malicious behaviour in a network environment In our work we chose to employ intertransaction associations rather than frequent episodes in order to retain some of the temporal ordering of associated events Another approach is to identify unusual patterns in data using domain specific measures of unexpectedness based on a set of beliefs Here unexpectedness 
is both a measure of how the patterns in some new data affect the degree of belief the system has in a set of soft beliefs and the discovery of patterns that violate user defined immutable beliefs 11 The work of 12 13 for example looks at the discovery of unusual patterns where unexpectedness is defined as a logical contradiction in beliefs Our work in contrast looks for previously unseen patterns and significant growth in the frequency of known patterns We do not consider the affect that new data has on existing patterns nor do we impose assumptions on what constitutes 
expected behaviour 3 EMERGENT INTERTRANSACTION ASSOCIATION RULES Multiple concurrent activities and unexpected interruptions in activity make the recognition of human behaviour as precise sequences of events difficult given the low level sensor data available to us In our system intratransaction associations function as a model of the events that are expected to occur in close temporal proximity while the intertransaction associations capture the larger context in which the intratransaction events occur The temporal component of the rules also provide us with a predictive element that can be used to forecast 0-7803-9399-6/05/$20.00 251 2005 IEEE ISSNIP 2005 343 


growth rIDBH DBN  fol 007 sup\(rIDBN sup\(rI DB11 the events we expect to see in a future interval given events already observed A Intertransaction Association Rules Intertransaction association rules are implications of the form X X Y with the properties 14 XCE,YCE 2 30\260 E X 3 3ad E Y d  0 4 XnY=0 5 where E a0,a\260 ad,...a is the set of all possible extended items formed by assigning an offset d to items that occur relative to some transaction Ti in a sliding intertransaction window of size w as it is passed over a database DB while forming the extended transaction set The database DBR\(T1 T2   TN is said to consist of transactions Ti 1  i  N such that Ti x E I V items x in Ti where I is the set of all items I  a a2  ai  amA found in DB The support measure for an association rule r is calculated as sup r  N where ITxyI is the number of extended transactions containing all items in X U Y and N is the number of transactions in DB The confidence of a rule is calculated as conf r e 1 where ITxI is the number of extended transactions containing all items in X We refer to the intratransaction items  al a\260  a  aM1  as intraitems and the extended transaction items  al a    ad  aw  as interitems As an example the rule Ao Bo C1 D3 XE3 implies that if we encounter A and B in the current transaction interval C in the next and D three transactions from now then E will also occur three transactions from now If A B C D and E map to the event descriptors kitchen sink cold water on kitchen sink cold water off dishwasher open dishwasher closed and dishwasher on respectively then one possible interpretation of the rule may be that it is normal to open the dishwasher close it again and then turn the machine on shortly after having used the cold water faucet in the kitchen sink presumably to rinse the dishes B Discovery of the Emergent Intertransaction Associations The discovery of emergent intertransaction associations seeks to find those rules that display significant growth in a database of new observations DBN over a historical data set DBH We say that an association rule r is emergent when its growth the ratio of its support in DBN to its support in DBH is greater than or equal to some threshold a and a minimum support threshold a on DBN has been met We have adopted Equation 1 8 as the growth function for this work if sup rIDBH 0 and sup rIDBN  0 if sup rIDBH  0 and sup\(rIDBN 0 O otherwise 1 Association rule mining on a database populated with many frequent items can become computationally expensive especially at the lower support thresholds where exponential growth in the number of rules present may result in a computational explosion In our application it is reasonable to expect that our historical data set will be larger and contain a much greater number of associations than will be present in the new data set It is impractical therefore to find the complete set of association rules for both DBH and DBN and then compare these sets to find the emergent association rules when the rules in DBN are expected to be a subset of those in DBH We instead employ the Extended FP-Tree EFP-Tree 15 an extension of the Frequent Pattern Tree FP-Tree 16 17 as an intermediate representation of both DBH and DBN The EFP-Tree is a tree structure of descending frequency ordered intraitem nodes that contain zero or one interitem FPTree subtrees where the frequency ordering of the subtrees is conditioned on the intraitem parent node Items are placed into the EFP-Tree such that the frequent items of an arbitrary extended transaction can be restored by traversing the tree Intertransaction association rules are retrieved from the EFP-Tree structure using the pattern growth property a divide and conquer approach to recursively find the complete set of intertransaction associations without the need for candidate generation Item constraints 18 are applied to the mining of DBH so that only a desired subset of rules are extracted This provides us with the ability to query DBN on the historical frequency of only those associations found to be frequent in DBN Simple examples for the historical database and the new observations database are given in Table 1 and Table 3 respectively Table 2 shows the extended itemsets that are retrieved from the historical database using a sliding intertransaction window of size w  2 The extended items retrieved from the new observations database are shown in Table 4 Mining the extended transactions in Table 4 with a minimum support of a  0.5 reveals the associations Do XEo Ao X D1 Ao X El and AoD X E1 We summarise the support of these associations in the new and historical databases with their corresponding growth values in Table 5 C Minimal Emergent Rules Only the set of minimal emergent rules were sought in this work This was to prevent the discovery process from returning an overwhelming number of rules the majority of which would be unlikely to offer any valuable information not already present in the minimal set Finding the set of minimal rules was achieved by ordering the mined associations by ascending rule length and discarding those rules known to contain emergent association subsets using previously detected 344 


 di    dz  have been incremented t intervals For example if r is an emergent rule C0 D2  E2 and q is the rule AO IBo0 C1 D3  E3 then q is also known to be emergent because r 1 c q holds true Although we applied filtering as a post process the EFPTree offers an opportunity to move the filtering process into the tree mining algorithm so as to guide the mining of both DBH and DBN Only those associations whose frequency were queried in the historical data set are included in the reported rule counts in Section 4 Only the associations Do X Eo Ao X Di and Ao 0 El from the discovered rules in Table 5 are minimal emergent AoD1 X E1 is considered to be non-minimal as it is a superset of both Ao  D1 and Ao  E1 4 EXPERIMENTATION AND RESULTS We have applied our method of emergent intertransaction rule discovery on the real world data described in 5 6 This data set comprises state-change sensor event logs recorded over a period of sixteen days in the homes of two volunteer subjects a working professional and an eighty year old retiree A total of 77 and 84 sensors were installed in the apartments of the first and second subject respectively Both participants were living independently at the time the data was gathered The event logs were discretised into transactions of five minute intervals and the unique sensor IDs were removed to reduce the information known about each event to include only the room in which the sensor was installed the appliance or item of furniture it was attached to and its state For example as we are only interested in a subject's general use of a chest of drawers and not the precise drawer that is opened several sensors attached to a chest of draws are reduced to the events Bedroom/Drawer true and Bedroom/Drawer false The sixteen days worth of event logs from each subject were divided into two weeks each week containing eight days of events Each week was in turn used as the historical database TABLE 3 NEW 013SERVATIONS DATABASE Trans ID Time Items 100 I A B200 2 D E 300 3 A 1 400 14 1CDE TABLE 4 EXTENDED TRANSACTIONS TABLE 1 HISTORICAL DATABASE Trans ID Time Items 100 1 A B E 200 2 E 300 3 A D 400 D4 BC I TABLE 2 EXTENDED TABLE 1 Time Extended transaction items I AO Bo Eo E1 A2 D2 2 Eo A1 D1 B2 C2 D2 3 AODoB1 C1 D1 4 Bo Co Do emergent rules An emergent association q is said to be non-minimal when 3 r t such that r t C q t  0 where  rd1+t d2+t di+t dz t is a known emergent rule whose intertransaction offsets d d2   RETRIEVED FROM THE NEW OBSERVATIONS DATABASE IN TABLE 3 Time Extended transaction items 1 AO Bo D1 E1 A2 2 Do Eo A1 C2 D2 E2 3 Ao C1 D1 E2 4 C0 DO EO DB to find the emergent rules present in the other Discretisation of the event logs from the first subject transformed the log data into two databases of 287 and 375 transactions from the first and second week respectively The event logs from the second subject were discretised into databases of 440 transactions from the first week of data and 319 transactions from the second A Observations on the Working Professional Data Set Intertransaction association rules from the first subject were mined using a raw minimum support threshold of a  8 for both weeks of data This support level was chosen to balance the quality and the quantity of the discovered associations providing us with an ample number of rules for analysis while remaining resistant to noise Association rules discovered in DBN were classified emergent if a minimum growth of 6  5 was measured 1 Week One Mining the first week of data lead to the discovery of 101 emergent intertransaction associations from 1,808 investigated rules Examining the context of each rule revealed the existence of four distinct groups of associations The first group was found to relate to a flurry of kitchen activity on the third day of the event logs Here the subject appears to be triggering the sensors on a variety of kitchen appliances and furniture over an unusually long period behaviour that results in significant growth in kitchen related associations Manual examination of the emergent rules and the log data did not however reveal any discernible behavioural trends aside from the unusual length of the activity and the frequency of the events therein The second set of rules highlight significant growth in kitchen door associated events Inspection of the event logs reveals repeated opening and closing of the door on day four of the data Although it is possible that these readings were caused by the subject frequently entering and leaving the kitchen we believe that the length of the activity and the regularity with which the readings occur suggests that a momentary glitch with the sensor has been detected Analysis of the emergent rules from the third group shows that is is unusual to observe the medicine cabinet and the foyer door being opened or closed in adjacent transactions This discovery is attributed to insufficient historical data 345 IN TRANSACTIONS RETRIEVED FROM THE HISTORICAL DATABASE 


as was previously discovered in Section 4-A 1 The next group of emergent rules highlight an unexpected behaviour prevalent on the first and sixth day We see from the log data that the bathroom door is frequently opened and closed over a fifteen minute interval on these days yet the historical data suggests that the bathroom door is normally left open or shut for periods of time outside the span of the intertransaction sliding window A bevy of emergent rules covering significant growth in the relationships among a variety of objects in the kitchen make up the final set Emergent rules highlight growth between OF THE INTERTRANSACTION RUILES DISCOVERED FROM THE EXTENDED TABLE 5 SUMMARY ITEMS IN TABLE 4 discretisation of the event logs resulted in the foyer door and the medicine cabinet events being predominately grouped into adjacent intervals in the first week and into single transactions in the second We see from the event logs that it is quite normal in both weeks of data for the subject to walk through the foyer door shortly before opening the medicine cabinet The last set of emergent rules features the subject both flushing the toilet and using the bathroom medicine cabinet in a single interval These two events occur normally one or two intervals apart in the historical data set but not in the same transaction This behaviour does not appear to be due to any unusual circumstances and again suggests that a larger historical data set is required 2 Week Two Only 46 of the 2,437 intertransaction associations tested from the second week were identified as emergent Inspection of these rules again revealed four groups of contextually related associations The first group is a set of two single events revealing that the bathroom door is being opened and shut significantly more often in the second week than in the first This innocuous new behaviour is evident over several days of data and is confirmed through manual inspection of the event logs Twenty four rules associating use of the microwave with use of the fridge the freezer and the kitchen cabinet within a single transaction period make up the second group of associations The historical data shows that while we can expect some of these kitchen based events to occur within a single interval the use of the microwave in addition to two or more of these events all within a single transaction is unusual Examination of the event logs showed that meal preparations appear to be a more involved process in the second week than in the first The third set of emergent rules suggest that it is abnormal for the hot and cold water faucets in the bathroom to be turned both on and off in adjacent intervals It appears that in the first week the hot and cold water is used in shorter sessions and that these events normally occur within a single transaction The event logs suggest that the subject does appear to be spending more time in the bathroom and is opening the water faucets more frequently than in the first week It remains conceivable however that this phenomenon is caused by a sensor aberration and not a change in behaviour Although the rules in the final set of emergent associations highlight no apparent abnormal behaviour they do document significant growth in the number of times the bedroom jewellery box is opened and the bedroom light switch is activated in contiguous transactions B Observations on the Retiree Data Set The minimum support threshold for mining the first week of data was reduced to a use of the microwave and the garbage disposal unit the repeated opening and closing of the kitchen door and repeated access to the fridge and microwave We found it difficult to locate any anomalous behaviour in the log files as all these events also appear in close proximity in the second week This suggests that we do not have sufficient historical data to account for all the combinations of intervals and events found here 2 Week Two The presence of four distinct groups of associations were once again identified amongst the 23 emergent associations discovered from the 758 that were tested Two single events from which we learn that the subject accesses their study drawer more frequently in the second week than in the first makes up the first group of emergent associations Inspection of the logs confirms this find the study 346  6 in order to provide us with a sufficient number of rules for analysis not otherwise available at higher support levels The support level for the second week was again set to a  8 and a minimum growth measurement of 6  5 was required for both weeks I Week One Of the 1,061 intertransaction associations tested 72 were classified emergent The emergent rules were again grouped into sets of related associations The first of these groups reveal that the subject is watching more television in the first week than in the second The log files confirm that interaction with the TV is common in the first week yet it is rarely seen in the second A second group of associations highlight an anomaly centered around the repeated opening and closing of the kitchen door one and two intervals after it had previously been opened or closed Delving into the event logs reveals a considerable increase in the number of times the door is opened in this week relative to the historical data set It appears that the subject is carrying out activities that require frequent access to the kitchen over several days of data and that this is not due to a sensor malfunction 


drawer being opened and closed in seven transactions in week two but only twice in week one The rules in the second group imply abnormal behaviour in the form of the shower faucet being repeatedly turned on and off taking place on the first day of this week Although it is possible that these rules were found due to some new behaviour the frequency and regularity of the readings over a period of fifteen minutes suggests the possibility that they were the result of an error with the sensors The next unusual behaviour is a repeated toggling of the light switch in the butler's pantry on day seven The emergent rules show that the light switch in the butler's pantry is being turned on for several minutes and then turned off again in a cycle that is repeated several times every few minutes The expected behaviour associated with the butler's pantry is to see the light switch activated for several minutes up to an hour at a time with longer periods of time passing before the light is turned on again A single rule in this group highlights frequent use of the microwave twenty five to thirty minutes after the cabinet inside the butler's pantry has been accessed It is difficult to verify whether these patterns are caused by a new behaviour or not without querying the subject The final emergent rules present five new associations related to the use of the kitchen cabinet The first three of these rules show a new association between the cabinet and the microwave the latter of which is frequently being opened and closed twenty five to thirty five minutes after the cabinet has been accessed The last two rules show the closing of the cabinet door the use of the cold water faucet and the opening and closing of the fridge all within a single transaction is an unexpected but frequent occurrence in the second week None of these rules suggest a new behaviour that we need to be concerned about 5 CONCLUSION This work has introduced a method for the mining of emergent intertransaction association rules and demonstrated their application through the discovery of behavioural changes and sensor aberrations present in the state-change sensor event logs from the homes of two volunteer subjects Experimental results show that emergent associations are able to be applied to the discovery of short term abnormalities and to detect changes that occur in a subject's behavioural patterns over a span of several days Both intratransaction and intertransaction anomalies were detected attesting to the benefit of incorporating temporal associative relationships into the mining process 2 E D Mynatt I Essa W Rogers Increasing the opportunities for aging in place In Proc 2000 Conf Universal Usability Arlington Virginia USA 2000 pp 65-71 3 H Lu L Feng J Han Beyond intra-transaction association analysis mining multi-dimensional inter-transaction association rules In ACM Trans Information Systems Vol 18 No 4 2000 pp 423-454 4 R Agrawal T Imielinski A Swami Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases In Proc ACM-SIGMOD 1993 Int'l Conf Management of Data Washington District of Columbia USA May 1993 pp 207-216 5 E M Tapia Activity Recognition in the Home Setting Using Simple and Ubiquitous Sensors Masters thesis Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2003 6 E M Tapia S S Intille K Larson Activity recognition in the home using simple and ubiquitous sensors In Int'l Conf Pervasive Computing Vol 3001 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2004 pp 158-175 7 G Dong J Li X Zhang Discovering jumping emerging patterns and experiments on real datasets In Int'l Database Conf Heterogeneous and Internet Databases Hong Kong China 1999 pp 155-168 8 G Dong J Li Efficient mining of emerging patterns discovering trends and differences In Int'l Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining San Diego California USA 1999 pp 43-52 9 W Lee S J Stolfo K W Mok Adaptive intrusion detection a data mining approach In Artificial Intelligence Review Vol 14 No 6 2000 pp 533-567 10 H Mannila H Toivonen A I Verkamo Discovering frequent episodes in sequences In Proc Int'l Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Montrdal Canada 1995 pp 210-215 11 A Silberschatz A Tuzhilin What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems In IEEE Trans Knowledge and Data Engineering Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 970-974 12 B Padmanabhan A Tuzhilin A belief-driven method for discovering unexpected patterns In Int'l Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mininlg New York City New York USA August 1998 pp 94-100 13 B Padmanabhan A Tuzhilin Unexpectedness as a measure of interestingness in knowledge discovery In Decision Support Systems Vol 27 No 3 1999 pp 303-318 14 A K H Tung H Lu J Han L Feng Efficient mining of intertransaction association rules In IEEE Trans Knowledge and Data Enigineering Vol 15 No 1 2003 pp 43-56 15 S Luihr G West S Venkatesh An extended frequent pattern tree for intertransaction association rule mining Technical Report 2005/1 Department of Computing Curtin University of Technology 2005 16 J Han J Pei Y Yin Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation In ACM SIGMOD Int'l Conf Management of Data Dallas Texas USA May 2000 pp 1-12 17 J Han J Pei Y Yin R Mao Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation a frequent-pattern tree approach In Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Vol 8 No 1 2004 pp 53-87 18 R Srikant Q Vu R Agrawal Mining association rules with item constraints In Int'l Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Minin1g Newport Beach California USA August 1997 pp 67-73 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors wish to thank Emmanuel Munguia Tapia Stephen Intille and Kent Larson for the real world data used in this work REFERENCES 1 United Nations World population ageinig 1950-2050 United Nations Publications New York 2002 347 


9. else 10 Null 11. add into   12. endfor 13. add   into 14. endfor 4.2. Phase II: Generating the Quantitative Association Rules After generating the new database   describing the change of each attribute, we try to discovery the frequent itemsets. Much of the data in   are continuous but not discrete. Therefore, we cannot use ordinary method [3 such as Apriori algorithm, to generate frequent itemsets. We should use the algorithm mentioned in [14] to generate the rules. The following issues should be clari?ed before using the algorithm 1 ments of the weather need different partition rules. Following is the detail of the rule Temperature: The partition of temperature difference would be  \(-  , -20 0 0, 5], \(5, 10], \(10, 15], \(15 Humidity: The partition of humidity difference is the same as that of temperature Dew Point: Dew point is related to temperature. Therefore they are using the same partition Wind Speed: The partition of wind-speed difference is as follows:  \(-  , -40 0 0, 5], \(5, 10], \(10, 20], \(20, 40], \(40 Wind Direction: The partition of wind-direction is as follows:  \(0,6], \(6, 12], \(12, 18], \(18, 24], \(24, 30], \(30 36 Pressure: Its partition is:  \(-  , -0.8 0.4  0.2, 0.4], \(0.4, 0.6 0.6, 0.8], \(0.8 Visibility: Its partition is:  \(-  , -4 2, -1  1, 2], \(2, 3], \(3, 4], \(4 Precipitation:Use the same partition as that of pressure 2 


tion should be set in proportion to the appearance probability within a whole year 4.3. Phase III: Generating the Dynamic Interdimension Association Rules After Phase II, we discover some quantitative association rules. At this time we introduce our prede?ned predicates into these rules to generate the dynamic interdimension association rules. Since many of the items consisting of the rules are ranges, we can either still use this range or the mean value of the range to express those items. The rules generated include the associations of all of the weather condition, not only those severe conditions. The ?nal phase of this algorithm needs more interaction between the algorithm and the end-user so that the discovery may get a much better result 5. Experience with a real-life dataset We assessed the correctness and effectiveness of our algorithm by experimenting with a real-life dataset. The data were weather record data of Dallas City from April 2002 to June 2002 [1]. The data had ten attributes which include Proceedings of the 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference \(COMPSAC’04 0730-3157/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE eight quantitative attributes and two categorical attributes There were 1092 records in the dataset 5.1. Experiment Design The datasets getting from Weather Underground and NCDC are raw data.The most distinct weather changes which happen in all spring and the early summer according to Dallas City. Therefore choosing this part of data can clearly re?ect the relation between the meteorological variables and the weather conditions. The ?rst step of our experiment is to rearrange the dataset. The ?rst phase of our algorithm is to build a new database re?ecting the changing tendency of the meteorological variables. After this phase determing the number of partitions for each quantitative attribute and how to partition should be accomplished. In the second phase of our algorithm, we use the algorithm in [14 to generate the frequent itemsets. The algorithm used to generate association rules is different to the traditional algorithm in [3]. In our algorithm we only generate rule whose right-hand-side only contains the DYSW attribute. The ?nal phase will use our prede?ned predicates to generate the dynamic interdimension association rules 5.2. Result Evaluation Evaluating the usefulness of the results from running our algorithm need some special review. However, some rules we get are pretty straightforward. The following rule is generated when we set minsup to 8% and minconf to 20 direction range \(RDIR, 12..18 DPTP, 0..5 


Thunder-Storm [ s = 8%, c = 20 Dallas City is located near Gulf of Mexico which is located in the southeast of the city. When the warm air?ow moves toward northwest, it is moisture-conditioned. After its landing, it will meet some cold air?ow existing in the land. If the warm air?ow is stronger than the cold one, it can still go north and push the cold one back. Along this way, there will be a plenty of precipitation. Now looks back to the geographical position of Dallas City. It’s just on the way of the warm air?ow and the distance between the city and the coast is also not very far. That is why the warm air?ow can bring much precipitation to this city from southeast. When warm air?ow comes, the relative humility will increase which will make the dew point increase 6. Conclusions In this paper, we introduce the problem of mining dynamic interdimension association rules for local-scale severe weather prediction. We ?rst transform the original weather record database into a new database expressing the change tendencies of the measurements of the weather Then we use the algorithm for mining quantitative association rules to generate the result rules in quantitative format Finally, we introduce some predicates to generate the ?nal rules In this paper, we focus on the time-related measurements of weather. In the future, we will incorporate the spacerelated measurements for weather prediction. In addition we will improve our model so that it will ?t for a regional even global weather prediction References 1] Daily surface data. US and some non-US format Documentation, 2002 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. N. Swami. Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. In Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, Washington, D.C., 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proc. 20th Int. Conf. Very LargeData Bases VLDB, pages 487–499. Morgan Kaufmann, 1994 4] P. F. Baldi and S. Brunak. Bioinformatics: The machine learning approach. MIT Press, Cambridge London, 1998 5] C. Elkan. Shared challenges in data mining and computational biology. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics, San Francisco, CA 2001 6] K. A. Emanuel. The role of water in atmospheric dynamics and climate. Meteorology at the Millennium, 2002 7] U. M. Fayyad, S. G. Djorgovski, and N. Weir. Automating the analysis and cataloging of sky surveys. Advances in knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 471–493, 1996 


8] M. Gahegan. Data mining and knowledge discovery in the geographical domain 9] J. R. Holton, J. A. Curry, and J. A. Pyle. Encyclopedia of atmospheric sciences. Academic Press, Boston, 2002 10] Z. Kou, W. W. Cohen, and R. F. Murphy. Extracting information from text and images for location proteomics. In Proceedings of the 3nd ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics, Washington, DC, 2003 11] V. Kumar, M. Steinbach, P. Tan, S. Klooster, C. Potter, and A. Torregrosa. Mining scienti?c data: Discovery of patterns in the global climate system. In Proceedings of the Joint Statistical Meetings, Athens, GA, 2001 12] P. Lynch. Weather forecasting from woolly art to solid science. Meteorology at the Millennium, pages 106–119, 2002 13] T. N. Palmer. Predicting uncertainty in numerical weather forecasts. Meteorology at the Millennium, pages 3–13, 2002 14] R. Srikant and R. Agrawal. Mining quantitative association rules in large relational tables. In Proceedings of the 1996 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pages 1–12, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, 1996 15] A. J. Stevermer. Recent advances and issues in meteorology Oryx Press, London, 2002 16] B. Zupan, E. T. Keravnou, and N. Lavrac. Intelligent Data Analysis in Medicine and Pharmacology. Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1997 Proceedings of the 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference \(COMPSAC’04 0730-3157/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 


variable names mapped by the where keyword to the relation in DataSchema and pv are variable names that appear in the StructureSchema At instantiation time pv is assigned values of the Structure component and dv is mapped to the relation appearing in Data component. The de?nition for the pattern well-formed formula is now straightforward De?nition 14 A pattern formula is of the form fp\(dv 2 where fp \(formula predicate variablesmapped by thewhere keyword to the relation appearing in Data component From the previous de?nitions the semantics of the where keyword become evident: we impose that the variables of the formula will take values from speci?c relations when the formula predicate is employed in queries Example 2 Let us consider the following formulas 1. f\(x x 2. f\(g\(x x In the ?rst formula variable x is mapped to R using the where keyword, thus the formula is well formed. Keep in mind that the formula predicate by itself is just the part f\(x is not well-formed since y is not mapped via where to any relation, or otherwise range restricted 5. Querying the Pattern Warehouse We de?ne queries to be posed over the pattern warehouse and not individually over its data- or patternbase components. Through this approach, we are able to sustain queries traversing from the pattern to the data space and vice-versa. At the same time, the consistency of the results is guaranteed by the pattern-data mapping De?nition 15 Let PW the set of all possible Pattern Warehouses. A query is a function with signature PW ? PW. Given a query q and a pattern warehouse pw = \(DB,PB D?B, P?B q\(pw DB?, PB   P?B? = ?[D?1, ..., D?m], [P?C1:PT1]?. We assume that tr, tp\(tr ? R1 ? tp ? PC1 tr, tp Note that, similarly to the relational case, the result of a query is always a pattern warehouse containing just one relation and one pattern class. It is also important to point out that, in practice, even if a query always involve both the data and pattern space, operations over patterns are executed in isolation, locally at the PBMS. The reference to the underlying data is activated only on-demand \(whenever the user speci?cally requests so stored intermediate mappings or the formula approximation 5.1. Query operators In this section we introduce query operators that allow basic queries over the the PW . Assuming that DB denotes the set of all possible database instances and PB the set of all possible pattern bases, we consider the following groups of operators  Database operators: they can be applied locally to the DBMS. op : DB ? DB. We denote the set of database operators with OD  Pattern base operators: they can be applied locally to the PBMS. op : PB ? PB. We denote the set of database operators with OP  Cross-over database operators: they involve evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the result is a database. op : DB  PB ? DB. We denote the set of database operators with OCD  Cross-over pattern base operators: they involve evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the 


evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the result is a pattern base. op : DB  PB ? PB. We denote the set of database operators with OCP In the following, we present examples of the last three classes of operators \(database operators coincide with usual relational operators operators, we introduce some examples of predicates de?ned over patterns Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE 5.1.1. Pattern predicates We identify two main classes of atomic predicates: predicates over patterns and predicates over pattern components. From those atomic predicates we can then construct complex predicates. In the following, we denote pattern components by using the dot notation. For example, the measure component of a pattern p is denoted by p.Measure Predicates over pattern components. They check properties of speci?c pattern components. Let p1 and p2 be two patterns, possibly selected by some queries. The general form of a predicate over pattern components is t1?t2, where t1 and t2 are path expressions that must de?ne components of patterns p1 and p2, of compatible type and ? must be an operator, de?ned for the type of t1 and t2. For example, if t1 and t2 are integer expressions, then ? can be a disequality operator e.g. one of &lt;,&gt cases  If t1 and t2 are pattern data for patterns p1 and p2, then ? ? {=,?}. t1 = t2 is true if and only if x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2 and t1 ? t2 is true if and only if ?x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2  If t1 and t2 are pattern formulas for patterns p1 a n d  p 2   t h e n             t 1    t 2  i s  t r u e  i f  a n d o n l y  i f  t 1    t 2  a n d  t 1    t 2  i s  t r u e  i f  a n d  o n l y  i f  t 1 logically implies t2 Predicates over patterns. We consider the following set of predicates  Identity if they have the same PID, i.e. p1.P ID = p2.P ID  Shallow equality \(=s are shallow equal if their corresponding components \(except for the PID component i.e. p1.Structure = p2.Structure, p1.Source p2.Source, p1.Measure = p2.Measure, and p1.formula = p2.formula. Note that, to check the equality for each component pair, the basic equality operator for the speci?c component type is used  Deep equality \(=d deep equal if their corresponding data are identical, i.e., ?x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2   S u b s u m p t i o n       A  p a t t e r n  p 1  s u b s u m e s  a  p a t t e r n  p 2   p 1    p 2   i f  t h e y  h a v e  t h e  s a m e  s t r u c ture but p2 represents a smaller set of raw data i.e. p1.Structure = p2.Structure, p1.Source p 2  S o u r c e  a n d  p 1  f o r m u l a    p 2  f o r m u l a  Complex predicates. They are de?ned by applying usual logical connectives to atomic predicates. Thus, if F1 and F2 are predicates, then F1 ? F2,F1 ? F2  F1 are predicates. We make a closed world assumption, thus the calculation of  F is always ?nite 5.1.2. Pattern base operators OP In this subsection, we introduce several operators de?ned over patterns. Some of them, like set-based operators, renaming and selection are quite close to their relational counterparts; nevertheless, some others, like join and projection have signi?cant di?erences Set-based operators. Since classes are sets, usual operators such as union, di?erence and intersection are de 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


