 An assessment of venues providing public access to ICT: a tale of 25 countries  Christopher Coward  Ricardo Gomez  Rucha Ambikar Center for Information & Society Center for Information & Society Center for Information & Society University of Washington  University of Washington University of Washington ccoward@u.washington.edu   rgomez@u.washington.edu  
rucha@u.washington.edu     Abstract  This paper is based on a comparative study of venues that provide public access to information and communication technologies in 25 countries. We study how diverse people can and do access and use ICT and what factors influence availability at these venues. Our aim, through such an analysis is first to map what is available through the public access venues in these countries and second to arrive at policy recommendations to increase public access in these countries   1. Introduction  Providing public access to information and communication technologies \(ICT\ has long been seen as an important solution to the issues of the 
digital divide. Early interventions aiming to lessen the gap between the digital haves and have-nots prioritized access to information through digital technologies, resulting in policy where providing computers was seen as the single most important factor to lessen the digital divide. This accessoriented approach, has however, been criticized following the failure of early interventions that focused solely on providing access to computers and the internet and associated ICT. \(DiMaggio, 2004 Hargittai, 2003, Warschauer, 2003\The 
conceptualization of the digital divide itself has shifted in recent years, taking into cognizance other factors that influence the access and use of information and communication technologies including different aspects of socio-economic development, environmental and political factors Bridges.org, 2005; Wilson III, 2006\r study was aimed at examining this range of social, economic political, environmental factors influencing the access and use of ICT This study maps the landscape of public access in 
our sample of 25 countries with developing economies across the world. The study was conceived as a collaborative project with local research teams in each of the sample countries contributing to the process of formulating the research design, designing research questions that allowed us to explore locally relevant issues and participating in an iterative process of data collection and analysis that enriched our understanding of the field. The study focuses on venues providing public access to information and communication 
particularly through the use of digital ICT. Here we use the term public access to refer to institutional locations that offer access to information, with or without the use of ICT and that are open to the public without restrictions that exclude some over others Schools and academic institutions that restrict access to their libraries to studen ts or their respective staff populations alone were not considered as public access venues for this study We prioritized a comparative study of three basic 
kinds of public access venues public libraries telecentres and cybercafés. Earlier studies have engaged in analyzing either telecentres or public libraries individually \(Gomez and Reilly, 2001 Whyte and Whyte, 2000; Selwyn, 2002; Hull, 2003 Our study is unique in that it engages a comparative analysis of public libraries; and telecentres and cybercafés mapping the breadth of venues that provide public access to ICT. Through such analysis we aim to arrive at policy recommendations to 
increase public access to ICT in a manner that is most beneficial to those currently underserved This research study is an 18-month process ending December 2008. This paper is based on preliminary results and the second phase of research is underway at the time of the writing of this paper The analysis and recommendations we present here are preliminary but provide insight into the landscape Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 of public access to ICT in these 25 countries nevertheless  2. Sample country and venue selection  The sample countries for the study were chosen from countries that are economically on the lower-to middle scale globally. Countries at the poor end of the economic spectrum as well as poor and disadvantaged communities in the more affluent countries are subject of other studies that are planned or currently underway at our research center in the University of Washington \(UW To arrive at our sample size of 25 countries, we first used the gross national per capita income, the Human Development Index as well as the population of countries \(above 1 million and below 1 billion\ to narrow down our choices to 70 countries. We then considered factors such as freedom of press, physical security of researchers, to arrive at 54 countries in which independent research could be conducted. The next stage of sample selection involved the creation of two indices that indicated the ICT needs and readiness of each country to select a further 30 countries The needs index was created using three indicators inequality, ICT usage and ICT cost. We developed proxy indicators for each of these three factors. To gauge inequality we used income inequality 1 as a proxy to represent geographic ethnic, gender inequalities. Inequality in these cases suggested greater potential need for public access to ICT. We used Internet users per capita 2 to represent ICT usage In this case, lower use of the Internet indicated a greater need for public access venues ICT cost was represented by understanding the lowest broadband cost as a percentage of monthly income 3 The higher cost of broadband suggested a greater need for public access The readiness index rested on three factors as well politics, skills and ICT infrastructure. We used secondary data to gather information about government policies prioritizing ICT \(both present and future\ent politics in this index. Greater government and regulatory support for ICT indicated a higher level of ICT readiness The skills factor considered literacy \(where school enrollment 4 was used as a proxy indicator\her literacy levels   1  Gini index \(2006\ from United Nations Development program 2 Data from CIA World Factbook \(2007 3 Data from International Telecommunications Union s World Information Society Report \(2006 4 International Telecommunication Union opportunity skills index 2007 presumably indicate a higher readiness level for ICT usage To measure ICT infrastructure we used the density of phones, mobiles and Internet bandwidth 5  as a proxy indicator The final selection of 25 countries was based on four additional criteria regional representation number of public libraries per country, availability of qualified local research partners and tipping factors such as movements to increase public access, known plans for future infrastructure development. Local researchers were selected through an iterative process which included a call for expressions of interest which generated 220 responses from researchers around the world. We then circulated a request for qualifications resulting in over 50 proposals to conduct local research in partnership with UW. A final group of 19 local qualified research teams \(with some teams conducting research in more than one country\ were selected to conduct this study which was coordinated by our research team at the UW Based on all these criteria, we arrived at the following sample of 25 countries                      Figure 1 Needs and Readiness of public access to ICT  The cumulative scores assigned to each country using the factors of inequality, ICT usage, ICT cost politics, ICT infrastructure and skills allowed us to divide the twenty five countries into different tiers of high, medium and low. These needs and readiness indices are based on secondary data and provide an early indication of what the best opportunities for policy interventions with a view to increasing public access to ICT may be. These indices also offer a base   5 International Telecommunication Union opportunity network index \(2007  Needs Readiness Needs Higher and Medium Lower Readiness Higher and Medium Algeria Brazil Colombia Dominican Republic Georgia Kazakhstan Peru Philippines South Africa Sri Lanka Argentina Costa Rica Egypt Malaysia Moldova Mongolia Turkey Lower Bangladesh Ecuador Honduras Namibia Nepal Uganda Indonesia Kyrgyzstan  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 for comparison with the results of the comparative analysis at the end of this study  3. Analytic framework and methodology the Integrated Iterative Approach \(IIA   This research study was designed as a participatory process. We committed to approaching the process of research design and implementation in multiple steps; with input from multiple stakeholders to ensure that all key categories and dimensions of analysis were addressed and to make sure that the most meaningful questions were asked in the most meaningful way during the research. Our aim through this process has been to arrive at findings that are useful, credible, dependable and trustworthy Denzin & Lincoln, 2005; Lincoln, 1995; Villiers 2005\ormalized our approach to research in the Integrated Iterative Approach IIA\he IIA emphasizes a multi-disciplinary approach to any research study and presents two important guidelines to ensure that the research is meaningful and useful  1\n integrated approach where each stakeholder is represented and \(2\An iterative process of research design, implementation and analysis that regularly revisits the research questions, findings and other insights to identify trends and patterns as they emerge in the research process The selection of our sample countries embodied the first iterative step in this research as we utilized several criteria to arrive at our sample of 25 countries. Our next step was to recruit expert local research partners in all our sample countries and to undertake a series of research planning workshops The Real Access/ Real Impact \(RA/RI\ramework was chosen as a starting point for the research design during these workshops. Developed by Bridges.org in South Africa, this framework proposes a list of twelve social, economic, political, educational cultural and environmental factors that influence public access  While the RA/RI framework provided a large list of factors influencing access and use of ICT, we critiqued the static nature of this list.  Through the IIA approach we determined that a more dynamic approach was needed to measure these factors  examining historical factors as well as future implications of public access to ICT. Another important point of consideration was also the unidirectional approach to information and communication within the RA/RI framework. In our study, we wished to examine not only what was provided by different venues in terms of ICT, but also the use and appropriation of technologies by the people which reflected their particular information and communication needs. With an intention of mapping unintended uses of technology, we added the category of social appropriation of technology to our list of factors influencing public access and use of ICT. The regional and international environment as an influencing factor was added to our list based on the advice of our research partners. We divided these factors into three larger themes  Equitable Access Human Capacity & Relevance and Enabling Environment or Access, Capacity and Environment in short\e at this final list of factors Access   Physical access to technology   Appropriateness of technology   Affordability of technology & technology use Capacity   Human capacity and training   Locally relevant content, applications and services   Integration into daily routine   Social appropriation of technology Environment    Socio-cultural factors   Local and macro-economic environment   Political will & public support   Legal& regulatory framework   Regional & international environment   These fourteen factors formed the basis of a research design that was adapted to local contexts. Field research was divided into two phases of research, to allow for preliminary results and analysis to inform the next phase of research. Preliminary analysis of Phase I research findings was undertaken with a diverse group of researchers comprised of the lead researchers, faculty members, representatives of the donors supporting this study. While the IIA informed our research design, to allow for new themes to emerge, the preliminary analysis was conducted in a bottoms-up approach. Such an approach provided us with insight in the three larger themes of analysis set out by the IIA \(Access, Capacity and Environment At the same time, we gathered exciting new insight into the field when we received information about things we had not asked for. We invited responses to our preliminary analysis based from our research partners in 24 countries. What we present next is based on our common analysis of the data gathered in Phase I and has informed research design in Phase II which is currently underway  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 4. Preliminary Findings: Regional Themes  Our preliminary results reflect the diversity of venues that offer public access to information and communication technologies. We received preliminary figures that estimated the number of public libraries, telecentres and cybercafés; along with factors influencing their access and use. We present certain regional themes within the sample countries   4.1 Eastern Europe and Eurasia  The countries of Eastern Europe and Eurasia in our sample \(Georgia, Moldova, Kyrgyzstan, and Kazakhstan\ shared a common history as part of the former Soviet Union. With particular reference to public libraries in these countries, remnants of the old Soviet administration has left a cultural legacy of trust in public libraries. The population of Georgia and Kyrgyzstan reported that while the people valued public libraries, funding streams had dried up over the last sixteen years, leaving outdated information in the libraries. At the present libraries are considered irrelevant due to this lack of current information leading to lessened value of public libraries as such As a cyclical effect of this lessened value placed on public libraries, the prospects of future funding appear bleak  4.2 Latin America  The countries from Latin America in our sample Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras and Peru\lected many elements of a shared cultural heritage, including common languages popular in the region. Latin America is home to regional organizations that are engaged in developing public access venues. Economies of scale in the region may also make planning policy interventions easier, although current lack of infrastructure and political instability could pose roadblocks in such policy interventions One of the most resounding findings in this region has been the enormous popularity of cybercafés. Honduras and Peru reported that more than half of all ICT usage in these countries takes place at cybercafés. The enormous and steadily increasing popularity of mobile phones is also being seen as rendering public access to information easier In general, public libraries did not enjoy much popular patronage but were seen as places for academicians  4.3 South Asia  Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka were the three countries from South Asia that were included in our sample. As expected, a common observation among these three countries was that a larger proportion of the countries resources were earmarked for fulfilling the basic needs of their populations. Common challenges in the three countries included lack or shortage of infrastructure including electricity, roads availability of network cables providing internet access, etc. The geography of all three countries posed significant barriers to an easy increase in public access to ICT; be it the mountainous terrain of Nepal, the tsunami affected regions of Sri Lanka or the seasonal flooding in Bangladesh. On the positive sides, governments of all three countries are reported to be in favor of proliferating ICT with measures such as encouraging foreign investment in this area starting to provide inro ads in this area  5. Understanding Access, Capacity and Environment  We based the research design for this study on the categories of Access, Capacity and Environment While each country research team adapted these categories of questions to fit their local context, our preliminary findings have validated the value of such an organizational scheme. We present the preliminary findings in each category here and expect Phase II to fully develop these research themes  5.1 Equitable Access  The category of access studied physical access to technology, appropriateness of technology and affordability of technology & technology use. Let us consider each of these factors in order  As expected, the geography of a nation influenced physical access to ICT. One of the most common reports we received was the concentration of venues providing public access to ICT around the capital city of the country. For example, while access to ICT is widely accessible in Kathmandu, Tbilisi, and Cairo, it is much less accessible in the rural areas outside the capitals of Nepal, Georgia, and Egypt. This theme of uneven distribution of venues was echoed in the urban vs. rural areas. In many countries a lack of general infrastructural support has prevented proliferation of ICT, in some unique cases such as in Namibia, communities have harnessed solar power and use diesel generators to power wireless Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 connectivity in schools  The appropriateness of technology was reported to be a common concern by our research partners. In countries such as Ecuador, Georgia, Peru, South Africa and Sri Lanka, we received strong indications that lack of content in local languages, as well as lack of locally relevant content prohibits users from accruing the benefits provided by public access to ICT  The cost of various venue types was cited by numerous researchers as prohibitive for the many populations in obtaining access to information. In addition to the fee-for-service costs, a common thread across countries such as Peru, Egypt and Algeria was the inclusion of costs other than ICT usage costs the high cost of transportation to get to the venues, and the likelihood of poorer communities to be working during the regular hours of operation as was reported in the case of public libraries in Egypt. On a positive note, countries such as Bangladesh, Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Moldova reported expectations of lower costs of ICT usage in the near future  5.2 Human Capacity and Relevance  The category of capacity examined human capacity & training, locally relevant content applications and services, the integration into daily routines, trust in technology and social appropriation of the technology More than half of the countries included in our sample reported a lack of trained knowledge workers  who would help the public access and use ICT Kazakhstan, for example reported that even with a high literacy rate in the country \(99.5%\nical literacy lagged far behind due to lack of trained teachers in the area. Countries such as Moldova also reported the phenomenon of brain drain where qualified staff was leaving rural areas for urban centres, leaving rural patrons without recourse to help in ICT usage Lack of locally relevant content was nearunanimously reported to be a barrier to ICT access and use. In countries such as Brazil, Costa Rica Georgia, Sri Lanka and South Africa, our researchers reported a shortage of content in local languages, as well as limited access to current information. Brazil in particular, noted that the obscurity of official information provided renders access to current local information more important Integration into daily routines is critically tied to accessibility. Transportation issues have caused difficulty in accessing venues providing ICT in Peru Honduras researchers reported that the inability to communicate with loved ones who had emigrated overseas produced significant information gaps Trust in technology is necessary if increasing public access to ICT is to benefit those currently underserved. Ecuador reported that with government restrictions limiting people s access and use of technology, ICT was not seen as a valuable resource A strong theme that emerged through our findings was people s inability to see the benefits of information and ICT in their daily lives. In countries such as Costa Rica, Egypt, Moldova, Nepal and Sri Lanka, there was a reported low awareness of the benefits of technology and a lack of recognition of any information gap Social appropriation of technology was added to our matrix of factors affecting use and access of ICT following the need to understand unintended use of technologies that are provided at public access venues. In countries such as Sri Lanka, we found a strong criticism of content provided that was seen as presenting information as well as technology through a Western bias. Researchers there have reported people s wishes to engage in content production that presents information with a differing view-point. In countries in Latin America, we also received reports of community organizations being formed in public access venues that champion local issues, not directly related to ICT. The public access and use of ICT in such instances has promoted civic engagement. These themes of social appropriation are being further investigated in Phase II of research  5.3 Enabling Environment  The category of environment addressed factors such as socio-cultural factors, local and macroeconomic environment, political will and support legal and regulatory framework, as well as the regional and international environment As can be expected traditional socio-cultural inequalities such as class, gender, minority status, etc severely affected access and use of ICT, along with location in urban or rural areas. In general, gender was reported to be a barrier to accessing venues providing ICT in countries such as Algeria, Egypt Turkey, and Nepal, where socio-cultural factors disadvantaged women in the social sphere. However an exception regarding public libraries was reported in Egypt, where libraries were considered safe public places for women to occupy The historical culture of information was reported by several researchers as playing an important role in access to information. The governments of Turkey and Egypt, it was reported did not freely provide information to the public. This Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 trend has continued to the prese n government agencies have been sl o information that is easily accessible a people s lives Local and macro economic f a influenced public access to inf o communication through ICT. Fac t poverty, conflict, migration, and u necessarily divert government res o fulfillment of basic needs, which w a result in a lower prioritization of p u ICT. This was particularly true i n countries such as Honduras and Nepal to information and ICT thus suffered a s competition for scarce government re s In general, we observed increasin g and political support for public acces s however, was not always formalized i n regulatory framework, creating a mis m aspiration and reality  in the countr y reported a lack of follow throug h government initiatives due to changes in some Latin American countries. In changes in government were attribute d war. In Philippines we received rep o p ublic access and use of ICT is gr o especially through the use of mobi l severe lack of political support in t h created significant barriers In the cases of Bangladesh and S government created roadblocks in the i m of policy due to its legal and regulato For example, wi-fi services require l i Sri Lanka laws, creating what wa unnecessary delays; while netwo r Bangladesh were owned by a telecommunication monopoly, ma k impossible to argue for lower ICT cost s In Latin America we have recei v initiatives that have emerged out of international environment that suppo r of public access to ICT. Investment b y agencies in the region in the field of I C cited as a common element. This is c investigated in greater detail  5.4 Comparative rankings: Acc e and Environment \(ACE rankings  In our process of analyzing t h findings, we assigned a score of high m to each category of access, capacity a n reported for each country; and fina l single score that represented the combi three factors. These groupings of l n t day, where o w to provide a nd relevant to a ctors heavily o rmation and t ors such as u nemployment o urces to the a s reported to u blic access to n the case of Public access s a result of the s ources  g  political will s to ICT. This n the legal and m atch between y Researchers h on planned in governmen t  several cases d to conflict or o rts that while o wing rapidly l e phones the h e country has S ri Lanka, the m plementation o ry framework  i censing under s reported as r k cables in government k ing it near s  v ed reports of regional and r ts the increase y foreign donor C T is also being c urrently being e ss, Capacity  h e preliminary m edium or low n d environment l ly assigned a nation of these ower barriers medium barriers and stronger b a other countries in the sample an d One of the surprising insights th r is the similarities in barriers and countries, regardless of geograph i These low, medium and h i understanding of the opportuni widespread and meaningful pub l these countries. We expect to understanding of this typology o f on the findings of the next p hase o We present this comparativ e Dominican Republic, Malaysia a n represented below due to the i n information we have received so    Combined Access, Capaci Environment ranking s based on preliminary fin d  Low barriers B r Cost a E g Sout h Sri L Tu r  Medium barriers  Al g Arg e Col o Ec u Ge o Kyr g P e Phili p Ug a Stronger barriers Ban g Ho n Mo n Na m N e Kaza Mo l Figure 2 Comparative A C The creation of this combine d capacity and environment has further insight into the realities ICT in our sample countries W that in roughly two-third of t h readiness indices were borne p reliminary findings, there we elements to our findings. Philip p the needs-readiness indices was terms of the possible success o f The low score that it recei v category, however, moved it to t the ACE rankings. The nee d a rriers are relative to d not absolute scores r ough such grouping opportunities across i c location gh represent a new ties to foster more l ic access to ICT in further enrich our f public access based o f research e chart below. \(N.B n d Indonesia are not n complete nature of far t y s  d ings r azil a Rica g ypt h Africa L anka r ke y   g eria e ntina o mbia u ado r  o rgia g yzsta n  e ru p pines a nda g lades h  n duras n golia m ibia e pal k hsta n  l dova C E rankings d matrix of access provided us with of public access to W hile we have noted h e cases, the needout through our re some surprising p ines, as we noted in significantly high in f ICT interventions ed in environment t he medium range in d s-readiness indices Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 ranked Egypt in a lower section than the ACE rankings, an effect of the championship of the First Lady of Egypt, who is dedicated to increasing public access to ICT. Colombia and Peru which ranked high in the needs-readiness indices were scored lower on the ACE rankings due to conspicuously uneven distribution of resources and infrastructure in urban and rural areas 6. Emerging Insights Our preliminary findings have provided us with some interesting new insights, grouped around the following four themes 6.1 Collaboration Opportunities: Venues  Our research points to the need for better and effective collaboration among existing venues as the most promising opportunity for future intervention One of the strongest themes that emerged was the recommendation of better collaboration between venues already providing access to ICT - whether they are between public libraries and community libraries \(as was the case in Argentina and Nepal between various government initiatives providing similar services, such as in Sri Lanka. Most country research teams also recommended collaboration between different types of libraries and telecentres and cybercafés as the policy that would have most impact, particularly in the case of South Africa and Peru  6.2 Shifting Media Landscape: Outside of Venues  Beyond focusing on venues preliminary findings shed light on a variety of new experiences and tools that are being explored and used in different contexts to meet information needs of marginalized communities.  Some key opportunities in this field point to community radio in Nepal and Uganda, the use of instant messaging in Philippines, the use of Wi-Fi hotspots in Peru. Brazil, Colombia, Honduras Peru, Philippines, Turkey among others reported the growing use of mobile phones that replaced the access of ICT in any particular venue  6.3 Cool Factor: Where People Go  Preliminary findings highlight the importance of working to strengthen the venues where people go which are not necessarily the ones we had initially thought.  In understanding where people go or don t go, perceptions may matter more than institutional support, training or services offered. Especially among youth, strengthening places that are perceived as cool and where youth like to hang out may be more effective ways to reaching marginalized communities. Public libraries were seen as cool or relevant in very few places. Egypt reported that public libraries were safe places, but seen primarily as places for children or women a sentiment that was echoed in various degrees across the board. Sri Lanka and Georgia reported a trust in libraries but also that libraries were irrelevant since they provided outdated information  6.4 Legitimate Use: Trivial and Non-Trivial Information  The fourth insight from preliminary findings is related to information needs and services offered.  A discussion on what constitutes trivial and non trivial information and what is acceptable use of public access venues is an important one to engage in. For example, in one country we received information stating that cybercafés were one of the most popular venues for public access to information but that they provided access only to trivial information. Another country team reported that youth wasted computer time by using chat while others who really needed to use computers waited Further research will concentrate on factors that influence this classification of particular uses as legitimate or not   7. Conclusion  Our research study aims to map the landscape of public access to Information and communication technologies and to arrive at policy recommendations for interventions to increase such public access Preliminary findings from our sample of 25 countries have allowed us to identify the range of venues providing public access to ICT, and allow for factors influencing their access and use to emerge. So far, we have identified areas that need further investigation both in terms of verifying actual numbers of venues and services provided at public access venues Interestingly, we have also received indications of the comparative use and value of public libraries telecentres and cybercafés in comparison to each other. Phase II of research will further nuance this understanding. The emerging insights point to areas of policy recommendations and it is our hope to consolidate the current state of knowledge in the field Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 of public access to ICT in order to recommend practical and scalable interventions to increase access and use of ICT particularly for those currently underserved at the end of this process 8. References 1 A l k a li m a t A  a nd W illia m s  K. \(20 01 Soc i a l c a p i t a l  and cyberpower in the African American community: a case study of a community technology center in the dual city In L. Keeble and B. Loader \(eds Community Informatics Shaping Computer-mediated Social Relations  London: Routledge, pp. 177 203 2 Ba rz ila i-Na hon K 2 0 06 G a ps a n d Bits Conceptualizing Measurements for Digital Divide/s  The Information Society: an international journal, 22 5  Bri d g es o rg  2 00 5   Real A c c e ss Real I m p act Cri t e ri a  Electronic Versi   f r o m  http://www.bridges.org/Real_Access  Accessed June 2008 4 Ca s t e lls M 1 99 6 h e Inf o r m a tion A g e  Ec onom y   Society and Culture. Vol. I: The Rise of the Network Society Oxford: Blackwell 5 D e nz in N  L i nc ol n, Y  2 0 05 T h e SA G E  Handbook of Qualitative Research 3rd ed Sage 6 DiMa g g i o P  a n d Ha rg itta i, E  2 00 1 om the Dig ita l Divide to digital inequality: Studying Internet use as penetration increases. Princeton, NJ: Center for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies, University Working Paper 15 7 DiMa g g i o P  Ha rg itta i, E C e le ste  C., a nd Sha f e r S 2004\. Digital inequality: From unequal access to differentiated use. In Social inequality ed. K Neckerman, pp. 355 400. New York: Russell Sage Foundation 8 G  mez, R., & Reilly  K. \(2002\paring approaches: Telecentre evaluation experiences in Asia and Latin America  The International Information & Library Review   34 1\ 22 9 G  m e z  R Ca s a die g o, B 200 2 L e tte r to A unt Ofelia: Seven Proposals for Human Development Using New Information and Communication Technologies Ottawa, Lima, Bogota: IDRC PAN Americas\ ITDG, Raíces Mágicas 10 G  m e z  R Ma rtíne z  J  2 001  h e Inte r ne t Why? and what for Ottawa, San José: IDRC Acceso 11 G  m e z  R O s p ina  A  20 01 T h e L a m p W ithout a  Genie: using the Internet for development without expecting miracles Journal of Development Communication, 12 2 12 G u rste in M 2 0 03 Ef f e c tive use  A c o m m unity  informatics strategy beyond the Digital Divide First Monday, 8 12 13 H e e k s  R. \(2 00 7 pa c t A s s e s s m e nt of IC T 4 D  Projects: A Partial Review of Frameworks  Unpublished manuscript 14 L i nc ol n, Y  S 1 99 5 e r ging Crite ria f o r Qua lity in Qualitative and Interpretive Research  Qualitative Inquiry, 1 3\, 275-289 15  Ma rk J Cor ne bis e J  a n d  W a hl, E. \(1 99 7 Community Technology Centres: Impact on Individual Participants and Their Communities  Newtown, MA: Education Development Centre 16  P e te rs, T e re sa Bridg ing the  Dig ita l Div i de  The Evolving Internet Volume 8, No. 3. November 2003 17 Reich  R 1 9 9 1  T h e  Work of Nations: A Blueprint for the Future London: Simon & Schuster 18  Se lw y n N e il \(200 3 f o r a ll A c c e s s a nd us e of  Public ICT Sites in the UK Information Communication & Society, 6:3, 350 375 19 U N C T A D  2007  P r om otin g liv e lihoo d th ro ug h telecentres In INFORMATION ECONOMY REPORT 2007-2008. Science and technology for development:the new paradigm of ICT pp. 269320 20 U n ite d N a ti ons  2 00 7 P r o m oting liv e lihoo ds thr oug h  telecentres. In UNCTAD secretariat Ed Information economy report 2007-2008. Science and technology for development: the new paradigm of ICT New York and Geneva: United Nations 21  V i l lie rs, M R d 2 0 05 T h re e a pproa c h e s a s pilla rs for interpretive information systems research development research, action research and grounded theory Paper presented at the 2005 annual research conference of the South African institute of computer scientists and information technologists on IT research in developing countries. Available at http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1145675.11 45691 Accessed on June 2008 22 W a r sc ha ue r,M.\(2 00 2 c o n c e p tua liz ing t he Dig ita lDiv i de FirstMonday 7\(7 http://www.firstmonday.dk/issues/issue7 7/warschauer \(accessed 20 May 2008 2 W a rsch au er M   2 00 3  Technology and social inclusion: Rethinking the digital divide  Cambridge, MA: MIT Press 24 W illia m s A  a nd A l ka li m a t, A  2004 A c e ns us of  public computing in Toledo, Ohio in D. Schuler and P. Day \(eds Shaping the Network Society The New Role of Civic Society in Cyberspace  Cambridge, MA: MIT Press 25 W ills M 1 9 99 idg i ng t h e dig ita l div i de  Adults Learning 11\(4 11 26 W ilso n E  J. III 2 00 6 Why we need a negotiation model to explain Internet diffusion Access to Knowledge Conference, Yale University, New Heaven, CT 27  Wilson, M. \(2003\nderstanding the International ICT and development discourse: Assumptions and implications The Southern African Journal of Information and Communication No. 3 available at: http://link.wits.ac.za/journal/j0301merridy-fin.pdf Accessed on May 7, 2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 28 W h y t e  A  1999 U n de rs ta nding t h e Role  of  Community Telecentres in Development: A Proposed Approach to Evaluation. In Telecentre Evaluation: A Global Perspective Paper presented at the International Meeting on Telecentre Evaluation 29 W h y t e  A  2000 A s s e ss ing C o m m unity  T e le ce ntre s   Guidelines for Researchers Ottawa: International Development Research Centre Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  8. Impact and Direction FX gives software developers a practical means to determine the full functional behavior of programs FXplorer adds three radically new abilities built on the FX knowledge of program behavior  BehaviorCase or Path Quest answers the question What parts of the program are responsible for this part of the final program behavior  BehaviorPath or Connect the Dots answers the question What is the result of following this path  BehaviorHere or Come Here answers the question What parts of the program are involved in reaching this point  Since FX covers all of the behavior of a program we need not worry that some special case has been overlooked.  FXplorer is an example of a new generation of software engineering automation that can capitalize on computed behavior to amplify human capabilities for program understanding and verification against specifications.  As an emerging discipline, FX technology holds promise for engineering correct programs, and FXplorer provides a powerful illustration of how computed behavior can be leveraged to create new engineering capabilities  9. References  1 C ollins, R., W a lton, G He v n e r A a nd L i ng e r R The CERT Function Extraction Experiment: Quantifying FX Impact on Software Comprehension and Verification Technical Note CMU/SEI-2005-TN-047, Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, 2005 2 G a lla g h e r J.R. L y le  Using Program Slicing in Software Maintenance IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. 17, No. 8, pp. 751-761, Aug. 1991 3 H e v ne r, A L i ng e r R., Collins R P l e s z k oc h M P r ow ell, S., and Walton, G The Impact of Function Extraction Technology on Next-Generation Software Engineering Technical Report CMU/SEI-2005-TR-015, Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University July 2005 4 L ing e r, R., Mills H., a nd  W itt, B Structured Programming: Theory and Practice Addison-Wesley, Inc., 1979 5 L ing e r, R  a nd P l e s z k oc h M Improving Network System Security with Function Extraction Technology for Automated Calculation of Program Behavior  Proceedings of the 37th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Science \(HICSS35 Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA, January 2004 6 L ing e r R P l e s z k oc h, M., Burns L H e v n e r A a nd Walton, G Next-Generation Software Engineering Function Extraction for Computation of Software Behavior  Proceedings of the 40 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA January 2007 7 L y l e  J  R., G a lla g h e r  K  B A program decomposition scheme with applications to software modification and testing Proceedings of the 22 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS22 Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA January 1989  8 M ili, A Da ly T P l e s z k oc h, M., a nd Prowell,  S Next-Generation Software Engineering: A Semantic Recognizer Infrastructure for Computing Loop Behavior  Proceedings of Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 Hawaii IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA, 2007  9 P le s z k o c h  M H a us le r, P H e v n e r A a nd L i ng e r R Function-Theoretic Principles of Program Understanding  Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Science \(HICSS23 Hawaii  IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA January 1990  W a lton, G L ong s t a f f  T  a nd L i ng e r R Technology Foundations for Computational Evaluation of Security Attributes Technical Report CMU/SEI-2006-TR-021 Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, D ecembe r 2006     Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11 modeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, active center of gravity control, etc Lingyu Yang has got his PhD in Navigation, Guidance and Control from Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China, 2007. He is currently an assistant instructor in the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering in BUAA. His main field of research is control allocation and flight control of aerospace vehicles. His research interests include integrated control system, m odeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, fli ght simulation, etc Gongzhang Shen was born in 1945 in China. Since 1990s, he has been a professor at the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering, Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China His research interests include integrated control technology integrated vehicle management system nonlinear modeling, control and simulation of various aerospace vehicles, etc 


DAily SMLS TIROPI TMMS solar 90 243 60 A IIt I  I 1111X   L _~17A Hi FMAMJ ASOND 0.3 1.0 1.5 20 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 0 80 9.0 Nunber of observatio  24h Figure 10 Number of observations per each 24 hour period for LEOMAC-P top row and LEOMAC-S bottom row Everywhere in a given color is measured that number of times with lOxIO km horizontal resolution for TROPI TIMS and 50x50 km for SMLS The left three columns show an example for Aug 17 The rightmost column shows the annual variation for the TROPI and TIMS solar measurements where the vertical line is 17 August The number of measurements per 24 hour period for SMLS and TIMS/thermal has only a minor variation throughout the year 1000 km i 100 km 10 km GUobal I Global j Figure 11 Overarching scientific issues that need to be addressed by future atmospheric composition missions and LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC horizontal vertical and temporal coverage and resolution For the various measurement objectives L indicates that observations are needed in the lower troposphere U that they are needed in the upper troposphere and S that they are needed in the stratosphere The right end of each horizontal arrow is the required horizontal resolution and the left end is the required coverage The upper end of each vertical arrow is the desired temporal resolution and the lower end is the required resolution 13 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


