A data mining approach to PubMed query refinement Margherita Berardi 1 Michele Lapi 1 Pietro Leo 2 Donato Malerba 1  Caterina Marinelli 2 Gaetano Scioscia 2 1 Dipartimento di Informatica \205 Universit\340 degli Studi di Bari via Orabona 4 - 70126 Bari 2 Java Technology Center - IBM SEMEA Sud Via Tridente, 42/14 - 70125 Bari 1 berardi, lapi, malerba }@di.uniba.it 2 pietro_leo, caterina_marinelli, g_scioscia}@it.ibm.com 
Abstract laborious ate heterogeneous factors. Much of the related information is currently contained in biological and l text mining a central bioinformatic problem. More than 14 million e Medline paper we present a data mining engine, namely MeSH Terms a 
 query by means of discovery of concept relations in the form of association rules. However, the number of usually high and the interest of most of  them does not fulfil user expectations. In addition, the presentation of om interpreting them. To overcome this problem we on of some filtering techniques. Experimental results on datasets 
ies are discussed and future directions are drawn 1. Introduction In biomedicine, the decoding of the human genome has increased the number of online publications leading to information overload. Every 11 years, the number of researchers doubles [7 an d Med li n e, t h e main resource of research literature, has been growing with more than 10,000 abstracts per week since 2002 1  Therefore, finding disease relationships requires laborious examination of several possible candidate 
 1 www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/factsheets/medline.html heterogeneous factors. Moreover, the data to be examined \(i.e. textual data\e generally unstructured as in the case of PubMed search results The need to analyze this volume of unstructured cal applications is where data  Data mining allows to extract patterns from data such that they are certain, previously unknown, and potentially useful for the specific application Discovered patterns can be in various forms, such as 
describe the partition of the data into a given set of classes, clusters of data patterns describing trends, that is, regular changes of one or more attributes when moving away from a given start object, and subgroup patterns, which identify subgroups of objects with unusual unexpected, or deviating distribution of a target varia   association rules [2 as  dical text corpora in a query 
expansion process. In information retrieval, the term query expansion stands for any process which builds a new query from an old one. Generally the expansion is performed by adding new terms. In particular, starting from an initial PubMed user\220s query Q that selects a set of PubMed abstracts A we extend Q ding associations discovered among MeSH terms in A  Therefore, we propose MeSH Terms Associator MTA\that is a data mining tool able to discover association rules on biomedical text corpora 
MTA has been integrated in a distributed architecture, where the association rule discoverer interfaces the PubMed repository and supports users in the iterative process of refining a PubMed user\220s query on the base of the discovered associations. Since the number of discovered association rules is usually high Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications \(DEXA\22204 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


and the interest of most of them does not fulfil user expectations, filtering techniques have been applied The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents a distributed framework for MTA. The problem of mining association rules in MTA is described in Section 3. Finally, the application of MTA to common biomedical datasets is presented in Section 4. Some experimental results are reported and conclusions are drawn  2. A general framework for MTA In a real-world scenario the PubMed user could be interested in looking for fact ors which are correlated to a specific disease or drug reaction. A typical query in a workflow for MTA is composed by a disease name and/or chemical compound names \(e.g. drugs\. The MTA module takes the PubMed user\220s query and  association rules on the retrieved abstracts and finally it formulates some possible query expansions on the red associations As shown in Fig. 1 the user\220s query is run on the PubMed remote database through the IBM Web Services for Life Sciences 2 to obtain the list of corresponding abstracts. Abstracts that satisfy the user\220s query are initially annotated by the BioTeKS Text Analysis Engine \(TAE\ovided within the IBM UIM Architecture [5  b y usin g a l o cal MeSH t e r m s  dictionary. The Terms Associator \(TA\putes the most frequent MeSH terms in the tagged abstracts returned by BioTeKS TAE and runs the association rule discovery engine. The discovered associations are automatically pruned by means of a filtering module Then the user can either forward remaining discovered association rules to the query expansion module or interact with MTA through the template filtering module. Additionally, MTA allows the user to evaluate the quality of pruned rules according to his/her domain knowledge by defining rule templates. User-defined templates are used to select the associations that generate possible query expansions taking user preferences into account. The associations involved in ical way related to diseases or drugs reactions specified in the initial query Finally, the new queries are again submitted via web services to the PubMed repository and the new retrieved abstracts are sent to BioTeKS TAE, which in this case, annotates exclusively gene names contained in abstracts. Extracted genes will be useful for subsequent bioinformatics analyses 3. Mining association rules in MTA The discovery of association rules has attracted a great deal of attention in data mining research Association rules are a class of regularities introduced  that can be expressed by an i m pl icati on  X 001 Y where X and Y are a sets of items, such that X 000\210 Y 000\207 The meaning of such rules is quite intuitive: Given a database D be of transactions, where each transaction T 000\217 D is a set of items, X 001 Y expresses that whenever a transaction T contains X than T probably contains Y also. The conjunction X 000\232 Y is called pattern Two parameters are usually reported for association estimates the probability p\(X 000\216 T 000\232 Y 000\216 T\, and the confidence, which estimates the probability p\(Y 000\216 T | X 000\216 T\. The goal of association rule mining is to find all the rules with support and confidence exceeding user specified thresholds, henceforth called minsup and minconf  2 Weil, N BioIT World URL: http://www.bioitworld.com/news/042203_report2381.html Fi g 1 MTA framework  Association rules discovery Filterin g new query tagged abstracts query query/abstracts IBM Web Services Query expansion Knowledge of interest associated to initial query association rules BioTeKS TAE MeSH PubMed abstracts Template filtering Preprocessing MTA TA gene names Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications \(DEXA\22204 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


respectively. A pattern X 000\232 Y is large \(or frequent\f its support is greater than or equal to minsup. An association rule X 000o Y is strong if it has a large support i.e. X 000\232 Y is large\d high confidence In MTA association rules are mined by means of Association Rules Extractor \(ARE\ that is a data mining module implemented in KDB2000 [1   AR E  ri algorithm [3 t o di s c ov e r  a s so c i a t i ons  among items composing transactions of a database Although discovered association rules are evaluated  ough positive evidence, the number of discovered association rules is usually high and even considering only those rules with high confidence and support it is not true that all of them are interesting. It may happen that some of them correspond to prior knowledge, refer to uninteresting items or are redundant. On the other hand, the presentation of thousands of rules can discourage users from interpreting them in order to find owledge Furthermore, it is very difficult to evaluate which rules might be interesting for the end users by means of some simple statistics such as support and confidence. Therefore, an additional processing step is necessary in order to clean, order or filter interesting patterns/rules We propose the application of a filtering technique that is inspired by association rule covers proposed by 9 le cov er s i s a do m a in ind ep end e n t m e tho d t o  eliminate redundancy in rules. A rule cover is basically a subset of the original set of discovered rules such that the cover matches all the transactions that the original set matches. In particular, structural rule cover can be fined as follows Given a collection C of rules with the same item set Y as consequent S is a structural rule cover if for all rules \(X 001 Y 000\217 S there is no rule \(X\220 001 Y 000\217 C  that X\220 000\215 X Once covers have been built the remaining rules are pruned In the following example, the first rule is pruned because it is more specific of the second one and then t therapeutic, diabetes mellitus non insulin dependent 000o insulin 5.3%, 82.2 diabetes mellitus non insulin dependent 000o insulin 7.4%, 59 on of structural rule cover also to collections of rules that share the same item set as antecedent. In this way we look for the most specific rules of the original rule set strongly exploit power of rules of matching data, it is an uninformative filtering method. Indeed, automatic approaches do not take into account user preferences and expectations, so they should be augmented with user-guided methods, such as templates, to take domain knowledge into account Hence, in MTA an additive filtering method, based on user-defined templates, has been implemented ng what items occur in the antecedent and what items in the consequent. The templates ap proach, used as a means to find interesting rules, has been proposed by [6   In they specify in the form of templates both what is interesting inclusive templates nd what is not restrictive templates n this way, a rule is interesting if it satisfies at least one inclusive template and no restrictive templates. In practical applications restrictive templates can be used to filter out rules that express prior knowledge An example of template is specified as follows human, any 000o cell This pattern matches the following rules human, neoplasm 000o cell human, tissue 000o cell d it does not match human, neoplasm 000o heart disease Using the following inclusive template any 000o Alzheimer disease, any which asks for rules that contain the term Alzheimer disease in the consequent, the user wants to discover ng factors correlated to the Alzheimer disease  In addition, the user may recognize some of the mined associations \(e.g human, cell 000o Alzheimer disease, neuron lter out them because they represent trivial or prior knowledge. This filtering is obtained by setting a restrictive template as follows human, cell, any 000o Alzheimer disease, any 4. Experimental results In this section, we intend to evaluate the data mining engine on datasets generated by means of PubMed queries formulated by experts in the cal sector. An example of PubMed query formulated by biomedical researchers may ask for discovering the factors related to the reactions to Alzheimer disease treatments \(i.e. \215Alzheimer drug treatment response\216 In particular, in this work seven PubMed queries are considered and are detailed in Table 1 Each query generates a different dataset that has been stored in a single table of a relational database where each transaction is associated to an individual Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications \(DEXA\22204 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


Table 2 Statistics on discovered association rules Table 1 Biomedical datasets abstract and is described in terms of items that correspond to MeSH terms For each query, we run the association rule uent MeSH terms belonging to the retrieved abstracts. After some tuning of the parameters minsup and minconf, we decide to run the association rules discoverer with the parameter values equals to 0.05 and 0.5, respectively. This means that we are interested in mining associations X 000o Y involving MeSH terms such that the pattern X 000\211 Y occurs at least in the 5% of abstracts \(i.e. database transactions\. In addition, the ratio between the number of abstracts in which the entire pattern occurs and the total number of abstracts in which X occurs is greater than 0.5 By setting support and confidence as explained above, the MTA data mining engine is able to discover strong association rules. An example of rule returned by MTA for the fourth dataset is the following e 000o therapeutic, Alzheimer disease      8.73%, 80.7 which states that in the 80.7% of cases patients that  brain problems and neurons with protein aggregates amyloide as Alzheimer disease The term therapeutic is also involved in the discovered association. A justification is that a solution to reduce ges of the Alzheimer disease is to avoid the forming of amyloide through the right use of a particular drug Another example of mined rule in the fifth dataset follows hypertension, therapeutic  angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor 000o ation 6.4%, 86.6 which states that in the 86.6% of cases a pharmaceutical preparation that can be used for the pharmaceutical treatment of hypertension is an e angiotensin converting enzyme A justification is that this inhibitor improves blood circulation in patients with heart left ventricle  Discovered association rules can be employed in om PubMed. We extract the gene names whose correlation to the initial query will be examined by experts. For instance, using consequent terms of the first association rule example, the following gene names are found by the system: APP S182, STM2 SOMATOSTATI, BCL2A1, ANON, ANXA, RHO  of which the first three are related to Alzheimer disease and the others need further investigation In Table 2 statistics on the number of discovered association rules for different datasets are reported It is noteworthy, that more specific queries select sets of abstracts that contain few shared terms. This leads to a quite high number of discovered association rules because the data mining engine does not discover regularities in data. Nevertheless, this set of rules may describe associations that are quite specific and without generalization power. Therefore, the filtering lity is high because the implemented pruning method aims to eliminate the most specific rules 5. Conclusions In this paper a data mining tool for MeSH terms associations discovery in biomedical text corpora namely MTA, has been presented. The typical workflow in which MTA runs has been illustrated. We some details on the data mining ted in MTA and the application of MTA to real-world biomedical case-studies. Results show that MTA mines interesting rules For future work we intend to apply clustering methods to structure the rules set as additional technique to reduce the number of mined rules Clustering of rules lead to new open questions. How to define distance measures between rules? Can the number of clusters be intuitively or statistically Query id y in detail NARP  Neuropathy Ataxia Retinitis Pigmentosa ADI Alzheimer Drug Interactions HARD Hypertension Adverse Reaction Drugs ADTR Alzheimer Drug Treatment Response HDI Hypertension Drugs Interactions DDR Diabetes Drugs Response CDTE Cancer Drugs Treatment Environment Query id Number of retrieved abstracts Number of extracted association rules Number of association rules after pruning NARP 113 472 310 ADI 136 211 96 HARD 130 137 39 ADTR 653 168 60 HDI 816 311 77 DDR 679 54 24 CDTE 704 76 36 Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications \(DEXA\22204 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


defined? How to select the candidate rule that is representative of each cluster Furthermore, we plan to investigate the discovery of generalized association rules according to user defined taxonomies between classes of items [8 W e i n tend t o  explore the extraction of generalized rules involving classes of items rather than single items. In the considered application scenario, exploiting the inherent hierarchical structure of the MeSH taxonomy is a natural extension of our method. Hierarchies allow association rules mining at multiple abstraction levels that can be exploited for the generation of query expansions that take into account correlations that are stronger than those discovered with the current MTA approach Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank dr. Graziano Pappad\340 for his contribution and assistance in conducting experiments 6. References  A Appic e M Ceci., and D. M a lerb a  215KDB2000: An integrated knowledge discovery tool\216, In A. Zanasi, C. A Brebbia, N.F.F. Ebecken, P. Melli \(Eds Data Mining III  Series Management Information Systems, Vol 6, 531-540 WIT Press, Southampton, UK  awal, T. Im ielinski and A. Swam i 215Mi n ing association rules between sets of items in large databases\216 Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data Washington, D.C., 1993  R. Agrawal, and R Srikant 215Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules\216 Proc. of the Twentieth Int.Conf. Very Large Databases Santiago, Cile,1994 4  M. Fayyad, G  Piatetsk y-S hap iro an d P. Sm y t h   215From Data Mining To Knowledge Discovery: An Overview\216 In Advances In Knowledge Discovery And Data Mining eds. U.M. Fayyad, G. Piatetsky-Shapiro P. Smyth, and R. Uthurusamy, AAAI Press/The MIT Press: Menlo Park, CA., pp. 1-34,1996  D Ferr ucci, A. and Lally, "UI MA: An Architectural Approach to Uns tructured Information Processing in the Corporate Research Environment", to appear in g June 2004  ettinen, H. Mannila, P Ronkainen H Toivonen and A. I. Verkamo. \215Finding Interesting Rules from Large Sets of Discovered Association Rules\216 Proc. of the 3rd Int'l e Management Gaithersburg, Maryland pp. 401-407 er 1994 7 M. F. Per utz, W i ll b i om edicine ou tgr o w sup p o r t   Nature, 399, \(1999\9-301   R. Srikant and R. Ag rawal, \215Mining Generalized Association Rules Proc. of the 21st Int'l Conf. on Very Large Databases Zurich, Switzerland, Sep 1995 9 H To ivonen, M. Klemetinen, P. Ronkainen, K Hatonen, and H. Mannila, \215Pruning and grouping discovered association rules\216 Mlnet Workshop on Statistics, Machine Learning, and Discovery in Databases 1995, 47-52 Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications \(DEXA\22204 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


comprising all period-supported sessions of the personalized resources comprising all resource-supported sessions in for The proposed periodic web personalization approach is implemented in C The experiment is performed on a 3.4GHz Intel Pentium 4 PC machine with 1GB memory running on MS Windows XP The web usage logs are collected from a web forum called 322North Latitude One BBS\323 http://bbs.nlone.net This web forum consists of a total of 64 topics including 7 main topics such as Past In this paper we have proposed a novel web usage mining approach for supporting effective periodic web personis the subset of is the subset of t to four different values i.e is the whole period for periodic web personalization and As the Personal Web Usage Lattice only stores typical web access activities supported by some of access sessions in the training web usage logs if the period-supported activities cannot be found the generated set of personalized resources will be empty Therefore the applicability measure gives a rough idea on how often applicable personalized resources will be generated   0 1 0      0  1 003 and an average of 92.3 for all the four test users with period conditions longer than and equal to 0.5 hours                     0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 0.5 1 2 4 Duration of Periods \(hours Applicability u13 u36 u48 u82 Figure 3 Performance results based on applicability    5 0 0 0 5 0 and the average satisfaction of 88.9 for all four test users satisfaction 0 PR i    PR i   PR i 001 PR a  PR PR PR PR PPR PR 0  t period conditions where each period condition satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction d i 327 d PR PR PR PR   1 2 4 T T s d i s s 001 1 i 003 n          The of the personalized resources is de\336ned as time Soccer in Sports etc The whole dataset contains a total of 6,828 acces s sessions from 01-May-2005 to 31-May-2005 with each session comprising requested URLs from the 64 topics The top 4 users with most access sessions are selected as test users We use access sessions of the 4 users from 01-May-2005 to 20-May-2005 as the training dataset to construct the Personal Web Usage Lattices for the 4 test users and use access sessions of the 4 users from 21-May-2005 to 31-May-2005 as the testing dataset to evaluate the performance of the proposed approach As a result the number of generated web access activities of users u13 u36 u48 and u82 are 912 1196 258 and 1005 respectively We then generate personalized resources for a set of prede\336ned period conditions and measure the performance based on the applicability and satisfaction measures with respect to the different durations of period conditions from 0.5 to 4 hours and the different numbers of personalized resources from 1 to 6 Suppose that be the set of all access sessions for testing if 004  In this experiment we set De\336nition 16 i p i i a  24 24 1 327  Figure 3 shows the applicability of the overall web personalization based on the different durations of period conditions from 0.5 to 4.0 hours The experimental results have shown that the proposed periodic web personalization approach has obtained an acceptable applicability for the prede\336ned period conditions with appropriate durations We have achieved at least 85.4 for the user u48 with Let and  6 Conclusions p i i r i p i p i i e t e 212 t s 212 d SS r  SS p   t The satisfaction measures how likely a user is interested in one of the personalized resources in the period-supported sessions 5.2 Experimental Results time Sports Computer etc and 57 sub-topics such as MovieTV in Past S S  d 004  n p t i 212 d d  d  d   otherwise The SS SS SS SS Figure 4 shows the satisfaction of the overall web personalization for the different durations of period conditions from 0.5 to 4.0 hours based on different numbers of personalized resources from 1 to 6 As shown in Figure 4 when the number of personalized resources increases the satisfaction also increases But the increase is not signi\336cant after the number of personalized resources is more than 4 Although the satisfaction can be further improved with more personalized resources e.g 6 too many personalized resources will affect the preparation process of useful resources for users With at most 4 personalized resources we have obtained the lowest satisfaction of 77.9 for the user u82 with satisfaction       SS   003  for overall web personalization is de\336ned as is the duration of each period condition Then we have a total of 


References Knowledge and Information Systems Proc of the 14th Intl Joint Conf on AI Proc of the 14th Intl Conf on Data Engineering Proc of the 9th Intl Conf on Cooperative Information Systems Comm of ACM Proc of the 15th Intl Symposium on Foundations of Intelligent Systems Proc of the 10th Intl Conf on Travel Behaviour Research Data Knowledge Engineering Journal of Information and Control  pages 924\320 929 1995 8 D  O la ru a n d B  S mith  M o d e llin g D a ily Ac ti v ity Sc h e d u le s with Fuzzy Logic In 1 R  C ool e y  B  M obasher  a nd J S r i v ast a v a  D at a P r e par a t i o n for Mining World Wide Web Browsing Patterns a c 5 0 0 0 Formal Concept Analysis Mathematical Foundations User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction 0 1 2 4 Figure 4 Performance results based on satisfaction Proc of the 8th Intl Symposium on Temporal Representation and Reasoning     1\(1\:5\32032 1999 2 M  E irin a k i a n d M  V a z ir g ia n n is We b M in in g f o r We b P e r sonalization  3\(1\:1\32027 2003 3 B G a n te r a n d R W ille   40\(3\:77\32087 1997 5 D  L i a nd J S  D e ogun D i sco v e r i ng Par t i a l P er i odi c S equential Association Rules with Time Lag in Multiple Sequences for Prediction In  2003  B  O zden S  R amasw amy  and A S i l b erschat z C ycl i c Association Rules In  13\(4\:311\320372 2003  C S h ahabi  F  B Kashani  Y  S  C hen and D  M cL eod Yoda An Accurate and Scalable Web-Based Recommendation System In  42\(2\:189\320222 2002  L  A  Z a deh F u zzy S e t s   8:338\320353 1965 u13 u36 u48 u82 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 1 23456 Number of Personalized Resources Satisfaction u13 u36 u48 u82 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 1 23456 Number of Personalized Resources Satisfaction u13 u36 u48 u82 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 1 23456 Number of Personalized Resources Satisfaction u13 u36 u48 u82  Springer-Verlag 1997 4 J  A  K o n s ta n  B N M ille r  D M a ltz  J  H e r lo c k e r  L  G o r don and J Riedl Grouplens Applying Collaborative Filtering to Usenet News  pages 332\320341 2005 6 Y  L i  P  N i ng X  S  W a ng and S  J aj odi a D i sco v e r i ng Calendar-Based Temporal Association Rules In  pages 111\320118 2001 7 H  L ie b e rma n  L e tiz ia  A n A g e n t th a t Assists W e b Bro w sing In  pages 412\320421 1998  D  P i er r a k o s G  Pal i our as C  P apat heodor ou and C  D  Spyropoulos Web Usage Mining as a Tool for Personalization A Survey  pages 418\320432 2001  G  S t umme R  T aoui l  Y  B a st i d e N  Pasqui er  a nd L Lakhal Computing Iceberg Concept Lattices with TITANIC b d d  d  d  d  0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 1 23456 Number of Personalized Resources Satisfaction ACM TOIT alization using periodic access p atterns of individual users Different from non-periodic approaches the proposed approach can ef\336ciently determine which resources a user is most probably interested in during a given period without the use of the user\325s current access information This makes it possible to perform more costly personalized resource preparation in advance rath er than in real-time The experimental results have shown that the proposed approach has achieved very effective web personalization evaluated by the applicability and satisfaction measures for the prede\336ned period conditions 


G f d O??Et c f d tb ? f} g ? h c h d h Figure 2. A frequency tree example After we built a frequency tree, we then use the Quick-split technique to calculate the maximal frequent sets The Quick-split algorithm is given here Input: A frequency tree r Output: An array of BitSets representing Itemsets Quick-split\(Tree r 1: if\(r is leaf   2: for all x E r.subs do 3: subres[x] = Quick-split\(x x 4: result =newBSO 5: for all x E r.subs do 6: result = result &amp; subres[x 7: remove b E result, b.size:::; k 8: return result To speed up calculation, an itemset is represented by a bitset with 0 and I for specifying the absence or presence of an item at a corresponding position respectively. The Quick-split performs a calculation on a frequency tree and returns an array of bitsets, which represent a group of decomposed itemsets. Splitting is accomplished by calculating bitset results in a bottom  up fashion in the tree. In the above example, we have 8 items a, b, . . .  , h corresponding to positions 0-7 in a 8bit bitset. So p.JS = abcdefgh = {I III I Ill}; abcd ll1 10000}; bcdefgh = {OllillII}. The size of the bitset is the number of items in p.JS which is usually much smaller than the total item size in the dataset For the frequency tree in Figure 2, for the itemset abcdefgh and infrequent 3-itemsets {aef, aeg, aeh, afg ajh, agh, abe, abf, abg, abh, ace, acf, acg, ach, ade adf, adg, adh} , Quick-split returns the possible maximal frequent sets {abcd, bcdefgh The PD Algorithm Input: transaction dataset T Output: frequent patterns PD \( transaction-set T I : D 1 = {&lt;t, 1&gt;1 t E T}; k= I 2: while \(Dk   3: for all p E Dk do II counting 4: for all k-itemset s c;;; p.JS do 5: Sup\(s IDk 6: decide Lk and ?Lk Ilbuild Dk 7: Dk+]= PD-rebuild\(Dk, Lk , ?Lk 8: k 9: end 10: Answer = u Lk As shown above, PD is the top-level function that accepts a transaction dataset as its input and returns the union of all frequent sets as the result. At the kth pass steps 3-6 count for every k itemset of each pattern in Dk and then determine the frequent and infrequent sets Lk and ? Lk; step 7 uses Dk , Lk and ?Lk to rebuild Dk PD stops when Dk is empty The PD-rebuild Algorithm Input: Dataset Db frequent Lk, infrequent ?Lk Output: Dataset DB PD-rebuild \(Dlo Llo ?Lk 1: Dk  ht = an empty hash table 2: for all p E Dk do begin 3: / / q k, ?q k can be taken from previous counting qk={sls E p. JS nLk}; ?qk={tltE p. JS n ?Lk 4: u = PD-decompose\(p.JS, ?qk 5: v ={s E ul s is k-item independent in u 


5: v ={s E ul s is k-item independent in u 6: add &lt;u-v, p.Occ&gt; to Dk+1 7: for all s E v do 8: if sin ht then ht. s. Occ += p. Occ 9: else put &lt;S,p.Occ&gt; to ht 10: end 11: Dk+] = Dk+] u {p E ht The PD-rebuild shown above is to determine DB by Dk, Lk and ?Lk' For each pattern p in Db step 3 computes its qk and ?qk; step 4 calls PD-decompose algorithm to decompose p by ?qk. Note that qk is not used here for decomposing p. In steps 5 to 9, we use pattern separation rule to separate p. In steps 7 to 9 PD-rebuild merges the patterns separated from p with their identical ones via a hash table ht. Since PD follows the pattern decomposition rule to decompose patterns and the pattern separation rule for merging identical patterns that yield same support, the answers generated by PD are correct 3. Comparative Study Our experiments were performed on a 600 MHz Pentium PC machine with 256 MB main memory running on Microsoft Windows XP. All three algorithms were written in C++ language. The test dataset was generated in the same fashion as the IBM Quest project . We used dataset T25.I10.DIOOK . In the dataset, the number of items N was set to 1000. The corruption level for a seed large itemset was fixed obtained from a normal distribution with mean 0.5 and variance 0.1. In the dataset, half of all items were corruptible. In the dataset, the average transaction size ITI and average maximal potentially frequent itemset size III are set to 25 and 10, respectively, while the number of transactions IDI in the dataset is set to lOOK 3.1. Comparison of PD with DCP  Pattern Decomposition algorithm does not need to generate candidate sets which are the main improvement on DCP; the reduced dataset contains only itemsets whose subsets are all frequent  PD generates all frequent sets whether it is not certain in DCP. PD significantly reduces the dataset in each pass by reducing the number of transactions and their size to give better performance. So counting time is clearly less than DCP in a reduced dataset  PD is much more scalable than the DCP 8000 7000 6000 5000 lt;.i OOO E f OOO 2000 Minimum Support PD DCP Figure 3. Performance comparison 8 6 4 2 PD DCP owa_L??_L??_L??_L??_L??_L?? o 50 100 150 200 250 Number of Transactions\(k Figure 4. Scalability comparison Figure 3 shows the execution times for different 


Figure 3 shows the execution times for different minimum support. We can see that PD is about 15 times faster than DCP with minimal support at 2% and about 8 times faster than DCP at 0.25%. In Figure 4, to test the scalability with the number of transactions experiments on dataset D are used. The support threshold is set to 0.75 3.2. Comparison of PD with PIP  Predictive item pruning FP-tree algorithm has a complicated data structure in comparison to PD algorithm  PD works by decomposing transactions into short itemsets. Then regular patterns are combined together. Hence data set is being reduced at every pass. As a result, space efficiency is improved. On the other hand, PIP FP-tree, although prunes infrequent items, its hit ratio is not as efficient as PD. So, obviously its space efficiency is not better than PD  As PD always concerns with the current data set less time is required in comparison to PIP FP-tree algorithm  PD is more scalable than the PIP 100r  E F  60 40 0 20 PD  PIP Minimum Support Figure 5. Performance comparison 500 r 400 300 E F  oo 0 100     Number of Transactions\(k   PD  PIP   Figure 6. Scalability comparison 160 In Figure 5, both PIP and PD have good performance on D. But PIP takes substantially more time when minimum support in the range from 0.6% to 2%. When minimum support is less than 0.6%, the number of frequent patterns increased quickly and thus the execution times are comparable. In Figure 6, we compared the scalability of PD with PIP on the dataset D with minimum support = 0.75%. PD was clearly more scalable than that of PIP 4. Conclusion The programs were implemented in C++ very efficiently. Since really large datasets or data warehouse was not available for us, we run the programs of these three algorithms by using test datasets. So performance comparisons are not the absolute values. The results can vary on other 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


