  1 An Approach Attaining Adjustable Designated Footprint Wan-Hsin Hsieh National Chiao Tung University 1001 Dasyue Rd Hsinchu 30010, Taiwan 886-3-5712121 ext: 54579 hsieh1979@gmail.com Chieh-Fu Chang National Space Organization 8F, 9 Prosperity 1st Rd Hsinchu 30078, Taiwan 886-911-986-628 jeffchang@nspo.org.tw Ming-Seng Kao National Chiao Tung University 1001 Dasyue Rd Hsinchu 30010, Taiwan 886-3-5712121 ext: 54512 mskao@cc.nctu.edu.tw  Abstract 227In satellite communications, the footprint is 
characterized by contour lines with specific receiving power When data is delivered to the area within a specific footprint, called the designated footprint, illegal users outside the boundary of designa ted footprint \(BDF receive the signal with degrad ed power. In other words illegal users can obtain the transmitted data with higher error probability. In this paper, we present a special twostage serially concatenated \(2 SC\ coding scheme to more precisely define the designated footprint. Hence users outside the BDF are excluded from obtaining the data, i.e they cannot correctly decode the data. The key technique, 2SC coding scheme, achieves the brick-wall effect in error performance regarding bit energy-to-noise density ratio 
 0  NE b The brick-wall effect has sharp cutoff at a critical  0  NE b  When the transmitted data is protected by the 2-SC coding scheme, only the users within the designated footprint can successfully decode the data Otherwise, for users outside the BDF with received 0  NE b  slightly less than critical  0  NE b even if the coding structure is known, they cannot correctly decode the data 
Thus the BDF is sharply defined by the critical 0  NE b  Moreover, by means of purposely-introduced error in the codewords, we can adjust the critical  0  NE b  and the BDF We provide comprehensive analysis of the coding performance and further discuss the application of the proposed scheme to enhance secure satellite communications 1 2   1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 
  2 IEEEAC paper #1235, Version 3, Updated Nov. 18, 2008 T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION  1  2  C IRCULAR S YMMETRIC F OOTPRINT  2  3  P ROPOSED C OMMUNICATION S CHEME 
U SING 2-SC  C ODING  3  4  D ESIGNATED F OOTPRINT  5  5  D ISCUSSION AND C ONCLUSIONS  7  R EFERENCES  7  B IOGRAPHY  8 
 1  I NTRODUCTION  In satellite communications, the footprint consists of several contours to indicate specific receiving powers [1], [2 When transmitting data to the designated footprint, because of broadcasting nature of radio signals, the users outside the boundary of designate d footprint \(BDF signals with less power. In other words, those users can receive data with higher erro r probability. Thus the data may be obtained by illegal users The BDF can be defined by using the spot beam antenna The spot beam antennas can suppress the received power outside the beam coverage, so that users outside the coverage area cannot receive significant signal power 
However, deliberate hardware de signs are needed to attain the desired designated footprint, which might be expensive in practice. Moreover, it is difficult to adjust the antenna pattern to vary the designated footprint In this paper, we present a special 2-SC coding scheme to more precisely define the designated footprint. Unlike typical concatenated codes used for 4  the 2-SC coding is used to specify the BDF. The ReedSolomon \(R-S\he component codes in the 2-SC coding scheme. Specifically, the presented coding achieves the brick-wall effect in error performance with 


003\003 003  004 002 1 where path L is the path loss a L stands for additional loss 002 G is approximated by [5, page    2 1 1 2 1 0  C C nf C nfC G 002 002 222 sin cos drdD  path L dB\addition assume 7.35  r km In Figure 1, the slant distance from the satellite to the ground station A can be expressed in terms of  d km  5.205   2 sharp cutoff at a critical bit error rate \(BER\hen BER is slightly greater than the critical BER, the data cannot be correctly obtained. Since BER is a function of 0  NE b the critical BER leads to a critical  E b  N 0 denoted as cb NE  0  For users outside the BDF with 0  NE b slightly less than cb NE  0 even if the coding structure is known, they still cannot retrieve the data. Consequently, the BDF is clearly defined by the 2-SC coding. Moreover, we propose a simple scheme to adjust cb NE  0 and the associated BDF. To the authors\222 best knowledge, similar work has not been reported before This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, a circularsymmetric footprint is modeled to describe the data leakage outside the BDF. Then, the 2-SC coding scheme is introduced and the relevant performance is analyzed in Section 3. The technique of purposely-introducing error to adjust the BDF is also presented. Next, the construction of designated footprint is illustrated in Section 4. Finally, the discussion and conclusions are provided in Section 5 2  C IRCULAR S YMMETRIC F OOTPRINT  In this Section, a simple circular-symmetric footprint model is provided to describe the phenomenon of data leakage outside the designated footprint. This model will be further employed in Section 4. For simplicity, the subsatellite point of the footprint is assumed on the equator To characterize the footprint we consider the received 0  NE b first. In link analysis, let EIRP be the equivalent isotropic radiated power   EIRP dBW 4.0  TG r dBi/K 4 002 G dB maximum received 6.9 0  NE b dB 0  NE b of other portions can be computed according to the maximum 0  NE b  Figure 1 \226 Relationship of satellite and the Earth 002 G be the transmitting antenna pattern  C in Eq. \(2\tion, a 12.625-GHz axissymmetric reflector antenna with reflector of 2.5 meters in diameter is used The relationship of a satellite and the Earth is shown in Figure 1, where the average radius of Earth 378,6 212\212 3 In addition, using the law of sine s, the central angle is given by  212 sin sin 1 r d 4 We consider the satellite at geostationary orbit, i.e 165,42 005\006 002 005\006 005\006 003   2 2 sin sin\(8 1 002 be the off-axis angle, and r G be the receiving antenna gain. The received 0  NE b of a ground station is given by   b r apath b RT G LL GEIRP N E 1 0 0 004  is the Boltzmann\222s constant 0 T is the equivalent noise temperature, and b R is the transmission rate. For an axissymmetric reflector antenna, assume the edge illumination is C the radiation pattern  002 005\006 002 002 sin sin\(2 0 1 J nf 002 002 J nf 005  is the phase constant 006 is the radius of the aperture and i J  is the Bessel function of order i We assume 2.0 002   002\002 007 212  002 which corresponds to the subsatellite point. Since 0\0   b R Mbps\aximum received 0  NE b occurs at 0  a L dB 17 0 212  003 212 003  002 002 002 2 where 003    In Eq. \(2 


002 002 212 is the distance from the satellite to the subsatellite point and the denominator is the slant distance to station A as given in Eq. \(3 To sketch the contour of a specific rb NE  0 in the footprint, we compute r 002\002 5 where 2 222 sin cos  212\212 212 b r r r dr d rd 002 002 002  In Eq. \(5\erator, i.e  rd 002 in Eq. \(5\first. Then we have the central angle 002 002  in Eq. \(4\By t and y  rb NE 7, and 8 dB are depicted in Figure 2, and the s ubsatellite point is denoted by the cross sign. In Figure 2, let the area within the 8-dB contour be the designated footpri nt. The station at the 6-dB contour, which is about 63.0 in longitude \(~ 70 km from the BDF, still receives signals with 2 dB less power When BPSK signaling over the additive white Gaussian noise \(AWGN\the BER is 3 104.2  W and i w is a unit-word. For a given u we first randomly generate  1 21 212 k www and then k w is given as 1 21 212 n\n\n\n k k wwwuw  7 where \223   3 For the ground station A in the footprint illuminated by r 003\b\003 0 0  t denote the relative longitude and latitude of the point on the contour with respect to the subsatellite point Three example contours of 6 0  in Figure 1, the received 0  NE b denoted as rb NE  0 with respect to that of the subsatellite point sb NE  0 is obtained as   s b rr r b N E G N E  v is called a unit-word in the 2SC coding scheme. Let u be a unit-word to be encoded with an  kn R-S encoder.  First, the word-extension process transfers u to be a codeword W with k unit-words 1  k  i.e  21 k www 007 by r 007 the corresponding contour can be specified by 007\t\t coscoscos n 224 denotes binary addition of the unit-words. On the other hand, if W is given, we can obtain u through the inverse of word-extension process as below   k wwwu 212 327 e P for the 6-dB contour. The illegal users outside the 8-dB designated footprint may extract the transmitted information under this BER. Therefore, we propose the 2-SC coding scheme to define the BDF more sharply, such that users outside the designated footprint are no longer able to get the transmitted information 3  P ROPOSED C OMMUNICATION S CHEME U SING 2-SC  C ODING  Coding Process In the proposed scheme, a key is used to scramble the source data first. This key is encoded with the 2-SC coding scheme, and then transmitted with the scrambled data.  Note that only the key is encoded with the 2-SC coding scheme so that the added redundancy is little. In a receiver, the data can be successfully descrambled only if the key is correctly decoded. Details of the coding scheme are described as follows 1\ Encoding  Each stage of the 2-SC encoder comprises of the wordextension process and an  kn R-S encoder. To be clear, a binary v tuple symbol 1 003 yx  6 where x n\n\n 21  8 Next, the codeword W is encoded with the  kn R-S encoder with binary v bit unit-word. The resultant codeword is called the forw ard-error-corrected codeword FC\ which consists of n unit-words. Therefore, a unit-word becomes an FC after one encoding stage. In a word, the word-extension process makes the size of the extended codeword W consistent with the information block of the  kn R-S code, and the R-S coding makes the FC have inherent error-correcting capability Figure 2 \226 Circular-symmetric footprint 


003 Thus the 2-SC coding might be a ve ry low-rate coding scheme However, since only the key is encoded, the added overhead to the communication scheme is little when a large number of data are transmitted 2\ Decoding  The decoding process at the receiving end is essentially the inverse of the encoding process. First, let 2  C denote the set of received 2 nd stage FC\222s. When the channel BER is P e the probability of receiving a correct normal unit-word is   v e N PP 1 212 212   t qr rn N qr N t r PP qr qn E P  0 1 2 1   Prob  11 Note that the correct probability when t r   4 The encoding process of the key consists of three steps as shown in Figure 3. The sizes of the codeword after each encoding stage are also indicat ed in parentheses at the bottom of Figure 3. First, the key with k unit-words is encoded by an  kn R-S code to be an n unit-word codeword 0 C This encoder provides the key with errorcorrecting capability. Next 0 C goes through the 2-SC encoder to generate the  codeword 2 C Finally, some errors are purposely inserted into 2 C As will be clear later, the last process is a simple way to adjust the BDF In the 2-SC encoder, when 0 C inputs the 1 st stage encoder each unit-word in 0 C experiences the word-extension and the  kn R-S encoder to generate 1 st stage FC. Let 1 C be the output of 1 st stage encoder. The n unit-words in 0 C lead to n  1 st stage FC\222s in 1 C The same process is performed on each unit-word of 1 C in the 2 nd stage encoder. Therefore there are n 2  2 nd stage FC\222s in 2 C Note that each 2 nd stage FC still consists of n unit-words. Next, in each 2 nd stage FC q out of n unit-words are randomly selected and their contents are inverted, e.g., if 100101 is a common unitword, then the inverted unit-word is 011010  Since an FC consists of n unit-words, the overall code rate of the coding scheme shown in Figure 3 is  2 nnk 013 occurring in X as    1 1  Prob rn N qr N PP qr qn E  212 212   be an FC in 1  C Each unit-word i y has correct probability of 2 P  Let 2 E denotes the event that r erroneous unit-word occurs in Y Then we have   rn L r L PP r n E 212 212   10 Assume y is the decoded unit-word obtained from X  through R-S decoding and the inverse of word-extension process given in Eq. \(8 y is correct if the codeword after R-S decoder is correct. Let 2 knt 212  9 Let X be an FC in 2  C and 1 E denotes the event that r  erroneous unit-words occurs in X We assume the 212  be the maximum correctable errors in an  kn R-S code 6]. Then the correct probability of y denoted as 2 P is given by     t r rn L r L t r PP r n E P 0 0 2 1 1  Prob  13 After the 1 st stage decoding n unit-words with each having the correct probability of 1 P are obtained. By the following  kn R-S decoding process, the correct probability of the key key P is given by    is ignored. Let 1  C denote the 1 st stage FC\222s and  n yyyY 21  212  212  1  Prob 2  12 Similarly, the unit-word obtained from Y through RS decoding and the inverse of word-extension process has the correct probability as    q inverted unit-words are still erroneous at the receiving end Then we have the probability of exactly r erroneous unitwords  qr  t r rnr key PP r n P 0 11 1  14  Figure 3 \226 2-SC encoding process 212\212 212  212\212  212 212 212 


 NE b dB\point. When the area within the 8-dB contour line is chosen as the designated footprint in Figure 2, we adopt 15  cb NE dB Figure 5. Then users with received 081.8 0 013 NE b dB successfully decode the key, i.e 1   cbrb NENE 5\have the critical angle 2301.0 f key P  The designated footprint cons tructed by the 2-SC coding scheme with 15 f key P Otherwise, the key is lost since 0   5 Analytical Performance Here we adopt the 223,255  q in the 2-SC coding scheme and have 081.8 0 002\002 Then the associated 2912.1  007 is obtained by 2301.0  007 in Eq. \(6\is specified as shown in Figure 6   Figure 4 \226Analytical results of P key regarding P e of the 2-SC coding scheme, where n  k  255,223  q is illustrated as follows. First, let 081.8 0 0  rc  002 in Eq. \(4 applying 2912.1  kn R-S codes to verify the performance of 2-SC coding scheme. The relationship between key P and e P for different q values is shown in Figure 4. We find all the curve s have the brick-wall effect with sharp cutoff at different critical  e P denoted as c P For ce PP  the key will be correctly decoded since 1 f key P  Otherwise, the key will be lost, i.e 0 f key P In addition c P moves to a lower value when q increase s  For BPSK modulated signals in AWGN channel, the error performance in Figure 4 can be converted to the performance regarding 0  NE b as shown in Figure 5 Accordingly, the sharp cutoff occurs at the critical  0  NE b  denoted as cb NE  0 When the 0  NE b is greater than the cb NE  0 the probability of successfully recovering the key approaches one, i. e P key  1. Otherwise P key  0 when the received 0  NE b is slightly less than the cb NE  0 In other words, any receivers with 0  NE b 222s slightly less than cb NE  0 are prohibited from correctly decoding key. The brick-wall effect can be used in achieving the designated footpri nt with precisely-defined BDF 4  D ESIGNATED F OOTPRINT  The key for scrambling the data is encoded with the 2-SC coding with the component 223,255 R-S codes. The scrambled data can be correctly descrambled only if the key is correctly decoded. Hence the correct probability of the key, as shown in Figure 5, dominates the performance in achieving the designated foot print. We consider the example footprint in Section 2. The maximum received 6.9 0 


  6  Figure 6 \226Designated footprint \(shaded area q 15 with the 2-SC coding scheme  Figure 5 \226Analytical results of P key regarding E b N 0 of the 2-SC coding scheme, where n  k  255,223 


  7 In Figure 6, the designated foot print is denoted by the shaded area, which has received E b  N 0  8.081 dB. The data can be correctly retrieved only in the shaded area Otherwise, the data will be lo st outside the shaded area Consequently, the BDF is sharply defined by 081.8 0 r km 2912.1  8 13 15  E b  N  007 The associated values of the designated footprint are summarized in Table 1. Moreover, the relevant parameters to specify other designated footprints within 6dB and 7-dB contour lines are also provided in Table 1 5  D ISCUSSION AND C ONCLUSIONS  The scheme of sharply specify ing the designated footprint with the presented 2-SC coding scheme is proposed and the BDF is adjusted simply by the q value. Several merits of the proposed scheme are mentioned as below 1  The presented coding scheme can achieve very narrow designated footprint, which is difficult to be obtained in practice. For example, we can use 16 007 003=\r r  15 The parameter r is employed for performance evaluation According to Eq. \(15 007 is transferred into the radius of the designated footprint, e.g 74.143  6.024 7.113 8.081 002 c degree 0.3473 0.2922 0.2301 r km 216.98 182.55 143.74 r km  2  The 2-SC coding scheme and purposely-introduced errors can be regarded as the software-based approach Therefore, although we demonstrate the approach with a particular antenna, the presented scheme can apply to various antenna systems 3  The coding scheme can be employed in secure satellite communications. For example, when delivering a set of critical data to a specific receiver, the data can be processed by an encryption algorithm first and then further protected by the proposed scheme. For any illegal users who want to access the data, they must a\ost importantly, locate within the designated footprint b\ for descrambling the data c\ption algorithm It is very difficult for an illegal user to meet all three constraints simultaneously. Thus the security of data transmission is greatly enhanced In summary, we present the 2-SC coding scheme with the brick-wall effect in error pe rformance and adjustable sharp cutoff at cb NE  0 as illustrated in Figure 5. The designated footprint is precise ly specified with the 2-SC coding scheme as illustrated in Section 4 and Table 1 Furthermore, the proposed sche me can be regarded as a software-based approach. Thus the scheme can easily apply to different systems or coopera te with other techniques Although the designated footprint is adjusted by the parameter q due to the discrete values of q only a few numbers of designate d footprints are attainable. Therefore enhancing the coding scheme to achieve the continuouslyadjustable designated footpri nt will be our next step R EFERENCES    Gary D. Gordon and Walter L. M organ Principle of Communications Satellites, NY: Wiley, 1993  E Jacobs and J. M. St acey, \223Earth Footprints of Satellite Antennas,\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, volume AES-7, page 235-242, March 1971   George D. Forney  C oncatenated C odes, C a m bridge. M A MIT, 1966  S. B e nedetto, D. Divsalar, G. M ontorsi, and F Pollara 223Serial Concatenation of Interleaved Codes: Performance Analysis, Design, and Iterative Decoding,\224 IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, volume 44, page 909-926, May 1998  Warren L. Stutzm an and Gary A. Thiele, Antenna Theory and Design \(2nd ed.\, 1998  Shu Lin and Daniel J C o stello, Error Control Coding \(2nd ed Table 1 Parameters of Designate d Footprint with 2-SC Coding Scheme  q  q with 205.9 0 0  c dB  cb NE dB\designated footprint is slightly less than the area within 8-dB contour since 8 0  cb NE dB Because the example footprint is circularly symmetric according to Figure 1, the radi us of the designated footprint can be defined as    cb NE dB\in the scheme. Following the description of Sec tion 4, we have 74 


  8 B IOGRAPHY  Wan-Hsin Hsieh is currently a PhD student in Department of Communication Engineering of National Chiao Tung University \(NCTU in Taiwan. His research interests are satellite communications and applications of error-control coding. He has the B.S. and the M.S. degree from NCTU Dr. Chieh-Fu Chang is currently an assistant researcher at Electrical Engineering Divisi on of National Space Organization \(NSPO\ in Taiwan.  He holds his Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University.  His current research interests include GPS/GNSS receivers, digital receivers remote sensing and satellite communications Dr. Ming-Seng Kao is a professor of Department of Communication Engineering of National Chiao Tung University \(NCTU\ at Taiwan. His research interests are wireless communications and applic ations of error-control coding. He has the B.S. from National Taiwan University the M.S. degree from NCTU, and Ph.D. degree from National Taiwan University   


  Final PU Checkout Data PU Product Initial PU Product Category PU Login PU Login Error locked shoppingCart.count\(products checkout=true checkout=true shoppingCart.count\(products checkout=true bound\(productcategory check\(username, password Figure 10 Maximum presentation unit state machine for the online shop action Thus interaction follows a step-by-step fashion as no parallelism of input or output is possible A multi-dimensional interface may be transformed to a serialized form in case there is not enough real estate As mentioned in serialized interaction has tw o problems First when the interaction path splits there is no simple choice which interaction object to activate next Second backward references in a dialogue may lead to confusion when using the interface To avoid this a clean composition of the interface is necessary The interface elements have to be sorted topologically This ordering fulìlls all dependencies as long as there are no cycles The rendering process of a concrete implementation of speech or a GUI based on Figure 6 must take the possible parallelization of the physical representation of the modality into account It usually partly serializes all parallel behavior to a modality-speciìc amount Different heuristics and the semantics of RST relations with respect to content support this serialization Interactions for a speech interface always have to be serialized When two or more dialogues are in parallel and are not serializable because they are RST alternatives  a menu presents all possible alternatives to the conversation partner in a serialized form 6 Discussion In this paper we have improved upon the variable binding approach presented in which we subsequently found to be unnatural to model with in speciìc modeling situations such as modeling login We have recognized that one of the root causes of this modeling problem lies in the variables and their binding being present only in the leaf nodes of the discourse model trees This does not make sufìcient use of the tree structure For example the whole shopping post-login subtree can only be instantiated if there is a user logged in and the only way to express this with the binding approach would have been to use the user variable in each and every leaf of the shopping subtree However few of these nodes actually need the user identity variable directly Introducing procedural constructs and assigning procedural semantics to RST relation nodes as illustrated in this paper allows the modeler to gain more powerful and generic control of the behavior of the resulting interface In the example above modeling in the root node of the shopping subtree has an impact on the whole subtree so the additional mentioning of a variable in each subtree leaf node can be avoided We also pursue a more generic approach than leaf binding annotations and relational node semantic assignment This approach involves assigning information to the tree branches in the form of conditional expressions We have began using such expressions already in this paper since procedural semantics of relations in themselves are not enough e.g a Condition relation needs a conditional expression and we are currently investigating more generic use of conditional expressions in the form of constraints on any tree branch Working with such conditional expressions is also more exible both because it allows for more complex conditions than the is bound vs is not bound distinction from the binding approach and because it needs fewer procedural constructs and less procedural interpretation of the RST relations As mentioned above we allow for an arbitrary degree of dialogue parallelization This includes completely speech or partially GUI serialized interfaces for input and output When a system based on our discourse engine is coupled with a number of rendering schemes for input or output serialized interfaces may be interpreted together to allow parallel behavior to a higher degree Thus a more exible communication ow is provided 7 Related Work A main part of any user interface is its behavior Many approaches have recognized that it is advantageous to go beyond programming of the user interface behavior and to use some kind of dynamic models for its speciìcation and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


execution Most of these approaches utilize some kind of state machinery for this Book and Gruhn present an approach to describe the dialogue by dialogue graphs that are enhanced state machines They present the formal semantics of the Dialogue Flow Notation DFN that provides constructs for the design of modular navigation models These dialogue graphs are on the same level as our composite statecharts describing all possible dialogue paths The dialogue graphs have to be speciìed by the UI designer whereas our composite statecharts are automatically generated from the high-level discourse model ConcurTaskTrees are a w ay of hierarchical task modeling where different temporal relations among tasks can be speciìed e.g enabling disabling concurrency order independence and suspend-resume Out of such task models the user interface can be created through several steps of model transformations CTT also allows the derivation of presentation units consisting of a set of tasks and their transitions but their transition graph is more abstract than our presentation unit state machine skipping detailed trigger events for the transitions Elkoutbi et al present an approach that generates a user interface prototype from scenarios Scenarios are enriched with UI information and are automatically transformed into UML statecharts which are then used for UI prototype generation In contrast to this approach we model classes of dialogues supporting a set of scenarios We are not aware of any approach that would generate the behavior of user interfaces automatically from a largely declarative high-level discourse model In addition to taking a communication-centric approach and modeling humanmachine communication in the form of discourses we generate user interfaces automatically including their behavior 8 Conclusion In this paper we address the issue of automatic generation of the behavior of a user interface from a high-level discourse model While the generation seems to be possible from a purely declarative model the complete behavioral operationalization is facilitated by introducing behavioral constructs into the otherwise declarative model We deìned procedural semantics for both the procedural and the declarative constructs of the discourse model using statecharts Based on these building blocks for operationalization we showed how composite statecharts for whole discourse trees can be generated These directly deìne all possible behaviors of a fully serialized user interface e.g using speech input and output In contrast for a graphical user interface with potentially inìnite screen size we showed a derivation of a nite-state machine from a composite statechart for deìning its behavior The behavior of multimodal interfaces can be deìned in the spectrum between these extremes In this way we have deìned how the behavior of user interfaces can be automatically generated from a largely declarative high-level discourse model Taking this together with generating structural UI models enables the automatic generation of user interfaces from such discourse models 9 Acknowledgements This research has been carried out in the CommRob project  http://www.commrob.eu  and is partially funded by the EU contract number IST-045441 under the 6th framework programme References  C Bogdan J F alb H Kaindl S Ka v aldjian R Popp H Horacek E Arnautovic and A Szep Generating an abstract user interface from a discourse model inspired by human communication In Proceedings of the 41th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences HICSS-41  Piscataway NJ USA 2008 IEEE Computer Society Press  M Book and V  Gruhn Modeling Web-based dialog o ws for automatic dialog control In Proceedings of the 19th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering ASEê04  pages 100Ö109 Washington DC USA 2004 IEEE Computer Society  M Elk outbi I Khriss and R K K eller  Automated prototyping of user interfaces based on UML scenarios Automated Software Engg  13\(1 2006  S Ka v aldjian C Bogdan J F alb and H Kaindl T ransforming discourse models to structural user interface models In Models in Software Engineering LNCS  volume 5002/2008 pages 77Ö88 Springer Berlin  Heidelberg 2008  S K ost Dynamically Generated Multi-Modal Application Interfaces  PhD thesis TU Dresden 2006  P  Luf f N Gilbert and D Frohlich Computers and Conversation  Academic Press 1990  W  C Mann and S Thompson Rhetorical Structure Theory Toward a functional theory of text organization In Text  pages 243Ö281 1988  G Mori F  P aterno and C Santoro Design and de v elopment of multidevice user interfaces through multiple logical descriptions IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering  30\(8 8 2004  J R Searle Speech Acts An Essay in the Philosophy of Language  Cambridge University Press Cambridge England 1969 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11 This model specifies that covariates act multiplicatively on time t r than on the hazar d function.  That is, we assume a baseline hazard function to exist and that the effects of the covariates are to alter the rate at which an individual proceeds along the time axis.  In other words, the covariates z accelerates or decelerates the time to failure Kalbfleisch and Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  It should be pointed out that the distribution-based regression models for exponential and Weibull distributions in the previous section are th e special cases of both PHM and AFT.  This correspondence is not necessarily true for models based on other distribu tions. Indeed, two-parameter Weibull distribution has the uniq ue property that it is closed under both multiplication of fa ilure time and multiplication of the hazard function by an arbitrary nonzero constant Lawless 2003, Kalbfleisch & Prentice 2002, Klein Moeschberger 2003  2.6. Counting Process and Survival Analysis   In the previous sections, we introduced censoring and survival analysis models th at can handle the censored information; however, we did not discuss how the censored information is processed.  Accommodating and maximally utilizing the partial information from the censored observations is the most challenging and also the most rewarding task in survival anal ysis.  This also establishes survival analysis as a unique fiel d in mathematical statistics Early statistical inferences for censored data in survival analysis were dependent on asymptotic likelihood theory Severini 2000\ Cox \(1972, 1975\ proposed partial likelihood as an extension to classical maximum likelihood estimation in the context of hi s proportional hazards model as a major contribution. Asymptotic likelihood has been and still is the dominant theory for developing survival analysis inference and hypothesis testing methods \(Klein and Moeschberger 2003, Severini 2000\. There are many monographs and textbooks of survival analysis containing sufficient details for applying survival analysis \(Cox and Oakes 1984, Kalbfleisch and Prentice 1980, 2002, Lawless 1982, 2003, Klein and Moeschberger, 2003\. A problem with traditional asymptotic lik elihood theory is that the resulting procedures can become very complicated when handling more complex censoring mechanisms \(Klein Moeschberger 2003\. A more elegant but requiring rigorous measure-theoretic probability theo ry is the approach with counting stochastic processes and the Martingale central limit theorems.  Indeed, this approach was used by Aalen 1975\ to set the rigorous mathematical foundation for survival analysis, and later further developed and summarized by Fleming and Harrington \(1991\, Andersen et al. \(1993\several research papers.  In reliability theory Aven and Jensen \(1999\ dem onstrated such an approach by developing a general failure model, which we briefly introduced in Section 1.2. However, the counting process and Martingale approach require measure theoretic treatments of probability and st ochastic processes, which is often not used in engineering or applied statistics.  A detailed introduction of the topic is obviously beyond the scope of this paper, and we only present a brief sketch of the most important concepts involved.  Readers are referred to the excellent monographs by Andersen et al. \(1993 Fleming and Harrington \(1991\ Aven and Jensen \(1999\ for comprehensive details, and Kal bfleisch and Prentice \(2002 Klein and Moeschberger \(2003\, Lawless \(2003\ for more applicationñoriented treatments The following discussion on this topic is drawn from Klein and Moeschberger \(2003  A counting stochastic process N  t  t 0 possesses the properties that N  0 ro and N  t   with probability one. The sample paths of N  t ht continuous and piecewise constant with jumps of size 1  step function In a right-censored sample, \(we assume only right censoring in this section N i  t  I  T i t  i   which keep the value 0 until individual i fails and then jump to 1  are counting processes. The accumulation of N i  t ocess     1 t N t N n i i is again a counting process, which counts the number of failures in the sample at or before time t   The counting process keeps track of the information on the occurrences of events,   for instance, the history information such as which individual was censored prior to time t and which individual died at or prior to time t as well as the covariates information This accumulated history information of the counting process at time t is termed filtration at time t denoted by F t For a given problem F t  rests on the observer of the counting process.  Thus, two observers with different recordings at different times will get different filtrations.  This is what Aven and Jensen 1999\ referred to as different information levels or the amount of actual available information about the state of a system may vary  If the failure times X i and censoring times C i  are independent,  then the probability of an event occurs at time t given the history just prior to t  F t\n be expressed as  t T if dt t h t C t X dt t C dt t X t P F dt t T t P i i i i i i r t i i r          1     t T if F dt t T t P i t i i r 0   1    51  Let dN  t be the change in the process N  t over a short time interval    t t t Ignoring the neglig ible chance of ties 1   t dN if a failure occurred and 0   t dN otherwise  Let Y  t denote the number of individuals with an observation time T i t Then the conditional expectation of dN  t   dt t h t Y F dt t C dt t X t with ns observatio of number E F t dN E t i i i t              52 


 12 The process  t  Y  t  h  t  is called the intensity process  of the counting process.  It is a stochastic process that is determined by the information contained in the history process F t via Y  t  Y  t  records the number of individuals experiencing the risk at a given time t   As it will become clear that   t is equivalent to the failure rate or hazard function in tr aditional reliability theory, but here it is treated as a stochastic process, the most general form one can assume for it. It is this generalization that encapsulates the power that counting stochastic process approach can offer to survival analysis  Let the cumulative intensity process H  t be defined as   t t ds s t H 0 0      53  It has the property that  E  N  t  F t  E  H  t  F t  H  t   54  This implies that filtration F t, is known, the value of Y  t  fixed and H  t es deterministic H  t is equivalent to the cumulative hazards in tr aditional reliability theory  A stochastic process with the property that its expectation at time t given history at time s < t is equal to its value at s is called a martingale That is M  t martingale if           t s s M F t M E s  55  It can be verified that the stochastic process         t H t N t M 56  is a martingale, and it is called the counting process martingale The increments of the counting process martingale have an expected value of zero, given its filtration F t That is  0      t F t dM E 57 The first part of the counting process martingale [Equation 56  N  t non-decreasing step function.  The second part H  t smooth process which is predictable in that its value at time t is fixed just prior to time t It is known as the compensator  of the counting process and is a random function. Therefore, the martingale can be considered as mean-zero noise and that is obtainable when one subtracts the smoothly varying compensator from the counting process  Another key component in the counting process and martingale theory for survival analysis is the notion of the predictable variation process of M  t oted by    t M It is defined as the compensator of process   2 t M  The term predictable variation process comes from the property that, for a martingale M  t it can be verified that the conditional variance of the increments of M  t  dM  t  h e inc r em ents of   t M That is          t M d F t dM Var t  58  To obtain      t F t dM Var  one needs the random variable N  t  variable with probability   t of having a jump of size 1 at time t The variance of N  t   t  1 t   since it follows b i nom ial distribution    Ignoring the ties in the censored data 2  t  is close to zero and Var  dM  t  F t    t  Y  t  h  t   This implies that the counting process N  t on the filtration F t behaves like a Poisson process with rate  t    Why do we need to convert the previous very intuitive concepts in survival analysis in to more abstract martingales The key is that many of the sta tistics in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of the basic martingales described above The stochastic integral equations are mathematically well structured and some standard mathematical techniques for studying them can be adopted  Here, let   t K be a predictable  process An example of a predictable process is the process   t Y Over the interval 0 to t the stochastic integral of su ch a process, with respect to a martingale, is denoted by     0 u dM u K t It turns out that such stochastic integrals them selves are martingales as a function of t and their predictable variation process can be found from the predictable variation process of the original martingale by           0 2 0 u M d u K u dM u K t t 59 The above discussion was drawn from Klein and Moeschberger \(2003 also provide examples of how the above process is applied. In the following, we briefly introduce one of their exampl es ó the derivation of the Nelson-Aalen cumulative hazard estimator  First, the model is formulated as           t dM dt t h t Y t dN  60  If   t Y is non-zero, then               t Y t dM t d t h t Y t dN 61  Let   t I be the indicator of whether   t Y  is positive and define 0/0 = 0, then integrating both sides of above \(61 One get 


 13                     0 0 0 u dM u Y u I u d u h u I u dN u Y u I t t t 62  The left side integral is the Nelson-Aalen estimator of H t           0  u dN u Y u I t H t 63  The second integral on the right side           0 u dM u Y u I t W t 64  is the stochastic integral of the predictable process      u Y u I with respect to a martingale, and hence is also a martingale  The first integral on the right side is a random quantity    t H   t du u h u I t H 0        65  For right-censored data it is equal to   t H  in the data range, if the stochastic uncertainty in the   t W is negligible Therefore, the statistic    t H is a nonparametric estimator of the random quantity    t H   We would like to mention one more advantage of the new approach, that is, the martingale central limit theorem.  The central limit theorem of martingales ensures certain convergence property and allows the derivations of confidence intervals for many st atistics.  In summary, most of the statistics developed with asymptotic likelihood theory in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of some martingale.  The large sample properties of the statistics can be found by using the predictable variation process and martingale central limit theorem \(Klein and Moeschberger \(2003  2.7. Bayesian Survival Analysis  Like many other fields of statistics, survival analysis has also witnessed the rapid expansion of the Bayesian paradigm.  The introduction of the full-scale Bayesian paradigm is relative recent and occurred in the last decade however, the "invasion" has been thorough.  Until the recent publication of a monograph by Ibrahim, Chen and Sinhaet 2005\val anal ysis has been either missing or occupy at most one chapter in most survival analysis monographs and textbooks.  Ibrahim's et al. \(2005\ changed the landscape, with their comprehensive discussion of nearly every counterp arts of frequentist survival analysis from univariate to multivariate, from nonparametric, semiparametric to parametric models, from proportional to nonproportional hazards models, as well as the joint model of longitudinal and survival data.  It should be pointed out that Bayesian survival analysis has been studied for quite a while and can be traced back at least to the 1970s  A natural but fair question is what advantages the Bayesian approach can offer over the established frequentist survival analysis. Ibrahim et al 2005\entified two key advantages. First, survival models are generally very difficult to fit, due to the complex likelihood functions to accommodate censoring.  A Bayesi an approach may help by using the MCMC techniques and there is available software e.g., BUGS.  Second, the Bayesian paradigm can incorporate prior information in a natural way by using historical information, e.g., from clinical trials. The following discussion in this subsection draws from Ibrahim's et al. \(2005  The Bayesian paradigm is based on specifying a probability model for the observed data, given a vector of unknown parameters This leads to likelihood function L   D   Unlike in traditional statistics is treated as random and has a prior distribution denoted by   Inference concerning is then based on the posterior distribution which can be computed by Bayes theorem d D L D L D              66 where is the parameter space  The term    D is proportional to the likelihood    D L  which is the information from observed data, multiplied by the prior, which is quantified by   i.e          D L D 67 The denominator integral m  D s the normalizing constant of    D and often does not have an analytic closed form Therefore    D often has to be computed numerically The Gibbs sampler or other MCMC algorithms can be used to sample    D without knowing the normalizing constant m  D xist large amount of literature for solving the computational problems of m  D nd    D   Given that the general Bayesian algorithms for computing the posterior distributions should equally apply to Bayesian survival analysis, the specification or elicitation of informative prior needs much of the atte ntion.  In survival analysis with covariates such as Cox's proportional hazards model, the most popular choice of informative prior is the normal prior, and the most popular choice for noninformative is the uniform Non-informative prior is easy to use but they cannot be used in all applications, such as model selection or model comparison. Moreover, noninformative prior does not harness the real prior information. Therefore, res earch for informative prior specification is crucial for Bayesian survival analysis  


 14 Reliability estimation is influenced by the level of information available such as information on components or sub-systems. Bayesians approach is likely to provide such flexibility to accommodate various levels of information Graves and Hamada \(2005\roduced the YADAS a statistical modeling environment that implements the Bayesian hierarchical modeli ng via MCMC computation They showed the applications of YADES in reliability modeling and its flexibility in processing hierarchical information. Although this environment seems not designed with Bayesian surviv al analysis, similar package may be the direction if Bayesian survival analysis is applied to reliability modeling  2.8. Spatial Survival Analysis  To the best of our knowledge spatial survival analysis is an uncharted area, and there has been no spatial survival analysis reported with rigor ous mathematical treatment There are some applications of survival analysis to spatial data; however, they do not address the spatial process which in our opinion should be the essential aspect of any spatial survival analysis. To develop formal spatial survival analysis, one has to define the spatial process first  Recall, for survival analysis in the time domain, there is survival function   R t t T t S  Pr   68  where T is the random variable and S  t e cumulative probability that the lifetime will exceed time t In spatial domain, what is the counterpart of t One may wonder why do not we simply define the survival function in the spatial domain as   S  s  Pr S s  s R d  R > 0  69  where s is some metric for d-dimensional space R d and the space is restricted to the positive region S is the space to event measurement, e.g., the distance from some origin where we detect some point object.  The problem is that the metric itself is an attribute of space, rather than space itself Therefore, it appears to us that the basic entity for studying the space domain has to be broader than in the time domain This is probably why spatial process seems to be a more appropriate entity for studying  The following is a summary of descriptions of spatial processes and patterns, which intends to show the complexity of the issues involved.  It is not an attempt to define the similar survival function in spatial domain because we certainly unders tand the huge complexity involved. There are several monographs discussing the spatial process and patterns \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\.  The following discussion heavily draws from Cressie \(1993\ and Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  It appears that the most widely adopted definition for spatial process is proposed in Cressie \(1993\, which defines a spatial process Z  s in d-dimensions as    Z  s  s D R d  70  Here Z  s denotes the attributes we observe, which are space dependent. When d = 2 the space R 2 is a plane  The problem is how to define randomness in this process According to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005 Z  s an be thought of as located \(indexed\by spatial coordinates s  s 1  s 2  s n  the counterpart of time series Y  t  t   t 1  t 2  t n   indexed by time.  The spatial process is often called random field   To be more explicit, we denote Z  s  Z  s   to emphasize that Z is the outcome of a random experiment  A particular realization of produces a surface    s Z  Because the surface from whic h the samples are drawn is the result of the random experiment Z  s called a random function  One might ask what is a random experiment like in a spatial domain? Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\ offered an imaginary example briefly described below.  Imagine pouring sand from a bucket on to a desktop surface, and one is interested in measuring the depth of the poured sand at various locations, denoted as Z  s The sand distributes on the surface according to the laws of physics.  With enough resources and patience, one can develop a deterministic model to predict exactly how the sand grains are distributed on the desktop surface.  This is the same argument used to determine the head-tail coin flipping experiment, which is well accepted in statistical scie nce. The probabilistic coinflip model is more parsimonious than the deterministic model that rests on the exact \(perfect\but hardly feasible representation of a coin's physics. Similarly deterministically modeling the placement of sand grains is equally daunting.  However, th e issue here is not placement of sand as a random event, as Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\phasized.  The issue is that the sand was poured only once regardless how many locations one measures the depth of the sand.  With that setting, the challenge is how do we define and compute the expectation of the random function Z  s Would E  Z  s   s  make sense  Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\further raised the questions: \(1\to what distribution is the expectation being computed? \(2\ if the random experiment of sand pouring can only be counted once, ho w can the expectation be the long-term average  According to the definition of expectation in traditional statistics, one should repeat the process of sand pouring many times and consider the probability distributions of all surfaces generated from the repetitions to compute the expectation of Z  s is complication is much more serious 


 15 than what we may often reali ze. Especially, in practice many spatial data is obtained from one time space sample only. There is not any independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  How is the enormous complexity in spatial statistics currently dealt with? The most commonly used simplification, which has also been vigorously criticized, is the stationarity assumption.  Opponents claim that stationarity often leads to erroneous inferences and conclusions.  Proponents counte r-argue that little progress can be made in the study of non-stationary process, without a good understanding of the stationary issues Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  The strict stationarity is a random field whose spatial distribution is invariant under translation of the coordination.  In other word s, the process repeats itself throughout its domain \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005 There is also a second-order or weak\ of a random field  For random fields in the spatial domain, the model of Equation \(70  Z  s  s D R d  is still too general to allow statistical inference.  It can be decomposed into several sub-processes \(Cressie 1993             s s s W s s Z  D s  71  where  s  E  Z  is a deterministic mean structure called large-scale variation W  s is the zero-mean intrinsically stationary process, \(with second order derivative\nd it is called smooth small-scale variation   s is the zero-mean stationary process independent of W  s and is called microscale variation  s  is zero-mean white noise also called measurement error. This decomposition is not unique and is largely operational in nature \(Cressie 1993\he main task of a spatial algorithm is to determine the allocations of the large, small, and microscale components However, the form of the above equation is fixed Cressie 1993\, implying that it is not appropriate to sub-divide one or more of the items. Therefore, the key issue here is to obtain the deterministic  s  but in practice, especially with limited data, it is usually very difficult to get a unique  s   Alternative to the spatial domain decomposition approach the frequency domain methods or spectral analysis used in time series analysis can also be used in spatial statistics Again, one may refer to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  So, what are the imp lications of the general discussion on spatial process above to spatial survival analysis?  One point is clear, Equation \(69 S  s  Pr S s   s R d is simply too naive to be meaningful.  There seem, at least, four fundamental challenges when trying to develop survival analysis in space domain. \(1\ process is often multidimensional, while time pr ocess can always be treated as uni-dimensional in the sense that it can be represented as  Z  t  t R 1  The multidimensionality certainly introduces additional complications, but that is still not the only complication, perhaps not even the most significant 2\One of the fundamental complications is the frequent lack of independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process, as pointed out by Cressie \(1993\\(3\e superposition of \(1 and \(2\brings up even more complexity, since coordinates  s of each replication are a set of stochastic spatial process rather than a set of random variables. \(4\n if the modeling of the spatial process is separable from the time process, it is doubtful how useful the resulting model will be.  In time process modeling, if a population lives in a homogenous environment, the space can be condensed as a single point.  However, the freezing of time seems to leave out too much information, at least for survival analysis Since the traditional survival analysis is essentially a time process, therefore, it should be expanded to incorporate spatial coordinates into original survival function.  For example, when integrating space and time, one gets a spacetime process, such as          R t R D s t s Z d   where s is the spatial index \(coordinate t is time.  We may define the spatial-temporal survival function as   S  s  t  Pr T t  s D  72  where D is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidean space That is, the spatial-temporal survival function represents the cumulative probability that an individual will survive up to time T within hyperspace D which is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidian space.  One may define different scales for D or even divide D into a number of unit hyperspaces of measurement 1 unit  2.9. Survival Analysis and Artificial Neural Network   In the discussion on artificial neuron networks \(ANN Robert & Casella \(2004\noted, "Baring the biological vocabulary and the idealistic connection with actual neurons, the theory of neuron networks covers: \(1\odeling nonlinear relations between explanatory and dependent explained\ariables; \(2\mation of the parameters of these models based on a \(training\ sample."  Although Robert & Casella \(2004\ did not mentioned survival analysis, their notion indeed strike us in that the two points are also the essence of Cox s \(1972\roportional Hazards model  We argue that the dissimilarity might be superficial.  One of the most obvious differences is that ANN usually avoids probabilistic modeling, however, the ANN models can be analyzed and estimated from a statistical point of view, as demonstrated by Neal \(1999\, Ripley \(1994\, \(1996 Robert & Casella \(2004\What is more interesting is that the most hailed feature of ANN, i.e., the identifiability of model structure, if one review carefully, is very similar to the work done in survival anal ysis for the structure of the 


 16 Cox proportional hazards model. The multilayer ANN model, also known as back-propagation ANN model, is again very similar to the stratified proportional hazards model  There are at least two advantages of survival analysis over the ANN.  \(1\val analysis has a rigorous mathematical foundation. Counting stochastic processes and the Martingale central limit theory form the survival analysis models as stochastic integral s, which provide insight for analytic solutions. \(2\ ANN, simulation is usually necessary \(Robert & Casella \(2004\which is not the case in survival analysis  Our conjecture may explain a very interesting phenomenon Several studies have tried to integrate ANN with survival analysis.  As reviewed in the next section, few of the integrated survival analysis and ANN made significant difference in terms of model fittings, compared with the native survival analysis alone The indifference shows that both approaches do not complement each other.  If they are essentially different, the inte grated approach should produce some results that are signifi cantly different from the pure survival analysis alone, either positively or negatively Again, we emphasize that our discussion is still a pure conjecture at this stage   3   B RIEF C ASE R EVIEW OF S URVIVAL A NALYSIS A PPLICATIONS     3.1. Applications Found in IEEE Digital Library  In this section, we briefly review the papers found in the IEEE digital library w ith the keyword of survival analysis  search. The online search was conducted in the July of 2007, and we found about 40 papers in total. There were a few biomedical studies among the 40 survival-analysis papers published in IEEE publications. These are largely standard biomedical applications and we do not discuss these papers, for obvious reasons  Mazzuchi et al. \(1989\m ed to be the first to actively  advocate the use of Cox's \(1 972\ proportional hazards model \(PHM\in engineering re liability.  They quoted Cox's 1972\ original words industrial reliability studies and medical studies to show Cox's original motivation Mazzuchi et al \(1989 while this model had a significant impact on the biom edical field, it has received little attention in the reliability literature Nearly two decades after the introducti on paper of Mazzuchi et al 1989\ears that little significant changes have occurred in computer science and IEEE related engineering fields with regard to the proportional hazards models and survival analysis as a whole  Stillman et al. \(1995\used survival analysis to analyze the data for component maintenance and replacement programs Reineke et al. \(1998 ducted a similar study for determining the optimal maintenance by simulating a series system of four components Berzuini and Larizza \(1996 integrated time-series modeling with survival analysis for medical monitoring.  Kauffman and Wang \(2002\analyzed the Internet firm su rvival data from IPO \(initial public offer to business shutdown events, with survival analysis models  Among the 40 survival analysis papers, which we obtained from online search of the IEEE digital library, significant percentage is the integration of survival analysis with artificial neural networks \(ANN In many of these studies the objective was to utilize ANN to modeling fitting or parameter estimation for survival analysis.  The following is an incomplete list of the major ANN survival analysis integration papers found in IEEE digital library, Arsene et 2006 Eleuteri et al. \(2003\oa and Wong \(2001\,  Mani et al 1999\ The parameter estimation in survival analysis is particular complex due to the requirements for processing censored observations. Therefore, approach such as ANN and Bayesian statistics may be helpful to deal with the complexity. Indeed, Bayesian survival analysis has been expanded significantly in recent years \(Ibrahim, et al. 2005  We expect that evolutionary computing will be applied to survival analysis, in similar way to ANN and Bayesian approaches  With regard to the application of ANN to survival analysis we suggest three cautions: \(1\he integrated approach should preserve the capability to process censoring otherwise, survival analysis loses its most significant advantage. \(2\ Caution should be taken when the integrated approach changes model struct ure because most survival analysis models, such as Cox's proportional hazards models and accelerated failure time models, are already complex nonlinear models with built-in failure mechanisms.  The model over-fitting may cause model identifiability  problems, which could be very subtle and hard to resolve 3\he integrated approach does not produce significant improvement in terms of model fitting or other measurements, which seemed to be the case in majority of the ANN approach to survival analysis, then the extra complication should certainly be avoided. Even if there is improvement, one should still take caution with the censor handling and model identifiability issues previously mentioned in \(1\ and \(2  3.2. Selected Papers Found in MMR-2004  In the following, we briefly review a few survival analysis related studies presented in a recent International Conference on Mathematical Methods in Reliability, MMR 2004 \(Wilson et al. 2005  Pena and Slate \(2005\ddressed the dynamic reliability Both reliability and survival times are more realistically described with dynamic models. Dynamic models generally refer to the models that incorporate the impact of actions or interventions as well as thei r accumulative history, which 


 17 can be monitored \(Pena and Slate 2005\he complexity is obviously beyond simple regression models, since the dependence can play a crucial ro le. For example, in a loadsharing network system, failure of a node will increase the loads of other nodes and influences their failures  Duchesne \(2005\uggested incorporating usage accumulation information into the regression models in survival analysis.  To simplify the model building Duchesne \(2005\umes that the usage can be represented with a single time-dependent covariate.  Besides reviewing the hazard-based regression models, which are common in survival analysis, Duchesne 2005\viewed three classes of less commonly used regression models: models based on transfer functionals, models based on internal wear and the so-called collapsible models. The significance of these regression models is that they expand reliability modeling to two dimensions. One dimension is the calendar time and the other is the usage accumulation.  Jin \(2005\ reviewed the recent development in statisti cal inference for accelerated failure time \(AFT\odel and the linear transformation models that include Cox proportional hazards model and proportional odds models as special cases. Two approaches rank-based approach and l east-squares approach were reviewed in Jin \(2005\. Osbo rn \(2005\d a case study of utilizing the remote diagnostic data from embedded sensors to predict system aging or degradation.  This example should indicate the potential of survival analysis and competing risks analysis in the prognostic and health management PHM\ since the problem Osborn \(2005 addressed is very similar to PHM. The uses of embedded sensors to monitor the health of complex systems, such as power plants, automobile, medical equipment, and aircraft engine, are common. The main uses for these sensor data are real time assessment of th e system health and detection of the problems that need immediate attention.  Of interest is the utilization of those remote diagnostic data, in combination with historical reliability data, for modeling the system aging or degradation. The biggest challenge with this task is the proper transformation of wear  time The wear is not only influenced by internal \(temperature, oil pressures etc\xternal covariates ambient temperature, air pressure, etc\, but also different each time   4  S UMMARY AND P ERSPECTIVE   4.1. Summary  Despite the common foundation with traditional reliability theory, such as the same probability definitions for survival function  S  t  and reliability  R  t  i.e  S  t  R  t well as the hazards function the exact same term and definition are used in both fields\rvival analysis has not achieved similar success in the field of reliability as in biomedicine The applications of survival analysis seem still largely limited to the domain of biomedicine.  Even in the sister fields of biomedicine such as biology and ecology, few applications have been conducted \(Ma 1997, Ma and Bechinski 2008\ the engin eering fields, the Meeker and Escobar \(1998\ monograph, as well as the Klein and Goel 1992\ to be the most comprehensive treatments  In Section 2, we reviewed the essential concepts and models of survival analysis. In Section 3, we briefly reviewed some application cases of survival analysis in engineering reliability.  In computer science, survival analysis seems to be still largely unknown.  We believe that the potential of survival analysis in computer science is much broader than network and/or software reliability alone. Before suggesting a few research topics, we no te two additional points  First, in this article, we exclusively focused on univariate survival analysis. There are two other related fields: one is competing risks analysis and the other is multivariate survival analysis The relationship between multivariate survival analysis and survival analysis is similar to that between multivariate statistical analysis and mathematical statistics.  The difference is that the extension from univariate to multivariate in survival analysis has been much more difficult than the developm ent of multivariate analysis because of \(1\rvation cens oring, and \(2\pendency which is much more complex when multivariate normal distribution does not hold in survival data.  On the other hand, the two essential differences indeed make multivariate survival analysis unique and ex tremely useful for analyzing and modeling time-to-event data. In particular, the advantages of multivariate survival analysis in addressing the dependency issue are hardly matched by any other statistical method.  We discuss competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis in separate articles \(Ma and Krings 2008a, b, & c  The second point we wish to note is: if we are asked to point out the counterpart of survival analysis model in reliability theory, we would suggest the shock or damage model.   The shock model has an even longer history than survival analysis and the simplest shock model is the Poisson process model that leads to exponential failure rate model The basic assumption of the shock model is the notion that engineered systems endure some type of wear, fatigue or damage, which leads to the failure when the strengths exceed the tolerance limits of th e system \(Nakagawa 2006 There are extensive research papers on shock models in the probability theory literature, but relatively few monographs The monograph by Nakagawa \(2006\s to be the latest The shock model is often formulated as a Renewal stochastic process or point process with Martingale theory The rigorous mathematical derivation is very similar to that of survival analysis from counting stochastic processes  which we briefly outlined in section 2.6  It is beyond the scope of the paper to compare the shock model with survival analysis; however, we would like to make the two specific comments. \(1\Shock models are essentially the stochastic process model to capture the failure mechanism based on the damage induced on the system by shocks, and the resulting statistical models are 


 18 often the traditional reliability distribution models such as exponential and Weibull failure distributions.  Survival analysis does not depend on specific shock or damage Instead, it models the failure with abstract time-to-event random variables.  Less restrictive assumptions with survival analysis might be more useful for modeling software reliability where the notions of fatigue, wear and damage apparently do not apply.  \(2\hock models do not deal with information censoring, the trademark of failure time data.  \(3\ Shock models, perhaps due to mathematical complexity, have not been applied widely in engineering reliability yet.  In contrast, the applications of survival analysis in biomedical fields are much extensive.  While there have been about a dozen monographs on survival analysis available, few books on shock models have been published.  We believe that survival analysis and shock models are complementary, a nd both are very needed for reliability analysis, with shock model more focused on failure mechanisms and the survival analysis on data analysis and modeling  4.2. Perspective   Besides traditional industrial and hardware reliability fields we suggest that the following fields may benefit from survival analysis  Software reliability Survival analysis is not based on the assumptions of wear, fatigue, or damage, as in traditional reliability theory.  This seems close to software reliability paradigm. The single biggest challenge in applying above discussed approaches to softwa re systems is the requirement for a new metric that is able to replace the survival time variable in survival analysis. This "time" counterpart needs to be capable of characterizing the "vulnerability" of software components or the system, or the distance to the next failure event. In other words, this software metric should represent the metric-to-event, similar to time-toevent random variable in survival analysis.  We suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(Li and Vitanyi 1997\n be a promising candidate. Once the metric-to-event issue is resolved, survival analysis, both univariate and multivariate survival analysis can be applied in a relative straightforward manner. We suggest that the shared frailty models are most promising because we believ e latent behavior can be captured with the shared fra ilty \(Ma and Krings 2008b  There have been a few applications of univariate survival analysis in software reliability modeling, including examples in Andersen et al.'s \(1995\ classical monograph However, our opinion is that without the fundamental shift from time-to-event to new metric-to-event, the success will be very limited. In software engineering, there is an exception to our claim, which is the field of software test modeling, where time variable may be directly used in survival analysis modeling  Modeling Survivability of Computer Networks As described in Subsection 2.3, random censoring may be used to model network survivability.  This modeling scheme is particularly suitable for wireless sensor network, because 1\ of the population nature of wireless nodes and \(2\ the limited lifetime of the wireless nodes.  Survival analysis has been advanced by the needs in biomedical and public health research where population is th e basic unit of observation As stated early, a sensor networ k is analogically similar to a biological population. Furthermore, both organisms and wireless nodes are of limited lifetimes. A very desirable advantage of survival analysis is that one can develop a unified mathematical model for both the reliability and survivability of a wireless sensor network \(Krings and Ma 2006  Prognostic and Health Management in Military Logistics PHM involves extensive modeling analysis related to reliability, life predictions, failure analysis, burnin elimination and testing, quality control modeling, etc Survival analysis may provide very promising new tools Survival analysis should be able to provide alternatives to the currently used mathematical tools such as ANN, genetic algorithms, and Fuzzy logic.  The advantage of survival analysis over the other alternatives lies in its unique capability to handle information censoring.  In PHM and other logistics management modeling, information censoring is a near universal phenomenon. Survival analysis should provide new insights and modeling solutions   5  R EFERENCES   Aalen, O. O. 1975. Statistical inference for a family of counting process. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Berkeley  Andersen, P. K., O. Borgan, R D. Gill, N. Keiding. 1993 Statistical Models based on Counting Process. Springer  Arsene, C. T. C., et al. 2006.  A Bayesian Neural Network for Competing Risks Models with Covariates. MEDSIP 2006. Proc. of IET 3rd International Conference On Advances in Medical, Signal and Info. 17-19 July 2006  Aven, T. and U. Jensen. 1999. Stochastic Models in Reliability. Springer, Berlin  Bazovsky, I. 1961. Reliability Theory and Practice Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey  Bakker, B. and T.  Heskes. 1999. A neural-Bayesian approach to survival analysis. IEE Artificial Neural Networks, Sept. 7-10, 1999. Conference Publication No 470. pp832-837  Berzuini, C.  and C. Larizza 1996. A unified approach for modeling longitudinal and failure time data, with application in medical mon itoring. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. Vol. 18\(2 123 


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


