 1 Cross-layer Mitigation Techniques for Channel Impairments Eugene Grayver, Joseph Kim, Jiayu Chen, Eric McD onald, Alexander Utter, James Hant, and David Kun The Aerospace Corporation Jiayu.Chen@aero.org  Abstract 227Next-generation communications satellite constellations will use advanced radio frequency \(RF technologies to provide Internet protocol \(IP\switched high-speed backbone transport services for various user communication applications, with ever-increasing traffic demand. These applications range from data services to imagery, voice, video, and other potential emerging applications. Satellite uplinks and downlinks may endure 
channel impairments that have fades of varying durations due to weather, communications on the move \(COTM blockages, scintillation, terrestrial multipath, or jamming Satellite payloads and ground terminals must be able to mitigate this wide range of impairments and optimize the use of available spectrum to deliver the highest possible data rates while maintaining a required quality of service QoS\ite of mitigation techniques\227including channel interleaving and forward erro r correction \(FEC physical layer, dynamic coding and modulation \(DCM\and automatic repeat request \(ARQ\ the data link layer, and 
application codec adaptation ACA\ the application layer\227has been proposed for various channel fades. Since each mitigation strategy coul d potentially interact with another, it is essential not only to assess the performance of each mitigation technique, but also to understand how multiple cross-layer techniques work together 1 2  This paper describes an emulation study of channel impairment mitigation using a combination of dynamic modulation \(DM\ARQ, and ACA for various channel fades. A real-time emulation test bed was established by integrating Satellite-to-Terminal Real-time Ethernet Configurable Hardware \(STRETCH\d SAtellite Link 
EMulator \(SALEM\est beds, both of which are unique capabilities developed in-house at The Aerospace Corporation. STRETCH provides modulation/demodulation, coding interleaving, and various types of channel fading. SALEM implements a range of mitigation techniques, such as ARQ, DM, and ACA. ARQ retransmissions are triggered in the absence of acknowledgment, DM is invoked upon SNR changes, and ACA is called when the available data rate changes. Results show that DM and ACA successfully mitigate channel fades of longer durations. Faster fa des with fluctuating channel gains but a steady SNR average over a given time window do not trigger DM, but endure bit errors and packet drops caused by instantaneous low SNR values. ARQ 
retransmissions successfully mitigate these types of channel   1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE  2 IEEEAC paper #1402, Version 3 Updated November 5, 2008 fades. This paper presents descriptions of the test bed architecture, mitigation techniques, test scenarios, and test results T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION  1  
2  E MULATION C APABILITIES  3  3  C ROSS L AYER E RROR M ITIGATION  5  4  C ONCLUSION  8  R EFERENCES  8  B IOGRAPHY 
 8  1  I NTRODUCTION  One of the major goals of future military communication systems is to provide command, control, and communication for mobile terminals anywhere and anytime A key element of this evolution is to provide Internet-like transport architecture amongst widely deployed fixed and mobile nodes that communicate over satellite links, as depicted in Figure 1. Most wireless links must contend with channel fades and limited bandwidth.  Unlike most terrestrial wireless links, satellite links have unique properties, such as large propagation delays, which may 
negatively affect the upper-layer protocols and degrade endto-end quality of service \(QoS\erformance of user applications  Figure 1 \226 Future Military Communication A variety of techniques \(e.g., FEC, channel interleaving and ARQ\itigate satellite channel impairments, but it has not been clear what effect these mechanisms will have on uppe r-layer protocols and enduser applications. Therefore, it is crucial to evaluate the cross-layer performance of these mitigation techniques before they are deployed 


 2 Satellite-to-Terminal Real-time Ethernet Configurable Hardware \(STRETCH\nique capability developed inhouse at The Aerospace Corporation.  STRETCH combines standard Ethernet interfaces with a highly programmable software-defined radio \(SDR e wireless channel emulator. SAtellite Link EMulator \(SALEM also a unique capability de veloped in-house at The Aerospace Corporation that inco rporates the properties of satellite links into real-time network emulations. SALEM provides software-based channel emulation and link layer error mitigation techniques \(e.g., DM, ARQ\ure 2 shows the architecture of th e integrated test bed for emulating a future military communication scenario shown in Figure 1. Figure 3 shows the picture of the integrated test bed In order to evaluate the performance of cross-layer mitigation techniques, we employed Agilent N2X TM a piece of commercial test equipment that generates and analyzes packets. Standard network-laye r metrics such as packet loss ratio \(PLR\latency, and throughput were measured and compared. Then, a real-time video streaming application was used to demonstrate in real time the effect of a combination of various mitigation schemes. Section 2 describes the emulation test bed architecture and capabilities in detail, and Section 3 presents various test scenarios and results. Section 4 concludes the paper  Figure 2 \226 Architecture of Integrated Test Bed DELAY \(PacketStorm VIDEO SERVER SALEM2 SALEM1 VIDEO CLIENT SALEM O&M PacketStorm DISPLAY SALEM O&M DISPLAY VIDEO SERVER  DISPLAY VIDEO CLIENT  DISPLAY STRETCH CONTROLLER Packet Generator and Network Analyzer Agilent N2X  Figure 3 \226 Picture of Integrated Test Bed 


 3 2  E MULATION C APABILITIES  STRETCH STRETCH provides on-the-fly configurability to facilitate performance assessment under various communication scenarios. Equipped with 10/100/1000 Mbps Ethernet ports STRETCH allows a user to send and receive Ethernet packets. Each arriving packet is converted into a modulated waveform within a software-defined transmitter, then sent into a hardware model of channel impairments including fading and/or noise, and finally demodulated by a softwaredefined receiver for Et hernet packet data recovery. A very wide range of waveforms \(BPSK \226 64QAM\and data rates 1 kbps \226 40 Mbps ted. Additionally, forward error correction \(e.g., Reed-Solomon, Viterbi, Turbo LDPC, etc.\nterleaving, and encryption are all supported Four software-defined radio modules implemented in STRETCH emulate bit-true bi-directional terminal-toterminal satellite communication with a bent-pipe or processed payload satellite and up to four independent fading channels. Figures 4 and 5 show the architecture and picture of STRETCH, respectively   Figure 4 \226 Architecture of STRETCH  Channel Emulator 227Channel emulator applies realistic impairments to the transmitted waveform in real time. Both flat and frequency-selective \(multipath\ fading models are supported.  The channel emulator is implemented using a combination of software and hardware, with the channel coefficients computed in so ftware and applied to the waveform in hardware \(Figur e 6 built-in support for a range of channel scenarios such as line-of-sight, urban environment, nuclear scintillation, and also allows external models to be imported via precomputed data files  Figure 6 \226 Channel Emulator  Transceiver\227 The transceiver is described in  and shown schematically in Figure 7. The transceiver software interprets an Extensible Markup Language \(XML description of a waveform to configure the hardware Waveforms can be reconfigured in a few milliseconds, as described in  Ethernet interface\227 The Ethernet interface as depicted in Figure 8 provides a link between physical-layer waveforms and payload data over the sta ndard network interface.  The data bits are buffered, framed, and then sent to the transceiver.  The interface m onitors buffer levels in the transceiver and generates appropriate flow control packets to avoid overflows SALEM SALEM provides physical-layer capabilities, such as software-based channel emul ation \(e.g., AWGN, nuclear scintillation, blockage, etc.\d link-layer capabilities, such as link-layer error mitigation techniques \(e.g., ARQ delayed-n-copy, etc.\namic modulation control application codec control, and packet segmentation  Fi g ure 5 \226 Picture of STRETCH 


 4 reassemb architecture of SALEM integrated with STRETCH. Since STRETCH provides hardware-based highe r-fidelity channel emulation and transceiver capabilities, SALEM\222s channel emulation capability is bypassed. In Figure 9, the gray box surrounding the two SALEM nodes and a STRETCH node represents a bidirectional satellite link \(i.e., terminal-toterminal link in Figure 1\ node runs on a dedicated computer and the STRETCH node runs on an FPGA board as shown in Figure 5. A Gigabit Ethernet interface connects these nodes. In the integrated test bed, a DELAY node is inserted between SALEM2 and STRETCH, as shown in Figure 2. The Delay node emulates the propagation delay incurred at the satellite up and down links \(250 msec ARQ\227 ARQ is a link layer error mitigation technique based upon packet retransmission. The following description is relevant to the forward channel depicted in Figure 9. The same logic applies to the return channel. When ARQ is Bit Source   Includes the user data headers r=1:1 b=128 r=N:K b~256 r=L:M b=NA r=L:M b=16384 External off-chip FEC r=log 2 N:N b=log 2 N b=[16...2048 R=Q:1 I,Q out I, Q in   After AGC derotation timing tracking r=P:1   Soft decision output for both LLR and FHT r=M:L b=NA r=M:L b=16384 External off-chip FEC r=K:N b~256 r=1:1 b=128 Bit Sink   Strip off the user data headers   Generates reset to all blocks on the first synch after loss of lock   E.g. DVB-S2 or NASA LDPC   e.g. DVB-S2 or NASA LDPC r=1:P b=N/A r=1:1 b=NA r=1:1 b=NA  Figure 7 \226 RF Transceiver  Name Level Data Link 2 Physical 1 Network Layer  Figure 8 \226 Ethernet Interface 


 5 enabled, ARQ-TX in SALEM2 inserts a unique sequence identifier \(SID\ every pack et before forwarding it to ARQ-RX in SALEM1. ARQ-RX in SALEM1 transmits an acknowledgment \(ACK\e for every packet it receives To be accurate, the received packet is called a link-layer LL\e since the format of the original packet was altered by inserting a SID. If ARQ-TX in SALEM2 does not receive an ACK frame for a predetermined retransmission interval, ARQ-TX retransmits the unacknowledged frame. Retransmission is attempted up to a predetermined limit Dynamic modulation and application codec adaptation 227 STRETCH constantly monitors the signal-to-noise ratio SNR\channel and periodically reports the channel SNR values to the dynamic modulation controller in SALEM1 via a control interf ace \(a gray arrow in Figure 9\DMC in SALEM1 then creates and sends a channel report \(CR\ containing the channel SNR to SALEM2 Based upon the received CR, DMC in SALEM2 determines whether to change the current modulation to a more robust mode or a less robust mode, or to stay at the same mode. If the DMC decides to change the mode, the DMC reconfigures the modulation of the forward channel via a control interface. The control interface uses standard XML files to provide waveform description.  If a change in modulation results in the change in the available bandwidth the DMC notifies the ACC, which in turn sends a control message to the VIDEO SERVER to change the application codec so it meets the available bandwidth VIDEO SERVER / CLIENT Video LAN Client \(VLC\ware runs in both VIDEO SERVER and VIDEO CLIENT, as shown in Figure 2. VLC is an open-source media player that integrates a variety of video/audio encoding standards and provides capabilities of transcoding and streaming over netw  In order t o  quantitatively assess the quality of the incoming video stream, an Aerospace-proprietary metric called Video Quality Indicator \(VQI\plemented in VLC Additionally, a codec control interface was implemented in VLC to receive a control message from SALEM to dynamically change the application codec 3  C ROSS L AYER E RROR M ITIGATION  Cross-layer error mitigation tests were performed in two configurations: one with Agilent N2X\231 and the other with a realtime streaming video application The following subsections will describe in detail the test scenarios, including the channel model, various physical-, link and application-layer parameters and corresponding results Performance Evaluation with N2X Traffic Analyzer Figure 10 illustrates the test bed employing N2X. In this test, N2X generates a stream of UDP packets at the rate of 1 Mbps. The packets generated by N2X are sent in sequence to SALEM2, DELAY, STRETCH, SALEM1, and then received by N2X for analysis. N2X then measures PLR latency, and receiving throughput RxRate\types of fading channel models were used: short fades and long fades, as listed in Table 1. In each model, the channel SNR keeps changing linearly \(tria ngle waveform\ween the minimum and maximum values according to the corresponding duration SALEM2 STRETCH SALEM1 STRETCH Controller SALEM O&M DELAY CONTROL Agilent N2X  Figure 10 \226 Test Bed with N2X Table 1. Fading Channel Model Model Max SNR Min SNR Duration Short Fade 35 dB 17 dB 5 sec Long Fade 35 dB 17 dB 30 sec  Table 2 presents the test resu lts with N2X. In the cases where DM was off, 16QAM modulation was used. For ARQ, the retransmission interval was set to 550 msec and the maximum retransmission was 7 In Case 1.1, about 14% of packets did not survive the fading channel while the SNR was low, which resulted in a lower RxRate. Both average and maximum latencies reflect the propagation and processing delays SALEM 1 SALEM 2 Segmentation ARQ-Tx ARQ-Rx ReAssembly ReAssembly ARQ-Rx ARQ-Tx Segmentation Fading Channel Modulation Coding Interleaving DMC ACC DMC ACC ACK Transmit Receive SNR CMD Link Bandwidth Link Bandwidth ACK Transmit Receive ACC: Application CODEC Control DMC: Dynamic Modulation Control FORWARD CHANNEL RETURN CHANNEL SNR CMD CR CR Figure 9 \226 Integrated Architecture of SALEM and STRETCH 


 6 In Case 1.2, the modulation automatically adapts to the current SNR which significantly reduced the packet losses. In fact, 1.05% of packet losses all occurred during the mode change. If the packet losses that occurred during the mode change are eliminated \(requiring a minor software fix 0 In Case 1.3, DM was disabled and ARQ was enabled instead. Despite ARQ\222s retransmission attempts \(up to 7 7% of packets were lost. This demonstrates that during long fades, even 7 retransmissions were not enough to save those 7% of packets. The average latency of 951 msec indicates each packet is retransmitted about 1.3 times on average Note that the propagation delay is 250 msec and each retransmission adds 550 msec to the latency since the retransmission interval is 550 msec. Therefore, the average number of retransmissions is roughly estimated as \(951250\550 002 1.3. The maximum latency reflects the maximum number of retransmissions plus processing time and queuing delays. Compared to Case 1.1, the ARQ scheme reduced the PLR by about 50% at the cost of increased latency In Case 1.4, both DM and ARQ were enabled. Most of the packets made it through the fading channel, and the small number of packets dropped during the mode change was recovered by ARQ, which resulted in zero PLR. The increases in the average and maximum latencies compared to those from Cases 1.1 and 1.2 were due to retransmission of lost packets during the mode change In Cases 2.1 through 2.4, the channel fluctuated much faster than in the previous cases. Case 2.1 lost about 11% of packets, which is comparable to case 1.1 In Case 2.2, despite the DM scheme, about 9% of packets were lost. This was because it took some time for the DM scheme to measure the current SNR and determine a new modulation until the new modula tion was in effect, which took at least one round-trip time \(500 msec\Therefore, DM was not able to keep up with the channel In both cases 2.3 and 2.4, the ARQ scheme effectively recovered all of the lost packets caused by channel fades Case 2.4 achieved smaller latencies with the help of DM RxRate in Case 2.4 \(0.94 Mbps\urned out to be less than expected and thus needs further investigation Performance Evaluation with Real-Time Video Streaming In this scenario, cross-laye r performance of DM, ARQ, and ACA techniques is evaluated using a real-time streaming video application. The configuration presented in Figure 2 was used in this emulation. A VLC application running at VIDEO SERVER transmits an MPEG4-encoded video stream at the rate of 875 kbps to another VLC application running at VIDEO CLIENT via SALEM2, DELAY STRETCH, and SALEM1 nodes in sequence. A VLC application at VIDEO CLIENT displays the incoming video together with MPEG frame statistics. Note that in this emulation, the SNR was manually lowered to a certain level to emulate a channel fade Table 3 shows the test results from various cases. Each case was defined by a combination of DM, ARQ, and ACA options and an SNR value. The data rate in the table indicates the measured data rate by VIDEO CLIENT. VQI ranges between 0 and 100. The higher the VQI value, the better the quality of the video. In the following discussion, a frame refers to an MPEG frame, not a link-layer frame Initially, SNR was set to 36 dB and modulation was set to 16 QAM. Case 3.1 shows the result with the initial setup Since no frames were lost in this case, the result indicates the best-case scenario, as captured in Figure 11 \(a In Case 3.2, the noise level was increased to make SNR=18.1 dB and DM was not yet enabled. Since DM was not enabled, the modulation remained at 16 QAM, which caused more than 50% of the pack ets to be lost, as the data rate of 344 kbps and the frame rate of 10 fps indicate. The Table 2. Test Results with N2X Case ID Channel Fade DM ARQ PLR  RxRate Mbps Avg. Lat msec Max. Lat msec 1.1 Long OFF OFF 14.07 0.83 252 253 1.2 Long ON OFF 1.05 0.99 253 255 1.3 Long OFF ON 7.05 0.91 951 5568 1.4 Long ON ON 0 1.0 328 1317 2.1 Short OFF OFF 11.27 0.84 252 253 2.2 Short ON OFF 8.83 0.82 253 255 2.3 Short OFF ON 0 0.98 1528 3506 2.4 Short ON ON 0 0.94 1188 3144 Table 3. Test Results with Real-Time Streaming Video Case ID DM ARQ ACA SNR Modulation Data Rate Kbps Frame Rate FPS Avg. Frame Size \(Byte VQI Case 3.1 OFF OFF OFF 36 dB 16 QAM 873 31.2 2661 100 Case 3.2 OFF OFF OFF 18.1 dB 16 QAM 344 10.0 2126 45.4 Case 3.3 ON OFF OFF 18.1 dB QPSK 580 19.8 2144 51.9 Case 3.4 ON OFF ON 18.1 dB QPSK 579 29.9 1349 89.4 Case 3.5 ON ON ON 18.1 dB QPSK 628 33.6 1448 99.8 


 7 VQI dropped down to 45.4 and th e video was unintelligible as captured in Figure 11 \(b Case 3.3 enabled DM, and thus the modulation was switched to QPSK. In this case, since QPSK is more robust even with an SNR level of 18 1 dB, more packets survived as indicated by the data rate of 580 kbps and the frame rate of 19.8 fps. However, now the bandwidth of the channel was reduced by 50% and thus a lot of packets were still dropped, resulting in video quality that was still very poor This is indicated by a VQI of 51.9 and the screen capture in Figure 11 \(c Therefore, in Case 3.4, the application codec was commanded to reduce the data rate by half, which is reflected in the average frame size shortened by half. The VQI then significantly improved to 89.4 as well as the quality of the video, as shown in Figure 11 \(d\me packets were still lost, however, due to imperfect channel conditions and thus we turned on ARQ in Case 3.5 ARQ\222s retransmission mechanis m adds more packets onto the channel upon packet losses and thus we doubled the channel bandwidth without changing the modulation in Case 3.5. According to Table 3, the data rate and the frame rate in Case 3.5 are about 10% larger than those from Case     b c   d e Figure 11 226 Screen Captures from VLC CLIENT a  


 8 3.4, which reflects ARQ\222s recove ry of lost packets. Average frame size indicates that the a pplication codec generates the same streaming rate. The VQI improved to almost 100 and the quality of the video was also almost perfect, as shown in Figure 11 \(e\e that Case 3.1 captured better video quality than did Case 3.5 even though their VQI values are almost the same. This is because in Case 3.5 the video was generated in a lower resolution mode to achieve a lower data rate, which is reflected in the smaller average frame size in Case 3.5  In the emulation scenario with real-time video streaming, a combination of all three mitigation techniques significantly improved the quality of a streaming video over a certain noise level 4  C ONCLUSION  In this paper, we introduced a real-time emulation test bed by integrating STRETCH and SALEM, both of which are unique capabilities developed in-house at The Aerospace Corporation. Using this test bed, various combinations of three mitigation techniques DM, ACA, and ARQ were applied to a stream of raw UDP packets and a real-time streaming video. The test results demonstrate that a combination of DM and ACA works well with long durations of channel fades However, for a fading channel of short duration, the DM and ACA requiring SNR measurements do not adapt fast enough to mitigate the impairments. ARQ, however, works well in this scenario when lost frames can be retransmitted. In the real-time streaming video test, the combination of all three techniques achieved the best performance R EFERENCES   E Grayver and P Dafesh, \223Multi-Modulation Programmable Transceiver System with Turbo Coding,\224 IEEE Aerospace, Big Sky, MT, 2005   E M c Donal d R Speel m a n, E. Gray ver,  and N. W a gner 223Real-Time Hardware/Softw are Approach to Phase Noise Emulation,\224 IEEE Aerospace, Big Sky, MT, 2006  J. Kim  J. Hant, and V. Swam inathan 223Real-Tim e Emulation of Internet Applications over Satellite Links Using the SAtellite Link EMulator \(SALEM\AIAA San Diego, CA, 2008   VideoLAN- VLC m e dia play er, http://www.videolan.org   E Gray ver, J. C h en, and A. Ut t e r, \223Appl i cat i on-l a y e r Codec Adaptation for Dynamic Bandwidth Resource Allocation,\224 IEEE Aerospace, Big Sky, MT, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Eugene Grayver received a BS degree in electrical engineering from Caltech and a PhD degree from UCLA in 2000. He was one of the founding team of a fabless semiconductor company working on low-power ASICs for multi-antenna 3G mobile receivers.  In 2003 he joined The Aerospace Corporation, wher e he is currently working on flexible communications pl atforms.  His research interests include reconfigurable implementations of digital signal processing algorithms, adaptive computing, lowpower VLSI circuits for communications, and system design of wireless data communication systems. Lately, he has been concentrating on the interaction between nonlinear amplifiers and modern error correction codes.  He is also participating in the software-defined radio community trying to define a common configuration standard and determine optimal partitioning between software and hardware  Dr. Joseph Kim received a BS degree in computer science from Seoul National University, Korea, and a PhD degree in electrical & computer engineering from University of California, Irvine in 1988 and 1998, respectively. He joined The Aerospace Corporation in July 2005 His current responsibilities incl ude architecture, design development, and integration of SAtellite Link EMulator SALEM\advanced space communication and networking pr otocols and applications under various satellite channels with interference. He has been supporting the Transformational Satellite Communications System \(TSAT\he Global Positioning System III programs. Prior to joining The Aerospace Corporation, he wo rked for several companies including several start-ups. The areas of work included HomePNA, HomePlug, WiFi, WiBro, ATM, CDMA2000 Satellite Digital Multimedia Broadcasting \(DMB\eoon-Demand \(VOD Service \(QoS\DVD/VCD Encoder/Decoder, MPEG, real-time scheduling and resource allocation, etc  Dr. Jiayu Chen received his BS degree in electrical engin eering from National Taiwan University in 1981. He received his MS and PhD degrees, both in electrical engineering from the University of Southern California USC\in 1983 and 1986, respectively He joined The Aerospace Cor poration in July 2005. His responsibilities include various satellite communication networking areas such as network protocols, QoS resource management, routing, etc. Prior to joining The Aerospace  


 9 Corporation, he worked for AT&T Labs \(formerly AT&T Bell Labs\for 19 years as a Senior Technical Specialist. He played an important role in the transformation of the AT&T telephony network including dynamic routing evolution and circuit switching to packet switching transition. His work included voice over IP \(VoIP\network architecture dynamic routing, numbering planning, network integration and testing. He received nine US patents as a result of his work at AT&T Labs. At USC, his research area included optical and radar target detection and medical applications of robotics  Dr. Eric McDonald received his BS degree in electrical engineering from the University of Pittsburgh in 1998, where he studied VLSI design. He continued his education at Cornell University and received his PhD in electrical and computer engineering in 2004. He focused on methods for synthesizing low-power analog circuits using floating-gate transistors while also gaining a breadth of knowledge in networking as well as asynchronous and synchronous digital design. He joined The Aerospace Corporation\222 s Digital Communication Implementation Department in November 2005 Alex Utter received a BSE degree from Harvey Mudd College in 2005, and an MS degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 2007. He joined The Aerospace Corporation in 2007.  His areas of expertise include software and hard ware design for digital electronic systems, especially design of FPGA- and microprocessor-based systems Dr. James Hant received a BS degree in biomedical engineering from the University of California, at San Diego \(UCSD\in 1993 and MS and PhD degrees in electrical engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles UCLA\in 1996 and 2000 respectively. From June 2000 to June 2001, he was a Systems Software Engineer at Conexant Systems in Newport B each, CA, designing and implementing speech recogniti on software for internet applications. He joined the Aerospace Corporation in June 2001, where he has worked on the simulation, modeling and design of satellite communication systems. Dr. Hant\222s research interests include networking, satellite payload design, and speech signal processing David Kun received his B.S. and M.S degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities and the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign, respectively. Prior to joining The Aerospace Corporation in 2006, he worked as a system engineer and later as a design/test engineer for Northrop Grumman Space Technology. His research interests include signal detection and estimation theory, FPGA hardware prototyping of digital signal processing algorithms, and software defined radios    All trademarks, service mark s, and trade names are the property of their respective owners  


SPARQL query discussed in more detail in Section 6 has retrieved the SEAS Plane model information for a particular F-15 instance gure  Mvlititary Asset utnology A number of other military ontologies also exist The MilOrg ondology describes military and related political organizations as well as particular Roles they play in military affairs Tasks they are required to perform and specialized military Actions that perform them MilGeo defines a military perspective on geography with emphasis on terrain polpulation and cultural features of interest to military operations MilGeo contains classes that describe military facilities including Forts Airbases NavalPorts and Forward Operating Locations The MilSit ontology describes Conflicts Campaigns Missions Plans and similar concepts It also defines exactly what constitutes a situation and classifies various types of situations Specialized ontologies relating to military information and communications exist and may be imported in some cases to provide increased detail for those concerns Finally to support military Modeling and Simulation applications the MilSim ontology provides a platform for importing relevant ontologies for a particular study or exercise and a location to create concepts peculiar to individual simulations 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


