Fast Talking, Fast Shooting: Text Chat in an Online First-Person Game   Susan C. Herring, Daniel O. Kutz, John C. Paolillo, and Asta Zelenkauskaite Indiana University, Bloomington herring,dokutz,paolillo,azelenka}@indiana.edu   Abstract   How actively do users chat, with whom, about what, and how coherently, when they are shooting enemies and dodging bullets in a fast-paced virtual gaming environment? This paper reports on a study of public text chat in BZFlag, an open source capturethe-flag game in which user avatars are tanks. Chat data were analyzed using methods of content and dis 
course analysis, including analyzing the coherence of extended conversations. The findings reveal that public chat is used actively in BZFlag, primarily to react to and negotiate game play, and that extended conversations occur intermittently and are surprisingly coherent. Implications are discussed for multitasking, classifying multiplayer online games, and enhancing the chatability or chat usability, of first-person shooter game designs  1. Introduction  In recent years, multiplayer online games \(MOGs have generated much popular and scholarly interest [3 15, 18, 19 of te n a llo w us ers to ch at du ri ng play, either via voice or, more commonly, synchronous text. However, while a number of studies have com 
mented on this phenomenon, it has rarely been their focus, with the result that the uses and characteristics of MOG chat remain largely unexplored MOG chat deserves study for a number of reasons First, it is a type of convergent media computermediated communication computer-mediated communication \(CMC\hat takes place in a convergent media format in which it is secondary, by design, to other information or entertainment-related activities  In th e cas e of MOG ch at, th e prim a r y act i v i t y i s  game play; MOGs are designed first and foremost with 
that in mind. Focusing squarely on the chat aspect rather than game design or game play can provide a revealing lens through which to understand CMC more generally, as well as suggesting design improvements from a CMC perspective that may be less obvious from a game design perspective Relatedly, playing a game and chatting at the same time involves multitasking, or media coactivity 2  which two or more synchronized or coordinated media are used simultaneously or in alternation. How users distribute their attention across media content, espe 
cially in MOGs in which game play is fast-paced and continuous, can shed light on how multitasking works and what devices and platforms best facilitate it These considerations are especially relevant for text chat that takes place in first-person online multiplayer games of the type commonly called first-person shooters FPS\his game type can be distinguished from massively multiplayer online role-playing games MMORPGs\ a number of dimensions, one of which, we propose, is the nature of the chat that takes 
place in them. While chatting in MMORPGs has attracted some scholarly attention th e  uses and characteristics of chat in first-person online multiplayer games are less well understood. How actively do users chat, with whom, about what, and how coherently, when they are shooting enemies and dodging bullets in a fast-paced virtual gaming environment To begin to address these questions, we report on an analysis of public text chat conversations in BZFlag an open source capture-the-flag type game in which user avatars are tanks and text chat is the only in-game communication option. Methods of textual content and 
discourse analysis, supplemented with reference to game play in the 3D graphical environment, are used to analyze chat logs from two kinds of league play The results reveal that public chat is used actively in BZFlag, primarily to react to and negotiate game play. These uses of chat reflect the fast pace of the first-person shooter, which requires players to focus on the game at all times. As such, they contrast with the findings of previous studies of MMORPGs, in which chat was reportedly used for creating and maintaining social relationships [15, 20   a d ve r t i s i ng o r ne go t i a t i n g  
serv en tdri v e n learn i ng 16]. Yet although most BZFlag chat is not interactive, it is social in nature, and extended chat exchanges occur intermittently that are surprisingly coherent, especially in active games with larger numbers of players. These findings show that sociability can be achieved even when attentional resources are severely taxed, and suggest that socializing can be a motivation for multitasking Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


In concluding, the implications of these findings for situating FPS chat in relation to other modes of convergent media CMC and for multitasking research are considered. We advance several design recommendations for enhancing the chatability or chat usability, of MOGs such as BZFlag, arguing that the traditional CMC design desideratum of persistence is less useful for fast-paced environments than interface designs that optimize the efficient management of attention across multiple, dynamically-changing content areas  2. Background  2.1. BZFlag game overview  BZFlag \(short for Battle Zone capture the Flag\a multiplayer online first-person shooter game in which players navigate tanks, from a first-person person perspective, across a playing field, referred to as a map. A map can support up to 200 players and four separate teams; however, games usually involve around 30 players divided between two teams. Game play broadly consists of eliminating players from the opposing team a task that is typically part of an overarching game objective, such as capturing an opposing team s flag and returning it to one s own team. To assist in this goal, players can pick up superflags flags that are scattered across the map and provide special powers such as better weapons or faster movement speed Unlike FPSs such as Doom  Counter-Strike  Jedi Knight II and Quake BZFlag is open source. Players can not only download and play the game for free, they can also view and submit changes to the source code The maps on which game play takes place are also developed by players; they vary in thematic content from traditional venues \(such as a forest\whimsical venues such as outer space or a person s home. Upon logging into the game, one can choose from hundreds of servers and maps, but participants tend to congregate around a handful of servers that contain maps that have become player favorites over time BZFlag was first released publicly in 1993 and has been continuously updated since. Currently, there are more than 11,000 registered players on forums and more than 200 servers running continuously, although most interaction takes place on 10 to 20 servers. Some dedicated players have formed leagues with established game play rules and maps. Play in leagues emphasizes the use of skills and map knowledge, usually identified through strategic positioning and the use of ricochet shots which rely on the geometry of objects on the playing field to direct bullets around obstacles to predictable destinations Game play requires the player to divide his attention \(most BZFlag players are male\ among six different dynamic areas of the screen. These are circled and numbered in Figure 1, which shows a screenshot of the playing field on one map. Navigation is accomplished by moving one s mouse within the square central mousebox 4\whose outer edges are scales indicating the player s current position and orientation. In the lower left corner, a radar screen \(#6\ives a bird s-eye overview of the map and the positions of teammates and opponents. Chat appears at the bottom center of the screen \(#5\g with game play status messages such as recent kills and flags grabbed\The most recent chat and important status messages also appear briefly at the top center of the screen \(#1\ the top left \(#3\dividual player scores are listed \(the player s userID and email are on the right, and various scores in different columns are on the left\while team scores \(flag captures\ appear near the top right \(#2  Figure 1. BZFlag game interface  The BZFlag game design results in a hectic, fastpaced gaming experience. New players find themselves quickly targeted and eliminated in one or two shots by more experienced players. However, player death does not result in elimination for the duration of the game Instead, one only needs to press a mouse button in order to respawn at a randomized starting location with a new tank, ready to re-engage in battle  2.2. Literature review  2.2.1. MMORPGs  Research on chat in online games has focused primarily on massively multiplayer online role-playing games \(MMORPGs\ch as Everquest  Ultima  Online  and World of Warcraft These are computer-generated graphical virtual environments in which a player creates a digital avatar \(called a character\with which s/he interacts with other players characters in a shared space. Content is usually rendered in a third person Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


view, and the environment presents a distinctive theme for example, fantasy or science fiction\ression or advancement in the game is driven by receiving upgrades, items, and new powers on one s characters these upgrades accumulate over game play sessions The attraction of participating in a MMORPG, for many players, is its social nature. Steinkuehler and Williams ok i n g Olde n b u r g  aracteris tics of third places argue that MMORPG environments serve as bridging mechanisms supporting informal sociability, similar to traditional social venues such as bars and coffee shops. Game play in these environments is structured to promote collaboration by providing incentives to work with other participants By participating in brief or extended collaborations players engage in a process of socialization and learning ers  m a y als o ch oos e to participate in  online gaming, drawn to the idea of being alone together as opposed to simply being alon Although MMORPGs are visually and auditorily rich environments, the dominant form of player-toplayer communication is text. Steinkuehl observed that chat utterances in Lineage Online are cryptic and filled with contextual abbreviations. Nardi, Ly and Harris aracterized ch at in  World of Warcraft as playful and enlivened by positive emotional interaction. The scope, quality, and attributes of textual communication in MMORPGs also vary depending on the environment. For example, Ducheneaut and Moore  erv e d th at in  Star Wars Galaxies player chat ranged from advertising, short interactions, and the exchange of services to longer meaningful exchanges depending on the location within the game The above research suggests that the features that unite textual communication in the various MMORPG environments are its promotion of socializing and the creation and maintenance of social ties through ongoing textual communication among participants  2.2.2. First-person shooters  In contrast, the first person shooter \(FPS\enre is characterized by direct competition with other players In each game session, players start out on an equal footing; it is play skill, awareness of the environment and effective teamwork that primarily distinguish experienced players from rookies FPS environments are less persistent than MMORPGs. Once game play in an FPS has finished the world is reset to the state it was in at the start of play, or a new environment \(e.g., playing field\ made available. In contrast, MMORPG worlds are persistent meaning that there is only one environment in which players participate, and this environment can evolve over time based on player actions or other environmental factors programmed by the game designers. This evolution can proceed in phases, by continuously following a game narrative or by responding to player input. In FPSs, in contrast, game play tends to be active, continuous, and focused on a single overall goal As in MMORPGs, chat in FPSs tends to be textual Wright et h eir ex a m in at ion o f creati v e  player action in Counter-Strike identified and coded five general categories of discourse: creative game talk, game conflict talk, insult/distancing talk, performance talk, and game technical/external talk. The predominant categories were game conflict talk \(banning of players, cheat accusations, camping accusations and game performance talk \(related to performance scores, recent kills, and game strategy n i n e n and Kujanp al y zed f o r m s of i n teractio n i n  Battlefield 1942 another FPS. They found that communication primarily takes place via predefined voice and text messages, with text chat used mostly to elaborate on these predefined utterances These studies findings suggest that chatting in FPSs is closely tied to the game itself; the creation and maintenance of social ties and socializing is not as incessant and ubiquitous  in MMO R P Gs Ho w ever, a study of another FPS Jedi Knight II found that socioemotional communication was more frequent than task-based communication reov er, p o sitiv e  socioemotional communication, acting as a tension release, was three times more prevalent than negative socioemotional communication [18  su gge st i n g t h a t  friendly socializing was taking place Relatedly, in a study of cooperation and disruptive behavior in Counter-Strike Hahsler and Koch found that 50% of the logged communication contained emotional content \(either negative or positive Gameplay communication, such as strategy coordination communicated via short utterances, was the second most popular category, making up 25% of the captured player communication One limitation of the available research is that it tends to consider chat utterances essentially as independent units, without analyzing their relation to one another or the overall coherence of chat exchanges. As a consequence, the conversational properties of MOG chat of either type or even the extent to which chat utterances exchanged during game play should be considered conversation remain largely unknown  3. Research question and hypotheses  The overall research question addressed in this study is the following RQ: How actively do players in a in a fast-paced virtual gaming environment chat, with whom, about what and how coherently Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


We hypothesize that time and attentional constraints will affect the nature of chat in BZFlag. Specifically H1: Messages will be short and abbreviated, moreso than in other modes of recreational chat H2: Participation in chat will be limited H3: Most messages will be on themes relating to game play H4: Most chat messages will not respond to any other message, and conversations will be short and fragmented, relative to other modes of recreational chat  4. Methodology  4.1. Data  The data for this study are drawn from Games United \(GU\eague games played on servers hosted by a player named Quol and publicly posted to his server archive website. The GU league is a semiformal association of BZFlag players who organize teams to play official and fun i.e., unofficial matches involving teams of 2 to 20 players on a specific map. GU league rules prohibit superflags, but make use of BZFlag s jumping and ricochet settings. Games are two- or four-team capture the flag mode games only two-team games are analyzed in this study Games are timed, lasting precisely 30 minutes of playing time, although the clock may be paused The GU league has an international player base with especially large numbers of players in Europe and the United States. At the time of our data collection in November 2007, over 2,000 games were available in the archives, dating back to February, 2007. Since the game files are publicly posted, we needed only to set up a server configured to replay saved games in order to view them as many times as desired Use of these data also imposes certain limitations We can only view the games as observers, which means we can only see public chat; admin\(istrator team, and private chat channels are inaccessible Moreover, the data are all from a single game mode and a single map, and GU league games typically involve fewer players than are found on public servers Thus the findings of this study may not generalize to BZFlag games on public servers Two samples of chat were constructed for the purposes of this study. To represent typical GU league game chat, we collected a random sample \(~10%\f all games \(N=378\n a two-month period in fall 2007 and extracted a systematic sub-sample of 25-message sequences from the resulting 37 random games, for a total of 900 messages. This is referred to henceforth as the random sample or random games To represent the most active chat, we collected an exhaustive sample of all active games with 15 or more participants \(N=12 these are referred to henceforth as the active games   4.2. Analytical methods  The chat data were analyzed using methods of content and discourse analysis that drew for their interpretation on game play in the 3D graphical environment We replayed the video logs of the games multiple times, viewing them from different players perspectives, in order to understand what chat utterances were responding to and how they should be interpreted The first two methods involved straightforward structural measures. To determine the complexity of the chat, message and word lengths were measured in the random game sample. It was assumed that short words and short messages, relative to other modes of chat \(such as Internet Relay Chat or social MUDs would indicate a low degree of complexity. To answer the question of how actively players chat, we measured messages per player and per second and compared the results for random and active games To address the question of what players were chatting about, it was necessary to study the video logs of the games, since utterances often addressed game play actions. We employed thematic content analysis to classify and count the main theme of each chat message in a random portion of the random sample. The themes were allowed to emerge from the data. The themes that emerged were: react to game play; negotiate game play; off-game topic; greet; respond to a game play reaction; comment on a technical problem or the technical status of a player; and other The video logs also proved valuable in analyzing the interactivity and coherence of the chat, particularly for the information they provided about timing. Often the difference in coding an utterance as a response to another or not depended on how much time had elapsed between the two utterances: if more than a few seconds, given the fast pace of the game, the utterances were usually unrelated. The percentage of messages that responded to another chat message was first calculated and then compared for random and active games Finally, Dynamic Topic Analysis \(DTA d VisualDTA w e re e m plo y e d to an al y z e an d g r aph i cally display the coherence of the conversations that occurred during the active games. DTA is a method for identifying and quantifying message interrelatedness over time; it visually represents the flow and coherence of online conversations. VisualDTA is a tool that partially automates the generation of DTA diagrams. DTA has been used to visualize other modes of chat [8, 9  i n g  f o r co m p aris ons  w i t h BZFlag c h at  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


5. Results  5.1. Complexity of chat  The chat messages in the random sample are very short: only 1.4 words on average. By way of comparison, in previous studies, recreational \(multi-participant Internet Relay Chat messages were found to average 4 to 6 words d m e s s a g e s in a s o cial MUD a v eraged 6 to 7 words in groups of three or more participants and 10 to 14 words in dyads  Words in the random sample are also short, with an average of 3.5 characters. In previous English chat studies, words average around 4 characters  T h is  may seem like a small difference, but it is not, considering that English words tend to average less than 5 characters even in formal written \(asynchronous\course  Contributing to the brevity of BZFlag chat messages is the frequent use of cryptic abbreviations, many of which are specific to the game. Table 1 is an example of a joking exchange based on the use of game-specific abbreviations for superflags 2   Table 1. Example of a chat exchange Time PlayerID Message 18:39:05 grand slam who has OO 18:39:27 menotume i have sb 18:39:36 grand slam get WG or T 18:39:50 menotume would prefer st  In this example OO stands for oscillation overthruster  a superflag that enables a tank to go through walls sb  stands for superbullets a superflag that allows one to shoot through walls WG means wings and T means tiny both useful superflags to defend against superbullets\d st stands for stealth a superflag that makes one invisible on radar A number of other game-specific abbreviations were noted in non-joking contexts, as well \(see below along with many common CMC abbreviations \(such as lol, omg, brb, thx, afk, wtf gl hf - good luck have fun \(used as a greeting fm - fun match offi - official ns - nice shot cap - \(flag\ture tk - team kill sk - self-kill nr - not responding obs, obsies - observers gg - good game    2 Given that GU league games do not have superflags, this exchange is clearly intended to be humorous The use of abbreviation can be seen as an effective strategy to communicate under extreme time pressure using minimal keystrokes. Thus, while the chat is structurally very simple, it is simple in a strategic way  5.2. Participation in chat   Surprisingly, most players engaged in public chat despite the availability of other chat channels that might serve their teams more effectively \(such as team chat\nd the fact that typing chat messages necessarily takes time and effort away from shooting enemy tanks In the random sample, which averaged 7.8 players per game, 90% of the players posted at least one public chat message. In the active sample, which averaged 16.3 players per game, 84% of the players chatted publicly. The average number of messages posted per chatter was similar in the two samples: 12.7 in the random sample \(range: 1 to 47\ and 12.9 in the active sample range: 1 to 77 messages As regards the rate of chatting activity, in the random sample, a public chat message was posted every 14.8 seconds on average, whereas in the active sample a public message was posted every 10.1 seconds While this may seem slow, most players also chat with their teams and/or privately, in addition to playing the game. Thus, the level of activity in the public chat channel can be considered moderate, with more chatting taking place in games with more participants  5.3. Chat message content  In order to analyze the content of the messages that were posted during game play, thematic analysis of the players' chat was conducted for part of the random sample. Table 2 summarizes the findings  Table 2. Thematic content of chat messages React to game play Negotiate game play Offgame topic Greet Respond to reaction Tech problem status Other Total 156 55 3 18 26 15 2 275 56.7 20 1.1 6.5 9.5% 5.5% 0.7 100  The majority of the messages \(56.7%\ere reactions to game play. This use is illustrated in the sequence in Table 3 3 which is typical. The second most frequent chat content involved negotiation of game play \(20 followed by responses to reactions to game play 9.5%\These uses are described further below   3 Time intervals in Table 3 suggest that most of the reactions were responding to separate game play events \(time stamps were added by the researchers  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Table 3. Examples of reactions to game play 2:46:27 tankzilla works 2:46:54 Ginny oopsa 2:47:36 Ginny rofl 2:47:37 A Vicious Muffin hehe 2:47:54 A Vicious Muffin uh.. \(after G shot A her teammate 2:48:02 A Vicious Muffin lol 2:48:22 tankzilla ROFLMAO 2:48:30 A Vicious Muffin  2:48:31 anteater ops 2:48:36 anteater cool 2:48:36 A Vicious Muffin lol 2:48:37 Ginny wierd 2:48:51 tankzilla nah 2:49:14 A Vicious Muffin gah 2:49:54 A Vicious Muffin harumph 2:51:06 tankzilla smsh 2:51:49 tankzilla oh that sucked  5.4. Extended chat sequences  Despite most chat utterances being one-word exclamations in reaction to game play, longer, interactive sequences of messages also occurred. In the random sample, 40% of messages responded to another message, and thus were at least minimally interactive. In comparison, in the active game with the most interactions, 47% of messages were responses The distribution of extended exchanges in the same active game is shown in the VisualDTA diagram in Figure 2. In the diagram, message numbers \(assigned by the researchers based on chronological order of posting\ are along the y-axis, and the x-axis shows the cumulative semantic distance between messages, manually assigned according to the degree a message relates to the message to which it is logically responding Each message is also labeled for its topical relation to a preceding message: T \(narrowly on-topic\ \(parallel shift\, or B \(break\. By convention, T s always have a semantic distance of 0, and B s always have a distance of 4 from the first message in the sample. Strings of T s or B s thus produce a vertical line, whereas diagonal lines are produced by P s, which can have a semantic distance from 1 to 3, and indicate that topical development is taking place [8 P r ev iou s res earch h a s  shown that coherent conversations in Internet Relay Chat and instant messaging, when visualized in DTA tend to exhibit a diagonal step-wise progression from upper left to lower right [8, 9  In contrast, Figure 2 shows an overall vertical development \(produced largely by reactions to game play, which are mostly B s\his is interrupted by intermittent exchanges, which appear as branching structures \(circled\ the vertical line. The topics of the exchanges are labeled to the right of the diagram   Figure 2. Overview of public chat in an active game  It is notable that the exchanges seem to occur at regular intervals, and that they are approximately the same length \(about 25 messages\uggesting constraints on how much interaction is possible during active game play. Within these constraints, however the exchanges that occur can be surprisingly complex and coherent  Figure 3 shows a close-up of the second exchange labeled negotiating game play in Figure 2. This exchange is notable for the efficiency with which the number of players per team is renegotiated after two players leave the game. Despite the potential confusion caused by three parallel threads \(labeled in Figure 3 game play was resumed with a new team configuration in only 25 messages and approximately one minute this transition was accomplished entirely through chat Note the frequent use of abbreviations in this exchange g2g, brb, gg, 6v6, cu, fm, k  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  Figure 3. A sequence negotiating game play   Another remarkable sequence is shown in Figure 4. While game play is actively ongoing, a player engages with two other players over a period of two minutes regarding living conditions in Switzerland where he is thinking of moving. With the exception of the game play reactions in the background, this conversation is as coherent as any dyadic instant messaging exchange, in that it is continuous and progresses in a diagonal, step-wise fashion h is s e q u en ce is  unique in our data, in that it is the only conversation that is purely social and unrelated to the game    Figure 4. A coherent off-topic sequence  Figure 5. Deviant game with a cheating episode  Another exception is shown in Figure 5. In this active game, a player called The Cookie Monster was caught in an alleged act of cheating, although the nature of the cheat was somewhat ambiguous, and not all of the players saw it happen. A flurry of questions attempts to describe what happened, and accusations followed the initial incident. Predictably, after about 25 chat messages, a player attempted to restart game play the clock had been paused after the suspicious incident\t the restarted game soon encountered a glitch that led to another negotiation, and the same thing happened again shortly thereafter. In the meantime, the cheating incident continued to be discussed, culminating eventually in a string of apologies followed by some silly word play \(which seemed to be an expression of relief\ore game play resumed nearly 100 messages after the original incident This is an exception that proves the rule, in that when the normal pattern reactions to game play interspersed with brief exchanges was disrupted, a seProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


quence of redressive actions followed. Through it all other players attempted to preserve the implicit norm of chat exchanges no longer than 25 messages, and sought repeatedly \(and eventually, successfully\ to return to normal game play  6. Discussion  This study asked how actively users chat, with whom, about what, and how coherently, in one fastpaced FPS gaming environment. The hypotheses and the study s findings are summarized below H1: Messages will be short and abbreviated, moreso than in other modes of recreational chat Strongly supported H2: Participation in chat will be limited Not supported H3: Most messages will be on themes relating to game play Supported H4: Most chat messages will not respond to any other message, and most conversations will be short and fragmented, relative to other modes of recreational chat Partially supported. Stretches of one-off game reactions are periodically interspersed with more coherent, interactive sequences The findings that chat messages are short and abbreviated and that most chat concerns the game itself either as comments on events in the game or negotiation of gameplay reflect the temporal and attentional demands that the game makes on players. It seems that shooting tanks and chatting at the same time is not easy to do. As one long-time BZFlag player emailed to one of the authors I usually play while talking, and I usually get killed while I'm typing However, he went on to add For some reason it doesn't bother me too much - and I've found that the people I'm talking to sometimes get killed while typing too This comment underscores that chatting in BZFlag is an activity that may be enjoyed for social reasons, even when it interferes with effective game play  The social gratifications available through game chat may also explain why players chat publicly as much as they do, even though it gains them little advantage in the game. The player quoted above stated I find it a bit boring to play too much, but the one thing I've really enjoyed is the text chat. With the right people on a map, it can be hilarious  Sometimes hilarity emerges from the exchange of cryptic utterances, as in the example in Table 1. Sometimes one-off reactions to one s own game play \(Table 3\ be a sociable way to be alone together   And sometimes actual conversations take place, which although they tend to be limited in scope, can be engaging and unexpectedly coherent These findings reflect to some extent the specific game play features of BZFlag. One such feature is that when the need to stop game play arises, players must indicate this via the chat interface. For example, if a player wishes to bring another player into the game as a substitute, he announces his intention in the chat interface and asks the other participants to pause their game play. The game is paused when all participants cease ongoing hostilities and remain at their current position in the playing field. This feature provides an incentive for players to monitor the chat display more regularly than they might otherwise, lest they miss this important signal. Regular attention, in turn, helps to explain the relatively high degree of coherence some conversations in BZFlag chat achieve Another feature is that when a player is eliminated he is not removed for the duration of the remaining game; instead he respawns with a new tank. As a result of this, a player is constantly engaged in action and does not have an extended period of free time during which to communicate with his team, the opposition or observers of the game. In other FPSs \(e.g CounterStrike  America s Army yer death results in removal from game play for the remaining duration of the round. This puts a player in observer mode and allows him to view the rest of the match as a spectator, during which time he may engage in conversation with other spectators. The design of BZFlag thus leaves less time than other FPS games for chat, which may contribute to the abbreviated, task-focused character of chat in the game More generally, these differences could account for why our study found less social activity than some other studies of FPS ch e v e r, it is al s o  possible that our results are less different from theirs than they seem. What was coded as socioemotional  communication in other studies appears to be similar to what we coded as game play reactions see Table 3 If so, then the findings of studies of chat in FPSs are in fact quite consistent; taken together, they underscore the need to distinguish systematically between MMORPGs and FPSs in MOG chat research  7. Conclusions  7.1. Implications   In addition to providing evidence that supports a principled distinction between MMORPGs and FPSs which is important for game research, the present study contributes to a small but growing body of research Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


that seeks to understand and classify types of convergent media computer-mediated communication CMCMC\milar to other CMCMC such as comments posted to YouTube and Flickr and text messages sent from mobile phones to interactive television programs \(iTV SMS FP S ch at tak e s place in a v i sually engaging environment in which textual commenting/chat is secondary to the presentation of graphical content. In these environments, CMC consists mostly of one-off comments interspersed periodically with interactive exchanges, in which responses tend to reply to an immediately preceding message. FPS chat differs from other CMCMC, however, in that messages tend to focus on the stated purpose of the site \(the game\her than digressing onto other topics. Public chatting in BZFlag is also more interactive than comments posted to Flickr, YouTube, or iTV SMS. These differences can be attributed to the demanding nature of FPS game play and the smaller \(and thus more manageable\ber of participants in the game environment The study s findings have implications for multitasking research, as well. It has been claimed that the continuous partial attention required by multitasking causes errors due to insufficient attention [11 A c ti v i t y  interruption can also result in frustration and stress  In con t ras t th e BZF l a g res u lts  s ugg es t t h at f o r some users who chat while playing the game, the attention they allocate is largely sufficient for each task. For these successful multitaskers, factors such as youth and experience with the interface may favor success. For others, as suggested by the long-time player quoted above, the social benefits may outweigh the frustration and cost of making errors in game play indeed, a desire for social interaction may be what motivates BZFlag players to play and chat at the same time in the first place. These findings suggest perspectives that could be explored in research on multi-tasking in other, e.g., work, environments [11    7.2. Design recommendations   In a classic treatise on computer game design Crawfo u e d th a t un derl y i n g  techn i cal co n straints and possibilities strongly influence game play design and the resultant player experience. We suggest that the designed game environment also plays a role in shaping the quality and structure of chat discourse, and that chat usability, or chatability should be a design desideratum in MOGs, given that chatting is a major reason some online gamers play Past research suggests that persistent, reviewable text logs can promote interactional coherence in CMC 6 w e v e r, it see m s u n li k e l y th a t  m a k i n g B Z Fla g  chat more persistent would increase its coherence or usability, in that the pace of game play does not allow players to devote much attention to chat, regardless of how it is displayed or preserved 4  In FPSs, what is more important than textual persistence is the arrangement of the interface so as to optimize the efficient management of attention across multiple dynamic content areas. Research on multitasking suggests that gameplay and chat activity should be balanced so that one activity does not interrupt the other, to avoid frustration and stress T h e BZ F l a g  designers have attempted to do this: Chat is displayed next to the radar view, and both are immediately below the mousebox \(Figure 1\s players may keep the three most important areas in focal or peripheral vision at all times. However, the chat interface sometimes serves primarily as a peripheral information device; at those times, it would be helpful to minimize its distraction while maximizing its presentation of information  t oth e r ti m e s  t h e pres e n ce of co h e ren t continuous chat sequences suggests that the chat interface is the main locus of attention and would be better served by a more prominent representation. Enabling a player to toggle the chat interface between a peripheral and prominent state would be one possible solution to meet these variable needs Chat in BZFlag, like other multiparticipant CMC also suffers from disrupted adjacency of messages that are separated spatially from the messages to which they respon d co m m e n t s on  g a m e pla y are s p a tially and \(by the time they are posted\ temporally separated from the game play itself. To provide closer integration of these key activities and reduce the amount of attention shifting that players must do, chat messages could appear \(non-persistently\ above the tanks that posted them, as well as in the chat interface Finally, opportunities for communication without distraction in BZFlag are rare. If the designers of BZFlag wished to create an environment within the game that was conducive to socializing \(which, we argue, could increase the attractiveness of the game environment\hey could establish an area, such as a lobby, where players could congregate before and after games and chat in a more relaxed manner, without having to worry about their gameplay performance  7.3. Limitations and future research   This study examined public text chat in one league in one first-person shooter game. Team chat, private chat, and admin chat were not accessible, yet they are used to coordinate important activities, such as server   4 The BZFlag interface already gives players considerable control over the size of the chat window and the size of fonts, as well as allowing players to filter out different types of messages Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


maintenance and catching and sanctioning cheaters Moreover, game play and chat in the GU league differ from public server play, in that GU league play emphasizes teamwork and cooperation among players over individual prowess, whereas in public server play, individual differences in skill and the advantages of superflags can result in the appearance of unfair advantage, leading to taunting and complaining. These limitations could be addressed by analyzing a wider range of BZFlag activities and contexts Analysis of chat in other MOGs is also necessary in order to test the claim that chat differs systematically in MMORPGs and FPSs. Although the present study was limited to text chat, in-game voice chat is a growing trend in MOGs. Future research should analyze audio conversations, so as to determine the effects of modality on in-game chatting. Other methods, such as eye tracking, could also be used to investigate empirically how user attention is distributed dynamically across features of game interfaces Finally, the methods used in this study could be extended to non-gaming environments in which chat cooccurs with other media use. This would provide a broader comparative base from which to generalize about chat and chatability in coactive media  8. References  1 C h e r ny L  1999 Conversation and community: Chat in a virtual world Stanford, CA: CSLI 2 Crawf o r d  C. \(1 9 8 4   The art of computer game design  Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill  Du ch en eau t N  M o o r e R  J 2 0 0 4   T h e so cial sid e o f  gaming: A study of interaction patterns in a massively multiplayer online game Proceedings of CSCW 2004 NY ACM  Du ch en eau t  N  Yee N  Nickell E   M o o r e R J  2006\. "Alone together?": exploring the social dynamics of massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 5 H a hs le r, M K o c h S. \(20 0 4  p e r a tio n a nd dis r uptive behaviour - Learning from a multi-player internet gaming community. In P. Kommers, P. Isaias, & M. B. Nunes Eds IADIS International Conference Web Based Communities 2004 pp. 35-42\ Lisbon: IADIS 6 Herrin g S. C  1 9 9 9 a  ter actio n a l co h e ren ce i n CMC  Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 4 1 http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol4/issue1/herring.html 7 H e rring S. C  1 99 9b T h e rhe t oric a l dy nam i c s of  g e nde r harassment online The Information Society, 15 3\, 151-167 8 H e r r i ng S. C   200 3 D y nam i c topic a n a l y s is o f sy nchronous chat. In New Research for New Media: Innovative Research Methodologies Symposium Working Papers Minneapolis: U Minn School of Journalism and Mass Comm http://ella.slis.indiana.edu/~herring/dta.2003.pdf 9 H e rring S C K u r t z  A  J  20 06 V i s u a liz ing D y na m ic Topic Analysis Proceedings of CHI 06 NY: ACM  1 Ko K-K 19 96   S t ru ct u r al ch aracteristics o f co m p u t ermediated language: A comparative analysis of InterChange discourse Electronic Journal of Communication, 6 3 http://www.cios.org 11 L o je sk i, K S Re illy R  Dom i nic k P  2 00 7 u ltitasking and innovation in virtual teams Proceedings of HICSS-39 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 12  Ma g lio P P   Ca m pbe ll, C. S 2 0 00 T r a d e o ff s in displaying peripheral information Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  New York: ACM 13 Ma n n i n e n T  K u ja np   T  2005 T h e hunt f o r c o llaborative war gaming - CASE: Battlefield 1942 Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research 5 1\ http://www.gamestudies.org/0501/manninen_kujanpaa 14 Ma rk G G udith, D  K l oc k e U  200 8 h e c o s t of  interrupted work: More speed and stress Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 15 N a rdi, B H a rris  J  2006 ng e r s a nd f r ie nds  Collaborative play in World of Warcraft Proceedings of CSCW 2006 pp. 149-158\ew York: ACM 16 N a rdi, B L y S H a rris   J  20 07 e a r ning c onv e r sations in World of Warcraft Proceedings of HICSS 40 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 17 O l de nb ur g  R   1 9 89  The great good place: Cafes coffee shops, bookstores, bars, hair salons and other hangouts at the heart of a community NY: Paragon Books 18  P e a J   H a nc oc k  J  T  20 06 A n a n a l y s is of s o cioemotional and task communication in online multiplayer video games Communication Research, 33 1\, 92-109 19  Ste i nk ue hle r  C 2 0 06 M a ssiv e l y  m u ltipla y e r online  videogaming as participation in a discourse Mind, Culture and Activity, 13 1\, 38-52 20 Ste i nk ue hle r C W illia m s D. \(200 6 h e r e e v e r y body knows your \(screen\me: Online games as "third places Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 11 4\://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol11/issue4/steinkuehler.html 21 W i k i pe dia  2 0 0 8  J une 15  Coactive media  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coactive_media 22 W r ig ht, T Boria  E Bre ide nba c h  P. \(20 02 Cre a tive player actions in FPS online video games: Playing Counter-Strike Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research, 2 2\ http://www.game studies.org/0202/wright 23  Ze le nk a u s k a ite A  H e rri ng S. C  2 00 8 T e le v i s i onmediated conversation: Coherence in Italian iTV SMS chat Proceedings of HICSS 41 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


