CitiScape Architecture for eGovernment Effectiveness Vasudha Gupta, Farha Mukri, Jay Ramanathan, Rajiv Ramnath, Kelly Yackovich CERCS for Enterprise Transformation and Innovation Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, The Ohio State University guptavas, mukri, jayram, ramnath, yackovic}@cse.ohio-state.edu   Abstract We introduce CitiScapes, an architectural concept that enables implementers of eGovernment systems to organize capabilities and dynamically present the services to match the context of the citizen and other 
stakeholders in an effective and efficient manner CitiScapes addresses the underlying challenges due to the complexities of change in organizational structures and business processes, presentation of thousands of objects and services, and the integration of information systems supporting these aspects.  We present examples based on our design experiences working with a large US city and evaluate the CitiScapes concept with respect to existing award winning eGovernment websites.  We show how a CitiScapesbased eGovernment web presence can lead to increased usability, navigability, and performance for users as well as enhanced maintainability for administrators  1 
 Introduction  As cities and other government organizations evolve from the current generation of websites, they are faced with both complexity and opportunity. The complexity arises due to thousands of legacy objects and content reflecting information provided by silo departments, the number of different departments and the diversity in their capabilities, large amounts of information \(like the one-stop call center records\at could be of potential value to other public and private organizations, and, finally, incomplete understanding 
of citizen needs.  Here we present a widely-applicable citizen-oriented conceptual architecture, called CitiScapes based on the ongoing development of a specific City website Government web sites, which up until a few years ago provided limited info rmation to the citizens, are now attempting to progress to higher-and-higher levels and goals  1  Information presentation of static material such as publications and information about the services provided by the government agency. This 
information is seen as packaged by the agency with only limited possibilities to interact with the Web site 2  Interaction represented by services such as searching in databases, ordering printed publications, downloading and ordering forms relating services and subscribing to newsletters  3  Transaction includes picking up and leaving personal information related to the services provided by the agency as well as initiating and following up on the status of services 
 4  Integration of services between agencies and departments.  This is the realization of a one-stop government that, regardless of organizational boundaries, provides services at one point of entry even where several agencies are involved  5  Life Events brings a higher level of interaction and integration to citizens by addressing their needs, i.e. Live, Work, Raise a Family. This level includes personalization and customization of 
services and interfaces  6  Transformational Beyond transforming government services through technology, the goal is to create and retain the capacity to innovate and use technology effectively as technology itself develops, enabling yet more ambitious goals to be set and accomplishe   Due to the underlying complexity, however, the evolution of a site to higher levels is not easy. Citizen expectations are high but project costs are not predictable.  User experience must also be considered 
At the same time, newer trends are emerging that change the way sites have to be designed.  For example, Internet savvy users are more likely to use searches than existing site navigation schemes.  Many of the goals and aspirations of eGov portals are identified in  The opportunity enabled by the CitiScapes architecture presented here leverages the next Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


generation of eGov technologies and powerful content management systems \(CMS\ to 1\provide dynamic context-driven services for both citizens and stakeholders and 2\eet critical user experience goals and achieve the following benefits    Quick access to services and focus on what is needed rather than how the departments work   Integrated services presented to match the life events and roles of users   Push of information relevant to the user   Intelligence mining to achieve transformations based on insight into performance   Trust based on role-based controlled sharing of information   Increased re-use and maintainability through localizing impact of change  Our objective in this paper is to present a systematic methodology for constructing portals \(tool sets for organized knowledge discovery at achieve both the organization s goals and user experience  2  Background in Research and Best Practices  In this section we will 1\ examine the requirements met by award winning web-sites, 2 identify underlying requirements, and 3\show how we can build on existing best practices and research to achieve our objective  2.1 Attributes of Award winning sites  A competitive analysis of award winning websites has helped us identify the existence of important requirements and objectives in providing the desired user experience.  The eGov websites that are successful according to the Center for Digital Governmen and popular among citizens are the ones which have organized their services around the citizens rather than their departments. They concentrate on helping citizens with varied interests find what they are looking for by connecting them with the appropriate services or information in the least amount of time. We know that these websites, because of the recognition process, are the ones perceived by citizens as the most helpful in meeting their needs; thus these sites are the best examples of those that meet higher levels of eGovernment goals as discussed in the introduction The recognition of these sites is based on goals such as      Targeting different user groups This involves identifying the different user groups who would interact with the portal and provide them with the appropriate view of information and services.  The goal is to create satisfaction within every user group, that the agency is committed to addressing their problems and needs   Seamless integration between public and private sectors The citizen who visits the portal for accessing a particular service should not be bogged down by the details of whether the service is public or private.  For a citizen, the goal should be to achieve a one-stop portal which would address all the issues that the citizen may have in each context, regardless of service location    Simple and logical user interface Even if relevant services and information are present complex or difficult interfaces will preclude their use.  So, the goal is to design simple and logical interface for the purpose of encouraging adoption as well as ongoing use    Good search Providing good search capabilities is necessary to get the citizens to find the relevant information with minimal effort, thereby increasing satisfaction   2.2 Underlying Requirements  The types of requirements exhibited by these award winning sites    Identification of roles The information and services provided must be organized in a structured manner depending on the role and circumstance of the user interacting with the system.  For example, typical user groups or roles will include residents, visitors, businesses government, police, city council etc.  This ensures that the portal presents a view of the information that is most relevant, and also that the user is authorized to se Ex a m ple ch aracterization s  of user groups appear in d in ex i s ti n g eGovernment websites such as [12    Identification of context and life-events The context of the user is captured in order to project services which are most applicable.  For example instead of viewing healthcare as a governmental department, the portal provides healthcare as a service which is relevant to the citizen with that need.  Expanding on this notion further, we can identify the life event in the user s context that caused the user to come to the website.  Examples of life events include getting a job, having a child losing a loved one, moving, retiring, getting Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


married, buying/selling property, health or crime events, and more   Using right levels of abstraction A citizen interacting with the portal for accessing a particular service should not be bothered with having to find out whether the service is private or public and which department is offering that service. Thus, the right level of abstraction is needed which hides the unnecessary details Again, this is achieved by providing a citizencentric landscape of services as opposed to a government-centric departmental view of the information and services   Providing information in multiple ways The relevant information must be accessible even though different paths might be taken.  For example, in the City of Aurora portal [14  Animal Care is accessible to the residents through navigation paths of Information or eServices but it is also accessed through Neighborhood Services    Focus on giving more than what s currently needed but not more than what s necessary This increases user satisfaction by going a step beyond what the citizen currently requests and giving them what they might need next.  In the Aurora City o r ex a m ple, t h e u s er  accessing the portal as a visitor to the city is also given information needed to move into the city housing, utility services, etc.\wever, the information is organized such that additional details are provided only if the user is interested in them. This avoids burdening the citizen with unnecessary details    Making the most needed information most easily accessible The news and current events or FAQs on topics that would be of the most interest to the citizens should be accessible most easily For example, the Tampa City clu des  Today in Tampa a section on daily events of interest like exhibitions, association meetings news, etc. that the citizens could participate in This has the potential to be extended in a crisis situation like an epidemic by providing information on vaccinations and preventive measures for handling the crisis effectively    Encouraging participation of citizens The citizens are encouraged to voice their opinions on complaints or issues they face in their daily lives For example, the Singapore website encourages citizen feedback on issues and their solutions through REACH \(Reaching Everyone for Active Citizenry at Home\y maintaining blogs and discussion boards where citizens share their experiences and opinions, and using that as feedback for the government  The top rated sites meet requirements and share characteristics that form the basis of their web presence and most importantly relate the design of the portal to the goals of citizen satisfaction. They are also successful in managing a tremendous warehouse of information and services.  The CitiScapes model formalizes this and helps create a more formal architecture that dynamically understands the needs of the citizens, the goals and capabilities of the government and uses the web portal as a means of aligning both of them  2.3 Research in Information Architecture Methods  Many conceptualizations and specific abstractions exist to help address the requirements above. We discuss the specific concepts and tradeoffs below  2.3.1 Collaboration and Performance Framework  The structure, process and dynamics of participation and performance of eGov systems can be shown as aspects which affect each other within the larger institutional, business, technical, political, social economic and cultural environments as in Figu  While this is helpful in considering the issues which contribute to the success or failure of an eGov implementation, in actual development of such a system the problem of mapping this conceptual architecture to the actual implementation still remains   Figure 1: Collaboration and performance framework   2.3.2 Taxonomies and related definitions We next include definitions here that will be used throughout the rest of the paper to illustrate the mapping between Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


aspects of collaboration, performance, and system implementation Taxonomy is a way of classifying things into categories.  Taxonomies are most often hierarchical in structure, with is-a or part-of relationships defined between each category level.  With a taxonomy, we can achieve classification of objects along one dimension, as well as an indication of how they are related to one another given the built-in relationships of the given taxonomy.  An example taxonomy appears in the services dimension of Figure 2 Faceted classification is a way of classifying things into categories defined on multiple dimensions For an object, we may be able to decide which taxonomic category it belongs to by looking at one of its attributes.  However, in faceted classification, there can be multiple attribute types \(facets\d values that determine which categories the object belongs to Information Object is a collection of attributes that logically defines an entity.  Attributes include those that are normally considered data along with metadata  Object is term is used to refer to information objects, aggregates of information objects, services, or process interfaces.  An object also has associated triggers that can take parameters in order to enable the execution of queries to populate objects with data View one or more views are defined on each object to dictate the appearance of the object in a given CitiScape Item we differentiate items from objects simply by the fact that an object is view-independent, and an item is the object with a given view  2.3.3 Representation methods and trade-offs  Taxonomies such as the IPSV is t  f o r th e pu rpos e  of organizing government information and services to present to the user.  However, an inherent limitation exists in that a hierarchical taxonomy only allows classification along one dimension; in the case of the IPSV it is the type of service or information that makes up the category.  Faceted classification improves on this by allowing us to use multiple additional facets to organize services and information as discussed in the next section  The conceptual architecture must also be physically realizable in order to meet the needs of a government organization. An implementation vehicle such as a Content Management System \(CMS\ is one possible way of structuring and classifying the complexity of services and information that exists within it.  Most CMS systems incorporate the use of a taxonomic structure to classify and organize the objects within them.  Having a folder structure containing objects and folders that in turn contain other objects is one way to realize this hierarchy.  Representing the domain in terms of objects made up of attributes facilitates easy modeling of intricate relationships that exist and also increases reusability and flexibility Some CMS even allow the content to be tagged to multiple taxonomies; however, this kind of tagging does not help to provide a user-centric view of services.  For instance, a government organization typically has many departments to provide an array of services to the citizens.  Classifying the services according to department may be helpful for the administrators designing the web presence, but provides no help to the users, as the differences between their government s Public Service and Public Safety departments are probably not common citizen knowledge Use cases and user modeling techniques attempt to address this problem.  These techniques encourage the use of taxonomies and other metadata schema in order to define entities and the relationships that exist between them.  However, in the case of portals, the context-driven user needs are too dynamic to define use cases and build a web presence around those use cases.  Also, the task of identifying what a given user wants from the system is a huge and difficult task that is often not within the capabilities of content developers and web administrators The increasing popularity of search engines and wikis has increased flexibility in terms of assimilating information that the user wants.  A wiki s flat structure for organizing information is effective especially along with search technologies that are continually improving in order to provide the most relevant information to the users in the least amount of time But if citizens are eventually going to use searches that can give them better or equivalent performance results why do we need a conceptual framework such as CitiScapes The answer is that in the case of the citizens interacting with the government, the knowledge of what they are looking for does not lie entirely with the citizens.  The citizens have partial knowledge about what they want and the rest of the knowledge of what is needed is with the departments.  By using a search or a wiki structure, the citizen will be able to access only those services that he or she is aware about individually. For example, a recent graduate who is newly employed might be aware of services such as getting an SSN, filing taxes, etc.  The graduate would be less likely to remember about voter registration before it is too late.  Thus, we illustrate that we need both search capabilities and the ability to push  relevant information to users, much in the same way as online advertising Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 services Health Care Symptom  Senior citizen Safety Immunization Parent Traveller Marriage Death Birth Job  311 Single Sign on Infrastructure services taxonomies Business services taxonomies Context related taxonomies Pull service descriptions Pull information services  Foreign Domestic Child Roles   Employee Events   Alerts Service provider Stakeholder Citizen CitiScapes  taxonomies Healthy living Sight seeing Getting health care  Business Other agencies  Property ownership Home visitation Alcohol and drug abuse Figure 2: The taxonomy dimensions of a citizen-oriented portal architecture  Standard ways of organizing and searching information within a CMS are not designed to be dynamically available for use from multiple entry points based on the citizen. Based on how the user enters, the system should be intelligent enough to direct the user to the right services through minimum navigation, thus enriching user experience.  The CMS provides a good way of classifying the available content but does not relate its presentation to the user effectively To address these problems, we have introduced the concept of Citizen-oriented service interaction landscape or CitiScape.   CitiScape is an abstraction with a service focus from the citizen s perspective Intuitively it is an expanse of visual scenery of particular objects, especially as much as can be seen by the eye and from the user s perspective. The user focus here corresponds to the participants in the e-Gov collaboration m h is is e n h a n ced b y t h e  service and implementation details of entering into the CitiScape to meet citizen objectives  3. CitiScapes and Dynamic Architecture  The context of the citizen, the use of services, the services capabilities and the underlying IT components can be organized in four dimensions, each with associated taxonomies organizing the related objects as illustrated in the architecture of Figure 2 Each dimension is described below starting from the top dimension.  Subsequently we will discuss the dynamic relationships between these dimensions  3.1 Portal Taxonomy Dimensions  Context  taxonomies  This consists of life events and roles taxonomies that together help identify what is known about the user.  Roles and life-events are also distinct facets of a user.  For example, a person s role as a senior citizen may be impacted by various life events that include retirement, marriage, divorce and so on.  The same events might also impact a person in the role of a parent  CitiScapes taxonomies   We use healthcare services for citizens to illustrate the CitiScapes conceptualization. Healthcare is an example of a governmental entity that would have a significant degree of direct interaction with citizens and other stakeholders. There are many different roles which would interact with the health department for accessing its services.  The roles could include citizens visitors, businesses, employees and other agencies The services and information provided to each role would vary depending on the needs and context of the user.  The services themselves could be categorized from the user s perspective. For example the different CitiScapes could offer services as follows    Healthy living This could include exercise tips nutrition or diet instructions and stress management techniques for promoting healthy living among citizens   Getting and paying for healthcare This could include information on common diseases, nearby hospitals and the healthcare services provided in each of them, information on support groups such as those for cancer or addictions, rehabilitation information, and online services such as scheduling appointments.  The information and services related to financial aspects of healthcare could include health insurance information or search, medical claim plans or even tips on saving with healthcare  The services that the visitor roles would be interested in when moving to Healthy living could include some of the above, like getting information on nearby hospitals and healthcare services, but it could also include international patient guides, emergency Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


services, etc.  The government or other agencies moving to the same CitiScape would be more interested in services metrics and statistics related to various diseases which could be useful during epidemic or other emergency events Thus, with the CitiScapes conceptualization, a space can be dynamically populated for each role and interest group based on the event.  This space will thus provide those services that are relevant to each role and interest. More generally, by entering a particular CitiScapes, the user explicitly or implicitly provides information that allows the system to guess at the service transactions most likely to meet needs  CitiScapes definition   We can now define a CitiScape as a logical collection of items.  Each object should be unique in an information system \(i.e. there should be no duplication\, but an object can have multiple points of interaction by appearing in multiple CitiScapes.  Each CitiScape is designed to have the following three characteristics \(see illustration in Figure 3  1  Characterization of items by at least six facets    Role of the citizen   Life-event of the citizen that is causing the visit   Services that correspond to the life event, role and the CitiScape   Time of service delivery   Value of service from each stakeholder perspective, and   Location of service delivery  2  Facets as a basis for dynamic rules The facet values provide a basis for applying rules that connect the citizen to the services. The facets characterize objects in each dimension. For example, they may have default values that determine how the CitiScape is presented to the user.  If more specific information is known about the user for example the role and events then the selection of the CitiScape causes the local triggers to use these more specific parameters to dynamically populate the specific services from the underlying dimension 3  Conceptual design of CitiScapes The user s perspective is the starting point for design. The rules dynamically connect the conceptual service or services\ to implementation-oriented services At the same time it also allows us to organize CMS objects into larger display-independent abstractions for re-use. This allows us to share specific information and services leading to several additional advantages that will be discussed later  Business Services taxonomies The typical range of services has been identified in taxonomies for eGov [7   T h ese t a xo no mi e s d e fi ne t h e  areas of concern for users interacting with governments.  Additionally, many government web presences already make use of a taxonomy or definite folder structure as a way of organizing information These taxonomies are hierarchies or acyclic graphs that describe the departments and their competencies.  As illustrated in this dimension \(see Figure 2  department has many service capabilities that are organized.  With the CitiScapes architecture, each service in this dimension can contribute to many different CitiScapes in the dimension above   Figure 3 Getting health care CitiScape with facets  Infrastructure taxonomies Each IT component provides information services that are useful in the delivery of a service.  For example, access to citizen records, 311 calls, single sign-on password, etc  3.2 Dynamic Pull Population of the CitiScapes  CitiScapes Rules  Given the complexity of navigating the dimensions, even when they are organized into taxonomies, we need a way to make the right subset of services available to all of the different types of users To accomplish this, the dimensions are related dynamically by rules that classify the context and based on the classification query the services that need to be displayed.  The role and life event context of the user, including related keywords and clicks, are interpreted as input parameters to an information retrieval trigger that populates the particular CitiScape with services of interest.  This minimizes navigation between the dimensions and allows the same service to be used whenever applicable by identifying the context Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


of the user and allowing the user to pull services that match As an example consider a parent who needs to find information on their children s school vacation days. This user belongs to a very broad group of citizens with the context dimension.  If we can detect that the user is a parent of children at a specific school then the service need is specific and can be implemented as a specific request belonging to a general category of school-related or even educationrelated services provided by the services dimension.  In addition, the location facet lends itself to hierarchy very well; the need focuses on a certain school, which may be a subset of a school district or located in a certain part of a city. \(We leave the discussion of how this detection of user context is done to future work  Citizen-specific CitiScape  Next we show how a CitiScape architecture accomplishes this by integrating both retrieval and filtering con prov ide th e u s er w i t h  customized e-landscape.  The details are accomplished by the organized portal dimensions, taxonomies, and faceted nodes that are connected dynamically to provide the user with a custom CitiScape as follows To dynamically populate a CitiScape, we use the ideas of faceted classification h eth er a  departmental service belongs to a particular CitiScape is determined by faceted classification.  CitiScapes and Services are both organized based on a collection of categories, called facets.  Each of which has a group of associated default values that describe the information A CitiScape has default facet values.  However, if more specific role and event facet values are known they are used to customize queries that pull to populate more specific services, time, location and value/cost information into the Getting health care  CitiScape.  The long-term characteristics of a user \(e.g lives in a certain neighborhood, is a frequent user of the website, is a parent/senior citizen/college student has certain interests or works in a certain profession can also be combined with their short-term information need to provide a rich user experience. Additional facets may also apply to populate the CitiScapes such as accessibility alternatives Thus, through our notion of CitiScapes, we support the interaction of the user with the system and help the system in making intelligent choices with regard to the services that it needs to push to the user based on how they enter the system, their behavior within the system, system metrics, and other metrics that will be used to define facet values.   This conceptual model helps the government bundle services together to be pr ovided to citizens in the appropriate order and relevance, thereby enhancing the user experience  User experience with Dynamic CitiScapes  The effective organization of services or information items is crucial for the government in order to provide citizens with the enhanced user experience and remain competitive itself.  However the organization of these items is as challenging as much as it is crucial.  This is because each of these items can be of interest fully or partially to more than one user group while a single user group may be interested in a varied collection of items As shown in Table 1, various user groups such as citizens, visitors, families, seniors, safety and health workers would like to interact with the City to access the items of interest to them.  This would be a subset of all the information items and services that the Government has to offer.  The use of the facets as cues for user interest is illustrated next Services such as finding a hospital, doctor, or insurance will probably be most helpful to the user if they take into account the user s location Most of the services and information in the health example are applicable to citizens in general, although finding a Table 1: Sample items pertaining to health-related CitiScapes. - denotes the default value for the facet CitiScape Item Role facet Event facet Time facet Location facet Paying for Healthcare Citizens Finding Healthcare   Find Flu Shots Citizens Finding Healthcare   Make Appointment at Clinic Citizens Finding Healthcare   Find Doctor Citizens Finding Healthcare urgent proximity to user Insurance Search Citizens Finding Healthcare  proximity to user Find Hospital Citizens, Visitors Finding Healthcare urgent proximity to user Nutrition/Diet Info Citizens, health care providers Staying Healthy Exercise Tips Citizens/Seniors/Families Staying Healthy   Staying Healthy in Winter Citizens Staying Healthy winter  Family Health Tips Families Staying Healthy   Evacuation Citizens, safety providers Health Urgent  Sign up for Email Update Citizens Health   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


hospital is an example of a service that might be of interest to visitors as well Exercise tips is an example of a dynamic information object that can take parameters from a CitiScape and return specific information depending on the context of the CitiScape.  Here, different exercise information will be presented, depending on the role of the CitiScape, which in turn depends on the role of the user.  The time facet may be used to determine in which situations or times information is available; for instance, in case of a health emergency, users visiting any of the health CitiScapes may be redirected to a CitiScape dealing specifically with emergency services and information.  Thus, for example, the items from the table above could be dynamically assembled into the identified CitiScapes in Figure 4.  These CitiScapes cater to the interests of different users based on their context of interaction    Figure 4: Example CitiScapes associated with Health  4. Application Benefits of CitiScapes Architecture  In this section we explore the more strategic benefits of the CitiScape architecture further  Business Intelligence Mining  CitiScape architecture realizes that the knowledge of the services that the user needs is available only partially with the user while the Government itself holds a lot of that knowledge.   Hence, a symbiotic interaction is facilitated by CitiScapes between the user and the Government.  With every step in the interaction, the user reveals more of his interest and context of interaction and the system narrows these services and pushes them to the user.  The interaction sequence could be also monitored as follows 1  A user enters the system through a general CitiScape providing value for location and time  2  When a user is identified as a citizen, the system knows that the user could be interested in spaces like Citizen Finding Healthcare, Citizen Emergency, Citizen Staying Healthy, but they could also be interested in other spaces like job opportunities, community events, filing taxes etc They could even be interested in more specific spaces like Senior Health or Family Health.  This provides intelligence on populations and in certain areas  3  If the user indicates interest in finding healthcare the system narrows down the services that it will push to the user. So, the focus now will be on spaces related to healthcare as opposed to spaces related to employment or taxes, for example.  The user may then access an item like general exercise tips or finding a doctor.  Thus, the spaces of Citizen, Staying Healthy, Citizen Finding Healthcare and Citizen Emergency will be relevant for this level of interaction.  Now we have a significant understanding of the users interests The user may choose to stop at this level if their need has been met, or he may continue interacting with the system to get more services.  This type of telescoping can provide significant understanding of trends within populations as well 4  Next if this user is a senior citizen, they could enter the CitiScape for senior citizens and now access additional items or even view the same items from the perspective of a senior citizen.  So if they want to look at exercise tips, they could find those specific to senior citizens in this CitiScape.  They would also be able to find other information such as nutrition, common ailments and access services such as participation in community events for senior citizens.  They could access a general service like finding the nearest doctor or hospital but could also access a specific service such as finding a doctor specializing arthritis, since they are now a part of the Senior Health CitiScape.  Thus, they are now looking at not only those services that they initially thought they wanted, but also related services in which they would now be interested, even if they weren t aware of them initially.  Again, this provides insights into new needs   In summary, this sequence illustrates several aspects 1\he user has an intuitive and progressive interaction with the system that provides needed services, 2\e sharing and reuse of items like exercise tips across spaces and in contexts that are both general \(as in the Citizen Staying Healthy CitiScape\r more specific \(as in the Senior or Family Health CitiScapes\d finally, 3\ the dynamic population of the spaces based on citizen interaction to provides significant intelligence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Dynamically enhanced navigation and user experience In a traditionally organized website, the citizen might begin at the city homepage, and traverse links through a structure that is often organized by department.  We can think of the CitiScape architecture and navigation path as a continual narrowing down of the user s intent until the user arrives at a place where they can complete their intended interaction.  However, even this generalization is optimistic for many government web presences which have become cluttered and disorganized due to the rapid increase in demand for online services and the lack of time and/or experience necessary to keep all of the information contained in a web presence accurate, timely and organized.  In addition, the internal organization structure \(e.g departments\ is not an appropriate structure for navigability.   For instance, given a certain service need, how would a citizen know whether his or her request should go to the Public Service or the Public Safety department?  As shown in the previous section CitiScapes addresses these issues by providing views of services relevant to users, their roles and interests and the additional facets that account for their individual context for using the system  Improved reuse and searchability  The overall approach used at all levels is to dynamically populate the CitiScapes and the items within them with content.  The content objects themselves are all maintained in a self-contained and local fashion and used whenever and wherever they meet the criteria.  This occurs not only when populating the CitiScapes but also when developing content.  To illustrate the point, suppose a content provider role needed to add a new news story to Getting Health Care In the proposed layered CitiScapes architecture, the news story would be a specific independently maintained object with a collection of attributes, such as Title, Author, Date Created, Date of Expiration, Summary, Body, and Subject, along with additional attributes to define its position in an underlying taxonomy and its applicability to various CitiScapes.   Instead of creating all of the attributes values uniquely, the content role will have the opportunity to select from existing objects as values for attributes of the news story object Selecting an object and content that most likely already exists in the system enforces reuse of the existing information, avoids duplication, and specifies a dynamic relationship between the two objects Getting health care and news story.  Next a query can be easily constructed to find any news story releases related to a given subject Moving to such a dynamic approach also allows us to take advantage of semantic querying.  For example logic and ontology languages such as RDF and OWL can be used to express relationships between objects and facilitate flexible queries and searches, as well as inference  Improved services The role facet allows great flexibility of user access to objects in a CitiScape-based system.  It supports the integration of various services using data from the enterprise directory and CMS-based user registration as well as profiles gathered from user behavior and online transaction activity As the users in different roles narrow their intent by navigating and providing values for the different facets that the CitiScapes are built on; the system pulls appropriate service items based on accumulated knowledge about the particular user.  For instance, if there exists some profile or cookie information indicating that the given user has used the website many times to find information on public parks, the system might direct them to a CitiScape having a focus on parks or outdoor activities.  If we know that the user is a citizen of the city, the system will direct them to a citizen-centered CitiScape, as opposed to directing a visitor to a visitor-centered CitiScape. This two-way interaction will help us identify those services that are used often and in what context, those that are not used and even what CitiScapes are effective.  Thus the information can help the government strategically to develop services that are more specific to the citizens  Service Use and IT Traceability A CitiScapes implementation improves the ability to collect and mine relevant information about how when, and where services and information are used For example, we can now track for each object which CitiScapes are being used to access it, and thereby know which user groups and roles are associated with its use.  Combining this information with traditional web presence metrics such as length of time spent viewing information or completing a service navigation patterns, and frequency of access will allow more user-centric performance data to be gathered Deriving patterns from these observations will allow the government organization to truly understand the needs and habits of the citizenry, and incrementally improve the services and information it provides Additionally, we will be able to provide business-IT traceability, because we also know which back-end system each object is residing in, and therefore track the usage of these systems in order to provide better analysis of technology use  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


5  Conclusions  Structuring an eGovernment system around the concept of CitiScapes will provide significant benefits to users of the system as well as administrators and stakeholders.  The dynamic population of CitiScapes presents users with services chosen to match their roles and needs, thereby affording the opportunity to push  highly relevant services to a user in addition to retrieving information to satisfy a given need, while ensuring trustworthiness and security by only providing services that the user can access based on their role.  The organization of services by relevant facets gives users easy access to needed services without having to understand how the government organization is structured.  The support for underlying information objects and relationships provided by the CMS allows the connection to be made between the different dimensions of the portal environment; it is now possible to keep track of when, where, how and by whom services are being used, and gather this information to provide performance feedback to the system for future improvement. In addition, the reusability of information and service objects across multiple CitiScapes increases maintainability of the web presence by centralizing the change process away from pages toward services.  Finally, we envision that eventually the support for CitiScape-type features will be incorporated into CMS systems to enable better socio-technical interactions   6.   References  1 H M G o v e r n m e nt. T r a n sf or m a tiona l G o v e r n m e n t Ena b le d  by Technology. TSO, Norwich, UK, 2005  2 Hille r, Ja nine S., Be la ng e r F. P r iv a c y Stra te g i e s  f o r  Electronic Government. The PricewaterhouseCoopers Endowment for the Business of Government Report, January 2001  3 Mc C l ure  D  G o v e rn m e nt T r a n sf or m a tion: G e tting Joined-Up Governance Right. Gartner, Inc., September 2007  4 D i Ma io, A  G ove rnm e nt a nd W e b 2.0: T h e Em e r g i ng Midoffice. Gartner, Inc., September 2007   DiM a io  A  W h at Do es W e b 2  0  M ean to G o vern men t Gartner, Inc., March 2007  6 D a w e s  S., Eg le ne O  N e w  m ode ls of c o lla bora tion f o r  delivering government services: A dynamic model drawn from multi-national research Proceedings of the 2004 Annual National Conference on Digital Government Research, 2004   I P S V Bo ard Int egrat e d P u b l i c S e ct o r  Vo cab u l ary   Version 2.00. Porism Limited, SW9 8BJ, 2006  8 L a m b e  P  O r g a nis i ng K now le dg e  Ta x onom ie s   Knowledge and Organisational Effectiveness. Chandos Publishing Ltd, Oxford, 2007  9 T o lone W A hn, G P a i, T  H ong S. A c c e s s C ontr o l i n  Collaborative Systems. ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 37 No. 1, March 2005, pp. 29 41  10 Ni ta-Ro taru  C L i N. A Frame w o rk f o r Ro le-Based  Access Control in Group Communication Systems. ISCA 17th International Conference "Parallel and Distributed Computing Systems". San Francisco, CA, USA. 15-17 Sept 2004  11 But l e r T Cole m a n, D  Mode ls of Colla bo ra tio n  Collaborative Strategies, September 2003 http://www.collaborate.com/publication/newsletter/publicatio ns_newsletter_september03.html   12 Ce nte r f o r D i g ita l G o v e rnm e nt. Eng a g e Cre a ting e Government that supports Commerce, Collaboration Community and Commonwealth. e.Republic Inc., 2007  13 Ci ty of  T a m p a  Ta m p a G ov  http www ta m pa g o v ne t  14 Ci ty of  A u rora CO. htt p w ww a urora g o v org   15 Be lk in N. J   Cr of t, B 199 2 Inf orm a tion f ilte ring  and information retrieval Communications of the ACM  35 12\, 29-38  16 Ce nte r f o r D i g ita l G ove rnm e nt http://www.centerdigitalgov.com/index.php   17  Sing a pore I n f o m a p. http w w w sg    18 Ma c M a n us R i c h a r d. EG o v e r n m e nt Me e t s W e b 2.0  ReadWriteWeb, November 5, 2007  19 L i bra r y of Cong re s s  Sum m it on Se ria l s in t h e D i g ita l Environment Glossary http://www.loc.gov/acq/conser/glossary.html   20 USA g ov ht tp www usa gov   21 Dire c t G o v  htt p w ww dire c t g ov uk    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 to request, review, and propose changes to the current state of the science plan Distributed Operations 227 Cassini distributed all aspects of the instrument operations to the science teams. Science Teams were required to develop the spacecraft commanding for pointing the spacecraft. Th is significantly complicated the interfaces and coordination required by the JPL science and sequencing teams. The distribution of internal instrument commanding and monitoring instrument health and safety worked well. Dedicated full-time operations personnel were required at all instrument sites. The liaison between the distributed sites and JPL required definition of a strong JPL Investigation Scientist \(i.e., Experiment Representative\le Distributed operations is a two-edged sword. Scientists personally worked operations and were better able to optimize for their science objectives. Their insight provided the feedback necessary to quickly respond to science discoveries in the science selection and uplink processes This allowed the operations team to capitalize on truly extraordinary opportunities to a degree not thought possible However, this was at the cost of doing science analysis and publishing science results Software Development 227 The Cassini mission deferred most of its ground software development until post launch. In fact, considerable effort was spent accelerating the development of the tools required to plan the Jupiter flyby observations in 2001. For the start of the science integration for Cassini\222s prime mission, many of the ground software planning tools were immature or unavailable. To compensate, homegrown tool development occurred at the instrument sites and within science planning. System engineering of these types of ground software tools was lacking. A better paradigm would have been to develop the operations and ground system\222s architecture, requirements models, and software to a level sufficient to support operations pre-launch. Sufficient project resources needed to be applied to Phase B/C/D development. The science planning tools should be developed to a sufficient level during these phases such that th ey can be used as part of evaluating the ground and flight system requirements and capabilities. Based on this evaluation, refinements could be made during cruise and throughout the mission to the unified ground and flight system architecture and software requirements Programmatic  Project Science 227The orbiter consists of 8 Principal Investigator \(PI\struments and 4 Facility Instrument with corresponding Team Leads. In a ddition, there are 5 different science discipline teams: Rings, Saturn, Titan, Icy Satellites and Magnetosphere. The Project Science leader ship needed to be highly involved in the tactical and strategic science planning activities. The consensus building culture used on Cassini was time consuming. The Project Science support staff should be funded adequately to allow the Project Scientist to participate in the integration process. Clear Project Science guidelines are very helpful Instruments 227 Instrument Flight Rule development must be mature pre-launch. Instruments should be designed to minimize impacts on the operations of the other instruments, e.g., radiator placement. Data compression internal to instruments is vital. For Cassini, the science instruments had internal sequencing memory for storing instrument commanding for upcoming sequence. This allowed the science teams th e ability to send real-time noninteractive instrument commands that bypass the sequencing process by using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP  In-flight Testing 227 The targeted gravity assist flybys provided a unique opportunity to exercise the ground system on realistic science data acquisition scenarios that simulates the operational environment during the Tour phase of the prime mission. This also had the advantage of providing the science instrument teams an opportunity to acquire useful science data for the purposes of instrument checkout and science data analysis. The in-flight exercises should use the processes, procedures, software, and ground system capabilities in the same manner, to the extent possible, as will be used during Tour and Orbital operations The entire flight team \(mission planning, science planning sequencing, spacecraft, naviga tion, and science teams should be fully engaged to provide the maximum benefit to the Project 7  C ONCLUSION  Even though Cassini was a NASA flagship mission maximizing the science return was a challenge to science planning operations. Decisions aimed at saving both prelaunch and operations costs added considerable complexity to both the spacecraft and the ground system. Among the key ones were removing the scan platform, opting for distributed operations rather than co-location, and delaying development of some flight software and most of the ground system until after launch Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed to overcome those challenges as presented in this paper should be of value to other deep space science missions.  Future missions should carefully consider the following advice 200  Pay careful attention to operational scenarios in development cost saving decisions, both spacecraft and ground. Additional, more sophisticated commanding constructs may be required in operations to compensate for lack of spacecraft capabilities. Ground management of stressed or 


  12 degraded spacecraft components will be labor intensive   R EFERENCES    N. Vanderm ey and B G. Paczkowski 223The C a ssi ni Huygens Mission Overview,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Andrew M i shki n and B a rbara Larsen 223Im p l e m e nt i ng Distributed Operations: A Comparison of Two Deep Space Missions,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006 3 Barb ara Larsen 223Bu ilt Bu t No t Used Need ed  Bu t No t Built: Ground System Guidance Based On CassiniHuygens Experience,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Spi l k er, Li nda J \(edi t o r o  a R i nged Wold\224,NASA SP-533, 1997  Jennifer Long Maxwell, W illiam M Heventhal, III, and Shahram Javidnia, \223The Cassini-Huygens Sequence Development Process\224, 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Paczkowski  B G, \223C assi ni Sci e nce Pl anni ng Process\224 2004 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, May 17 21, 2004 200  Recognize that lack of margin in any resource required for science return will require compensatory staffing. Pr edefined, prevalidated options for resource management such a power modes can compensate. Tools that validate resource allocation are essential 200  Anticipate alternative costs for failing to meet MOS development schedules. The ground system needs to have reached sufficient maturity to support key operations tasks before those tasks commence 200  Distributed science operations introduces delays and complications to sequence development, which must be managed in science planning. System engineering will need to deal with overlap in and conflict between ground systems 200  Acknowledge that complexity in any form\227 spacecraft design, science objectives, MOS architecture\227may be managed to enhance science return but the science planning operations must be funded and structured to manage that complexity The processes to develop science commanding will be lengthy and highly iterative In the end, with an appropriate funding profile, adequate and timely staffing, and effective processes and tools all the facets of mission complexity can be managed to extract amazing science return 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work done by the Cassini-Huygens Flight and Science Teams. Without their efforts the unrivaled science collected by the Cassini mission would not have been achieved This work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technol ogy, under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  251 2008 California Institute of Technology. Government sponsorship acknowledged 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


