  1 Imaging Fourier Transform Spectrometry of Jet Engine Exhaust with the Telops FIRST-MWE Kenneth C. Bradley, Spencer Bowen, Kevin C Gross, Michael A. Marciniak, Glen P. Perram Air Force Institute of Technology 2950 Hobson Way Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH 45433-7765 937-255-3636 kenneth.bradley@afit.edu  Abstract 227The Field-portable Imaging Radiometric Spectrometer Technology Midwave Extended \(FIRSTMWE\system developed by Telops, Inc. was used to capture hyperspectral imagery of turbojet engine exhaust The FIRST-MWE is a Michelson interferometer coupled to a 320 x 256 Indium Antimonide \(InSb\focal plane array with instantaneous field of view \(IFOV\mrad Exhaust from a diesel-fueled Turbine Technologies, Ltd 
SR-30 turbojet engine was imaged at three modes of operation from a side-plume vantage point close to the engine. Temporally-averaged spectral data featured strong CO 2 emission near 2200-2450 cm 1 A simple radiative transfer model was used to produce spatially-resolved maps of the temperature and relative CO 2 concentration. The model assumed an optically-thin plume that was homogeneous along each pixel\222s line-of-sight. The Carbon Dioxide Spectroscopic Databank was used to compute molecular cross-sections used in fitting the temporallyaveraged spectra 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS 
 1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  T ELOPS FIRST-MWE 1  3  D ATA C OLLECTION AND P ROCESSING 2  4  R ESULTS AND A NALYSIS 5  5  C ONCLUSIONS 5  
R EFERENCES 7  B IOGRAPHY 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  Traditional \(non-imaging\er-transform spectrometry and broadband infrared imagery have been useful tools in the study of combustion events, including the characterization of post-detonation combustion fireballs following the detonation of high explosiv The midwave infrared \(MWIR\ region of the electromagnetic spectrum \(2000\2265000 cm 1 or 5\2262 
265 m\ is a useful region to study these high-temperature events. Hydrocarbon 
combustion by-products such as H 2 O, CO 2 and CO have several ro-vibrational bands in this region. Furthermore contrast between the hot fireball and thermal background emission is large. The broadband imagery reveals details about the fluid dynamics, and the time-resolved spectra 1  1 U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright 2 IEEEAC paper #1049, Version 9, Updated December 17, 2008 capture information about the chemical constituents and their kinetic evolution. The spectral data has been used to develop a simple phenomenological model for these highexplosive combustion events, and model parameters can be 
used to distinguish explosives differing in stoichiometric ratios of hy   Recent advances in high-speed electronics and focal-plane array \(FPA\technologies have enabled the development of imaging FTS systems that, in some collection modes, are nearly as fast as non-imaging FTS systems. Imaging FTS is advantageous over both dispersive and filter-wheel imaging spectrometers due to its throughput \(Jacquinot multiplex \(Fellgett\222s\vantages, wider free spectral range and higher spectral resoluti  St udy i ng com bust i on with an imaging FTS will yield an improved understanding of the phenomenology of these dynamic events, particularly in the interplay of fluid dynamics and combustion chemistry. However, combustion systems pose an interesting challenge for FTS as the timescales at which the 
scene changes is often comparable with the interferometric scan time. To mitigate this problem, our study of dynamic combustion systems begins with emissions from a small diesel-fueled turbojet engine. The engine provides a nice combustion signature that, while highly turbulent on short timescales, can be treated as approximately steady over times on the order of a second. By collecting many hyperspectral datacubes, the te mporal average tends toward a steady-state representation. This research effort is in its initial stages, and only raw uncalibrated data is presented However, the utility of imaging FTS in the study of engine exhaust will be clearly demonstrated.  The spectra contain CO 2 emission features which are used to estimate both 
temperature and relative concentration throughout the plume 2  T ELOPS FIRST-MWE   The Telops, Inc. FIRST-MWE is an imaging Fourier transform spectrometer with a spectral range of 1800\226 6667 cm 1 1.5\2265.5 \265m\ned spectral resolution between 0.25\226150 cm 1 It has a 320x256 pixel Stirlingcooled InSb FPA. The spatial extent of the scene can be windowed to improve temporal resolution with a smaller field of view. The FIRST-MWE has an individual pixel field of view \(IFOV\rad and uses a 16-tap read 


  2 out integrated circuit to achieve fast data rates. Temporal resolution is entirely dependent on instrument settings. For this work, a spectral resolution of 8 cm 1 with a window size of 128x128 pixels and 5 \265s integration time was used resulting in a single hyperspectral datacube every 300 ms The spectra of approximately 15 seconds of data \(50 frames\e-averaged to significantly reduce the undesirable effects of scene change artifacts from the data culminating in a temporally-averaged hyperspectral datacube for each engine setting 3  D ATA C OLLECTION AND P ROCESSING  Hyperspectral imagery of jet engine exhaust was collected from a side-plume vantage point with the FIRST-MWE positioned 5 meters from the engine, as shown in Figure 1  Figure 1 \226 Experimental setup for collecting exhaust data from a turbojet engine \(a\with the Telops FIRSTMWE \(b\The inset image of the engine \(outlined in red was taken from a different experimental setup  The turbojet engine was filled with diesel fuel and run at three different engine settings: high \(78,600 RPM\medium 59,800 RPM\ow \(39,400 RPM\ng to estimated fuel flow rates of 300 cm 3 min, 225 cm 3 min, and 150 cm 3 min, respectively.  The FIRST-MWE was set to 8 cm 1 spectral resolution and spatially windowed to a 128x128 pixel field of view, which corresponds to a 22.4 cm x 22.4 cm region in object space, centered on the engine exhaust. The exit nozzle of the turbojet engine is located immediately left of the field of view. To avoid saturation, an integration time of 5 \265s was used, and 50 hyperspectral datacubes were collected for each engine setting Scene Change Artifacts \(SCAs The turbulent nature of jet e ngine exhaust results in highly pronounced scene change artifacts \(SCAs\within an individual hyperspectral datacube One datacube consists of a compilation of several image frames, each taken with the moveable mirror of the internal Fourier Transform spectrometer at a specific loca tion, resulting in a desired optical path difference \(OPD\acube of jet engine exhaust data was collected every 300 ms, allowing for significant plume variation between image frames \(OPD positions\An example of the plume scene at three sequential OPD positions is shown in Figure 2  Figure 2 \226 Relative radiation intensity for three consecutive image frames \(OPD positions\ithin a jet engine exhaust hyperspectral datacube.  Each image is separated temporally by approximately 125 \265s. The vertical streaking is an artifact of the raw images.  A non-uniformity correction has not been applied  


  3 SCAs result in a decreased signal-to-noise ratio \(SNR\over that which would be obtained for either a non-varying or more slowly varying scene. Two possible approaches were investigated for significantly reducing the negative impacts of these SCAs, spatial and te mporal averaging. Since the ultimate goal of this research was to produce high-fidelity spatial mappings of plume temperature and plume chemical concentration pathlengths, temporal averaging was selected and implemented As can be seen in Figure 3 temporal averaging significantly reduced the noise associated with the plume spectrum. The bold temporally-averaged spectrum in Figure 3 was produced from an average of a 2x2 pixel region from a sequence of 30 datacubes. The noise associated with SCAs is zero mean. Temporal averag ing resulted in a significant decrease in the noise-floor, a llowing the spectral signature of hot CO 2 to appear  Figure 3 \226 Average spectra of a 2x2 pixel region of jet engine exhaust for 30 sequentia l datacubes \(light grey overlayed by the temporally-averaged real \(signal\ and imaginary \(noise\the effect of temporal averaging to decrease the noise floor by minimizing the negative effects of SCAs for turbulent exhaust plumes.  The spectral signature of hot CO 2 is clearly visible.  All other spectral lines at this spectral resolution and SNR level are below the noise floor  The rapid variations in the plume do not preclude measurement of the spectra The turbojet exhaust spectrum resembles a steady-state confi guration when time-averaging over the time it takes to acquire one datacube. One datacube at this spectral and spatial resolution is acquired in approximately 0.3 seconds. Averaging over all 2,368 image frames within one hyperspectral datacube produces an image of the plume in steady state. Figure 4 presents the resulting image of the plume\222s average total intensity Figure 4 \226 Average total intensity \(arbitrary units radiation for one hyperspectra l datacube of jet engine exhaust data consisting of 2,368 consecutive image frames \(OPD positions Spectral Analysis of Jet Engine Exhaust The goal of spectral analysis for this research is to recover plume information from the remotely collected hyperspectral data. Specifically temperature and chemical concentration pathlengths at each pixel within the image scene are desired. After a quick look at the exhaust spectra the dominant chemical that app ears within the spectra is hot CO 2 as shown in Figure 3 Plume and Background Pixels 227Identification of plume and background pixels is necessary in order to properly analyze the jet engine exhaust data. Since the most striking spectral feature distinguishing the two is the presence or absence of hot CO 2 an integration of the spectral region between 2200 and 2400 cm 1 is calculated for every pixel. An appropriate threshold value was chosen for each data set, such that the integrated spectral radiance from 2200-2400 cm 1 for plume pixels lies above the threshold value, while background pixels are those for which the integrated spectral radiance in this spectral range falls below the threshold value. Figure 5 shows an example of the aver age spectra for a plume pixel and a non-plume pixel for the high RPM engine exhaust data.  The average spectral radiance of non-plume pixels was used as an estimate of the background spectral radiance for the plume chemical concentration pathlength model The model was applied to both plume and non-plume pixels, although the model assumed the presence of hot CO 2 which was not present in background pixels.  This led to poor spectral fitting of non-plume pixels Plume Temperature 227 At the 8 cm 1 spectral resolution used for collection of the jet engine exhaust data, spectral broadening is observed for higher-temperature plume pixels. To recover plume temperature information, a simplified apparent plume model was developed that incorporates contributions from the plume and atmosphere Plume models were produced for a pure CO 2 plume at 


  4 temperatures varying from 275 to 1500 K in 5 K increments using effective molecular absorption cross-sections derived from the Carbon Dioxide Spectroscopic Databank \(CDSD database [3].  These effec tive molecular absorption crosssections are defined as a combination of the quantummechanical dipole overlap ma trix and the statistical temperature-dependent distribution of stat   Figure 5 \226 Average spectra of plume \(red, dotted non-plume \(blue spectral radiance in the hot CO 2 spectral region from 2200-2400 cm 1 Proper thresholding allows for the identification of plume and non-plume pixels for entire image scenes  2       obs CO p atm BB p LXT LT 002 003 CO2  004 atm  003\002 004\002 002  1 where L obs  002 fit parameter, corresponding to the concentration pathlength 002 T p is the effective molecular cross-section for CO 2  at the temperature T p and 002 is the atmospheric transmittance derived from HITRAN using the Line-by-line Radiative Transfer Model \(LBLRTM BB  002 T p e Planckian blackbody function at the plume temperature.  A least-squares algorithm was employed to fit the observed spectral radiance to each of the temperature-dependent plume models, with the best-fit corresponding to the temperature of CO 2 within the plume. Figure 6 illustrates the phenomena of broader CO 2 emission spectra for pixels closer to the engine exhaus t exit plane. This spectral broadening is explained by higher rotational temperatures which is consistent with expectations. Although radiometric analysis is incomplete at this point, the uncalibrated data of Figure 6 show the spectral broadening of the CO 2 emission profile for higher temperatures. For this research, it is assumed that all chemicals with in the plume at a given pixel location are at the same temperature, and the calculated temperature of CO 2 will be referred to as the plume temperature for that pixel  Plume Chemical Concentration Pathlengths 227 Using plume temperatures calculated for each pixel, a more robust plume model was developed to calculate concentration pathlengths of individual chemicals within the engine exhaust plume  2 2       1    obs CO p atm BB p atm CO p Bkgd LQT LT QTL 002 s the average background radiance from the non-plume pixels and Q is the concentration pathlength   Figure 6\226 Pixels closer to the engine exhaust exit plane exhibit increased rotational temperature, causing a widening of the CO 2 emission spectra \(top pixels are identified by the five rectangles in the bottom image Due to poor spectral resolution of the jet engine exhaust data, and the high noise-floor for the corresponding spectra the only spectral signature that pr esents itself for analysis is hot CO 2 Additionally, due to the small number of calibration files available, calibration of the raw data 002\003\002\004\002\002 004\002 003 002 002  212  2 where L Bkgd  


  5 introduced additional noise, prohibiting further analysis of the data to obtain temperature and CO 2 concentration pathlength distributions. However, the trends in both temperature and concentration pathlength distributions using the uncalibrated data show sufficient correlation to ensure accuracy. Future data collection at 1 cm 1 spectral resolution over a much longer timescale will be temporally averaged to significantly lower the noise floor. The resulting spectra will be fit to a model that consists of effective molecular absorp tion cross-sections of CO 2 CO and H 2 O, giving absolute plume temperature and concentration profiles 4  R ESULTS AND A NALYSIS  Spatial profiles of relative plume temperature and chemical concentration pathlengths are presented for all three engine settings, as opposed to absolute values, due to the uncalibrated nature of the data. In the following figures, the jet engine exhaust exit plane is located left of the image with the exhaust nozzle outside the field of view Spectral Fit of the Plume Model to Engine Exhaust Data Determining plume temperature and CO 2 concentration pathlengths from remotely collected jet engine exhaust data requires a model that can take advantage of a few key spectral features. Just as inte grated spectra over the spectral region associated with hot CO 2 allowed for a clear separation of plume and background pixels, the spectral width of molecular absorption cross-sections varies with temperature. Similarly, spectral radiance varies with concentration pathlength. A least-squares fit for temperature and CO 2 concentration pathlength was calculated at each pixel. Figure 7 contains a plot of modeled \(blue\and measured \(red\ple plume pixel   Figure 7 \226 Overlay of modeled \(blue red, dotted\pixel in the engine exhaust data with the engine operating with a high fuel flow rate of 300 cm 3 min  Spatial Map of Plume Temperature and CO 2 Concentration The spatial profiles of plume temperature for the jet engine exhaust with the engine running at high, medium, and low fuel flow rates are presented in the top, middle, and bottom images of Figure 8, respectivel y. They exhibit the expected trends. The plume generated by the engine with 300 cm 3 min fuel flow is at higher temperature, and the hot plume extends further in the scene \(away from the engine before cooling significantly with the ambient air. The plumes generated by the engine at medium and low fuel flow rates have similar spatial features, but plume temperatures are progressively lower and mix with ambient air closer to the engine e xhaust exit plane. The spectral fitting algorithm produces errors for pixels in which no plume exists, as evidenced pr edominately in the spatial profiles of plume temperature along the bottom of each of the respective images in Figure 8.  Although absolute temperatures were not computed, the trends exhibited in the plume temperature profiles provide evidence that this methodology for remotely detecting plume temperatures based on spectral broadening in the CO 2 emission spectra is sound The spatial profiles of CO 2 concentration pathlengths for the jet engine exhaust with the e ngine running at high, medium and low fuel flow rates are presented in the top, middle, and bottom images of Figure 9, respectively. As with plume temperature, the spatial maps of plume CO 2 concentration pathlengths exhibit the expected trends. The plume generated by the engine with 300 cm 3 min fuel flow contains the largest concentration pathlengths of CO 2 The plumes generated by the engine at medium and low fuel flow rates have similar spatial features, with CO 2  concentration pathlengths progressively lower and mixing with atmospheric CO 2 closer to the engine exit. Although absolute CO 2 concentration pathlengths were not computed the trends exhibited in the profile of CO 2 concentration pathlength provides evidence that the method used for remotely detecting CO 2 concentration pathlength is sound 5  C ONCLUSIONS  Spatial profiles of plume temperature and CO 2  concentration pathlength for all plume pixels were calculated using least-squares fitting to a simple model based on the strong spectral signatures of the hot CO 2 in the engine exhaust plume. Nonplume pixels were not well characterized by the plume model, although they provided a reasonable estimate of the background scene. As observed in the representative plume sp ectra of Figure 3, spectral signatures of CO and H 2 O do not appear to be easily distinguished from the instrument noise level. As such, this aspect of the research was omitted at this phase, with a plan in place to collect data at 1 cm 1 spectral resolution over a longer period of time with an improved instrument calibration method in the near future. Improvements in the post-processing methods empl oyed, accompanied by better 


  6 spectral resolution, will likely re sult in more accurate spatial profiles of temperature and concentration pathlengths for all chemicals of interest. In addition, a comparison of engine exhaust for diesel and kerosene fuel will be investigated Figure 8 \226 Spatial map of relative plume temperature for jet engine exhaust with engine operating with fuel flow rate of 300 cm 3 min \(top 3 min \(middle and 150 cm 3 min \(bottom  Note the presence of nonplume pixels below row 100 and in the top left corner of each image scene  Figure 9 \226 Spatial map of relative CO 2 concentration pathlength for jet engine exhaust with engine operating at fuel flow rates of 300 cm 3 min \(top 3 min middle 3 min \(bottom  


  7 R EFERENCES    Kevi n C Gross, Gl en P. Perram 223Phenom enol ogi cal  Fireball Model for Remote Identi 336 cation of HighExplosives,\224 Proc. SPIE, Vol. 6566, 656613 \(2007   Andrew R. Harvey Da vid W. Fletcher-Holmes 223Birefringent Fourier-transfo rm imaging spectrometer,\224 Optics Express, Vol. 12, No. 22: 5368-5374 \(2004   Sergey  A Tashkun, Val e ry I. Pereval ov, Jean-Luc Teffo Alexander D. Bykov, and N. N. Lavrentieva. \223CDSD1000, the high-temperature carbon dioxide spectroscopic databank\224. Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy Radiative Transfer, Vol. 82:165\226196 \(2003  B e rnat h, Pet e r F. Spect ra of At om s and M o l ecul e s New York: Oxford University Press \(1995 B IOGRAPHY  Kenneth C. Bradley is a Doctoral Candidate at the Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. He is conducting his doctoral research in the area of hyperspectral imaging as it applies to remote sensing of chemical plumes using an Imaging Fourier Transform Spectrometer IFTS\in the midwave infrared MWIR\. He was previously assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory, Muniti ons Directorate, where he served as Deputy Branch Chie f of the Fuzes Branch with the responsibility of developi ng fuze technology for future conventional weapon systems  Spencer Bowen is a student of applied physics at the Air Force Institute of Technology \(AFIT focusing his research efforts in the hyperspectral analysis of turbojet and turbofan exhaust plumes Previously, he served as a program manager in the Air Force Research Laboratory Directed Energy Directorate. He holds a BS in physics from the University of Washington    Kevin C. Gross is an Assistant Professor of Physics at the Air Force Institute of Technology Wright-Patterson Air Force Base Ohio. He graduated from the same school with a PhD in Physics in September 2007. His research interests include remote sensing spectroscopy, combustion, and detection-classification problems He is currently advising seve ral MS and PhD students, and teaches courses in quantum mechanics and spectroscopy  Michael A. Marciniak received his BS degree in mathematicsphysics from St. Joseph\222s College in 1981, his BSEE degree from the University of Missouri-Columbia in 1983, and his MSEE and PhD degrees from the Air Force Institute of Technology \(AFIT\n 1987 and 1995, respectively. He is a retired Air Force Lieutenant Colonel and currently an associate professor of engineering physics at AFIT with resear ch interests in optical and infrared signatures and opto-electronic material and device physics  Glen P. Perram is a Professor of Physics at the Air Force Institute of Technology WrightPatterson Air Force Base, Ohio. As an experimentalist in the area of chemical physics, his research interests include high power chemical lasers, including the Chemical Oxygen-Iodine Laser and the Airborne Laser, infrared gasphase lasers for counter-measur e missions, reaction kinetics atomic and molecular spectroscopy, environmental science photochemistry, molecular dynamics, optical diagnostics and remote sensing. He has r eceived 20 research grants and published over 60 articles in applied physics and optics During his 19 years on the AFIT faculty he has advised 16 PhD and 28 MS students and t eaches graduate courses in quantum mechanics, spectroscopy lasers, chemical kinetics space surveillance, atmospheri c chemistry and optics. Dr Perram is a registered professi onal engineer in the State of Ohio with a specialization in environmental engineering   


  8  


t rnast M ilitairAs set y6eo Pop0U lbtthFeAtU rt i eO StifiCiAlliEMLilfE  ge.o Sb4toialFet atu re gepo 4 nece ssarfl a where possible imported into the ontologies to leverage 27 and the Ilium Geo ontology incorporates concepts from those standards and improve long-term compatibility with and may import the Open Geographic Modeling Language other ontologies that reference those standards Thus the ontology 28 29 Figure 6 depicts a view of the IliumAsset Ilium Asset ontology incorporates process and service Ontology in the Editor concepts from the NIST Process Specification Language 26 l E tit  dij~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai 1etn ast:PhysicaIA d d Age ast As&etT&enporaryPaet of being able to tan ast ConstrUctionAs set Axiom a ast inatr rtnMnanagere ntAs'r aL tT dl:PhysicalArtiba astAs ctCn p o r i9 n{r o bo HydruogeI cFeatu0re A fmiport  intan TrashportationFeatrF e tu eer PrperIies Fb r r n I R s v dul Sub c tance ne nt particu[ar ncie ih I a.sttMa.rmagenieiAset asti--com-a3 b nt:r-participa p 0 o aslttPlig\247izallAl5tt     t40b Tityli olf tht d b E h dul Inbor aiorealizatic.n Anno tiE S dul Ob jct dfWg,iSX aAssot duI PhysIcalArti Ict services tiA impl In such na iceqaric nt hysical asset dul WgPh5 scaIObt thAt is intehold some hurman or g d u IPhyiaIA9cnt tpical1 is ast-Transp rttiobnAss gesp nat rFa&tUre L Nig 4 VQAV    AdUA   AdviUAV Figure 6 Iliun Below the Middle layer are found domain specific ontologies that mirror and extend the ontological perspectives of the Middle layer We currently have developed a layer of Military OWL ontologies to serve as domain models for a number of legacy operations analysis simulations aeronautical engineering design tools and software prototypes that are used to support the integrated design and development of aeronautical systems For example the MilAsset ontology models military platforms command and control systems and similar physical assets a specialized extension of that describes concepts peculiar to Unmanned Aircraft n Asset Ontology Figure 7 depicts a view of the MillAsset ontology in the Editor Concepts and Properties with the prefix mast are elements of the MilAsset ontology In this view specialized classes formilitary ManeuverableAircraft are depicted as sub-classes of FixedWingAircraft and a large number current maneuverable aircraft types are specified Aircraft types may have specialized models that describe for example sensor configurations or performance characteristics of interest that are particular to one or more plug-ins In this view of the editor an number of model relationships are visible in the Properties window at the right of the frame In the SPARQL panel at the bottom a 9 


SPARQL query discussed in more detail in Section 6 has retrieved the SEAS Plane model information for a particular F-15 instance gure  Mvlititary Asset utnology A number of other military ontologies also exist The MilOrg ondology describes military and related political organizations as well as particular Roles they play in military affairs Tasks they are required to perform and specialized military Actions that perform them MilGeo defines a military perspective on geography with emphasis on terrain polpulation and cultural features of interest to military operations MilGeo contains classes that describe military facilities including Forts Airbases NavalPorts and Forward Operating Locations The MilSit ontology describes Conflicts Campaigns Missions Plans and similar concepts It also defines exactly what constitutes a situation and classifies various types of situations Specialized ontologies relating to military information and communications exist and may be imported in some cases to provide increased detail for those concerns Finally to support military Modeling and Simulation applications the MilSim ontology provides a platform for importing relevant ontologies for a particular study or exercise and a location to create concepts peculiar to individual simulations 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


