IEEE International Conference on Advances in Engineering & Technology Research \(ICAETR - 2014 August 01-02, 2014, Dr. Virendra Swarup Group of Institutions, Unnao, India 978-1-4799-6393-5/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE Association Rule Mining for Web Usage Data to Improve Websites  Avadh Kishor Singh  Faculty of Computer Science Engineering Shri Ramswaroop Memorial University, UP, India avadhkishorsingh03@gmail.com   Ajeet Kumar Faculty of Computer Science Engineering Shri Ramswaroop Memorial University, UP, India azit21152@gmail.com   Ashish K. Maurya  Faculty of Computer Science Engineering 
Shri Ramswaroop Memorial University, UP, India er.ashishmaurya@gmail.com  Abstract Association rule mining along with frequent items has been comprehensively research in data mining. In this paper, we proposed a model for association rules to mine the generated frequent k-itemset. We take this process as extraction of rules which expressed most useful information Therefore, transactional knowledge of using websites is considered to solve the purpose. In this paper we use interestingness measure that plays an important role in invalid rules thereby reducing the size of rule data sets. The 
performance analysis attempted with Apriori, most frequent rule mining algorithm and interestingness measure to compare the efficiency of websites. The proposed work reduces large number of immaterial rules and produces new set of rules with interesting measure. Our extensive experiments will use relevant rule mining to enhance websites and data accuracy  Keywordó Association Rules, Apriori Algorithm Frequent Pattern, Support Count, Confidence, Lift I  I NTRODUCTION  Association rule mining is a data mining method originally invented to extract patterns from transactional 
databases. Stated simply, an association rule is an implication in the form X Y, where X and Y are sets of items. Association rule mining identifies all such implications existing in a given data set, which satisfy certain constraints, such as minimal support and minimal confiden  We will use APRIORI and FP-Growth algorithm as a pattern discovery tool and pattern analysis on found patterns is the next task. Patterns analysis will perform on found patterns with the help of generated association rules between item sets \(web links A  Frequent Pattern Mining A pattern is a group of items, subsequenceís, and composition that frequently occur in an item set. Frequent 
Pattern Mining is a heavily researched area in field of data mining and is applied in extensive range of application one of them is to exploit frequent pattern discovery methods in web. Web logs are interesting and useful knowledge in way of web accesses patterns mined [2  B  Association Rule Mining Association rule mining finds interesting association or correlation relationships among a large set of data items. A typical example of an association rule mining is market basket analysis. This process analyzes customer buying habits by finding associations between the different items that customers place in their ìshopping basketsî. The 
discovery of such associations can help retailers to develop marketing strategies by gaining insight into which items are frequently purchased together by customers. Apriori is a classical algorithm for mining association rules. Some variations of the Apriori approach for improving the efficiency of the mining process are referred to as Aprioribased mining algorithms An association rule is defined as follows: Let I = {i 1  i n be a set of items, and T = {t 1 t m a set of transactions where each transaction t i consists of a subset of items in I An association rule is then an implication of the form  X         Y, X I , Y 
I, X Y   An item set X has support s in T if s% of the transactions in T contains X. An item set X is frequent if its support is higher than the user specified minimum support The rule X Y holds in T with confidence c if c% of transactions in T that contain X also contain Y The problem of mining association rules is to generate a set of potentially interesting association rules in a data set of sessions that have support higher than the specified minimum support threshold and assign an interestingness value to all rules based on an interestingness measure II  R ELATED 
W ORK  Due to the immense volume of Internet usage and web browsing in recent years, log files generated by web servers contain enormous amounts of web usage data that is potentially valuable for understanding the behaviour of website visitors. Knowledge can be applied in various ways such as enhancing the effectiveness of websites through user personalization or developing directed web marketing campaigns n i n teres t i ngn es s  m eas u r e is a fu n c tio n th a t  assigns a value to each association rule, which corresponds 


IEEE International Conference on Advances in Engineering & Technology Research \(ICAETR - 2014 August 01-02, 2014, Dr. Virendra Swarup Group of Institutions, Unnao, India 978-1-4799-6393-5/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE to the web usage rule interestingness. Various interestingness measures can be used when the association rules are discovered to qualify the potential interestingness of the association rules and highlight potentially interesting rules for the data analyst c ov ering  w e b us ag e  association rules is one of the popular data mining methods that can be applied on the web usage log data. Given information contained in association rules can be used to learn about website visitor behavior patterns, enhance website structure making it more effective for the visitors or improve web marketing campaign i n d i n g of bas i c  problem with association rule discovery is that when Mining Algorithms are on web access logs, the total number of generated rules is found to be very large. Confidence and lift are the association rule interestingness measures that are used to compare values in two different time duration Association rule mining of the web usage log files can be used to extract patterns of a website visitorís behavior. This knowledge can them be utilized to enhance web marketing strategies or improves the web browsing experien h e process of discovering hidden patterns and information from the existing data are us  T h e dif f e ren ce bet w een data in the databases and a data warehouse is in a database the data is in the structured form where as in the data warehouse the data may or may not be present in the structured form 9], th e a u t h ors cons idered th e  changes of the association rule interestingness values in two different time periods. The goal was to determine the minimum number of requests needed to distinguish between robot and non-robot sessions from web server logs with high accuracy. After pre-processing the web server logs to identify access sessions, a set of features is extracted to characterize the access session. These features include total pages, total time, average time, request method, request error and so on [9 n o v e l  m e t h od f o r m i n i ng ass o ci at i on rules from semantic instance data repositories express in RDF/\(S\nd OWL c c o rdi n g t o  A u t h ors  pu t  f o r w ard an incremental updating algorithm for mining indirect association rules to deal with the maintenance of discovered indirect association rules resulted from the change of the minimum support T h e au t h ors h a v e m e nt i ons  i m prov e  the efficiency of association rule mining in distributed environment by deploying intelligent agents for the mining frequent item sets and generate association rule [12 A u th o r  define an algorithm for class association rule mining with chi-squared test using GNP and present a classifier using these extracted rules A u t h or h a s propos ed at t w o problems of discovering frequent item sets in a large database and mining association rules from frequent item sets, I make some research on mining frequent item sets algorithm based on Apriori algorithm and mining association rules algorithm based on improved measure system. Mining association rules algorithm based on support, confidence and interestingness is improved, aiming at creating interestingness useless rules and losing useful rules  The authors have discussed a model which is an integration between two algorithms, the Positive Negative Association Rule \(PNAR\lgorithm and the Interesting Multiple Level Minimum Supports \(IMLMS\orithm, to propose a new approach \(PNAR_IMLMS\for mining both negative and positive association rules from the interesting frequent and infrequent item sets mined by the IMLMS model III  P ROPOSED M ODEL F OR A SSOCIATION R ULE M INING  In the web log extractor, we will take care of session management of web links that is visited by user. And in data pre-processing module we will use some freely available data mining software systems that can be used for discovering association rules in the web log usage data. For this we will use C++ language or WUM prep scripts for web log pre-processing. The process to implement a new \(and simple\web association rule mining system Figure 1   IPs & accessed web    Feedback Find K-Item sets  Extract of Rules Figure 1 Proposed Model We designed an efficient web association rule mining system, best way to find areas where exactly improvement is needed. After finding, make a conscious how it can be improvement. Following are the phase, which need to be take care during system development   Web log Extractor Module: We have developed this web extractor to extract the IPs and Web links from a web log file. It gives a File 1, which is used as an input for data preprocessing module   Data Preprocessing Module: This is a program which is developed by us to make input file containing navigational profile entries for APRIORI. We used link list data structure to solve our purpose. This Data preprocessing module produces an input file for APRIORI which contains entry of different navigational profile. Here each IP works as user id and web links as item sets  Web Log Data Web Log Extractor \(1 Preprocessing 2 Transactional Data of different users Apriori / FPGrowth \(3 Association Rule Mine \(4 Information 5 


IEEE International Conference on Advances in Engineering & Technology Research \(ICAETR - 2014 August 01-02, 2014, Dr. Virendra Swarup Group of Institutions, Unnao, India 978-1-4799-6393-5/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE Apriori or FP Growth Algorithm Module: If a set cannot pass a test, all of its superset will fail the same test as well It is called anti-monotone because the property is monotonic in the context of failing a test  Apriori uses above property to find L\(k\ from L\(k-1\ two step process is followed which consists of join and prune operations Confidence Calculation The procedure for calculating the confidence is as follows procedure   For each frequent item set l generate all nonempty subsets of l   For every nonempty subset s of l output the rule s  ls if support_count\(l  support_count\(s  min_confwhere min_confis minimum confidence threshold  The equation for confidence is Confidence\(X      Y\ = Tuples containing both X and Y/ Tuples containing X   1 Lift Calculation Lift is an interestingness measure of an association rule that compares the rule confidence to the expected rule confidence  The expected confidence of a rule X Y in a set of sessions D is the probability of the rule con-sequent Y in D. If the probability P\(Y\ual to the conditional probability     P \(Y|X\e item sets X and Y are not correlated in D   If Supp denotes candidate support, the following   formula can be used to calculate the lift of the rule X Y Lift \(X        Y\ = conf\(X        Y\ / Supp\(Y\         \(2      Association Rule Generation Module: This module find out the association rules in between frequent mining pattern results. K-item set results will work as a input to association rule miner and it will give patterns as a output with their confidence value    Information  This module defines the process of knowledge discovery. Knowledge is derived with the help of extraction of rule those satisfy minimum confidence below this minimum confidence other rules has been ruled out. So, now knowledge may help in finding out the strongly occurring patterns   Now, we going to discuss about working of the system Consider the figure 1 for working of the system   The process starts with collecting a log file from a web server. This log file is fed to the Web log Extractor. The first task of Extractor is extraction of IPs; Web links from log file and write these entries in a file \(1   Now fed this file \(1\ transaction maker. This Data preprocessing module is developed by us to handle IPs and their respective web links. Data pre-processing module maintain an entry of IPs and their web links in a Link List. It performs its job in following steps a  It assigns each different IP a different transaction number and add all different item sets \(web links\ accessed by this IP to the particular transaction b  Check for every entry that if IP already exists in list then simply add web link to that navigational profile otherwise declare it a new navigational profile. For a particular navigational profile, if a web link already exists in profile then no need to add this rep eated web link \(which comes as a new entry with same web link address\ to navigational profile c  Write each different transaction in a new line with its accessed item sets \(web links\. So, now it produces File 2\ containing entry of transactions d  We have got File \(2\ as an output of Data preprocessing module. Fed this File \(2\ Apriori produces the different item set mining results. It calculates Support count for every item set mining result. It counts support for 1-itemset, 2-itemsetÖkitem set. Value of k depends on max number of item sets those may occur together in a transaction e  Write these all different web links \(item set\ mining result to a File \(3 f  Now the next task is to find out patterns and analysis of patterns with the help of different association rules Rule miner generates rule according to minimum confidence given. Our purpose here to find some strong patterns those are occurring as an output of rule miner Finally, get some strongly occurring patterns on the basis of knowledge we got IV  I MPLEMENTATION A ND R ESULT A NALYSIS  To evaluate the performance of the proposed approach there must have an understanding of pattern analysis of actual container files. Web log files are downloaded from Web to make navigational profile in from of IPs and Web links. We have taken hundred or more entries in log files However, number of log entries can be increased to expand frequent item set mining results The different values of minimum support have been used for APRIORI to find frequent item set mining results The Threshold for support count can be defined as = ceil value of \(minimum support c ount * number of transactions below this threshold no item set sequence will occur as a kitem set mining result We have assigned a web link unique integer value. So now we deal with these numerical item sequences of different navigational profiles. Results for different values of minimum support are shown in this Table I the number of unique navigational patterns \(p\ used are: 34 Table I Minimum Support Value Minimum support  Total support count\( in terms of number of unique navigational profiles 1 ñ 2 0.01 to 0.02\ 34 = 1 3 ñ 5 0.03 to 0.05\ 34 =  2 6 ñ 8 0.06 to 0.08\ 34 = 3 9 ñ 11 0.09 to 0.11\ 34 = 4 12 ñ 14 0.12 to 0.14\ 34 = 5 15 ñ 17 0.15 to 0.17\ 34 = 6 18 ñ 20 0.18 to 0.20\ 34 = 7 21 ñ 23 0.21 to 0.23\34  = 8 


IEEE International Conference on Advances in Engineering & Technology Research \(ICAETR - 2014 August 01-02, 2014, Dr. Virendra Swarup Group of Institutions, Unnao, India 978-1-4799-6393-5/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE  We design part covers the architecture implementation and the working of the system. In this section we will take a look at the tool used in the implementation and implementation issue. We have used Apriori to find out different itemset mining result. Apriori also provide support count for different item sets sequence. A minimum support count is given as a part of input to Apriori. Association Rule Miner is used to find out the pattern with the help of association Rule.  We decide the strongly occurring pattern with the help of threshold value of confidence and Lift  We have defined access of web log file, after extraction given user id accessed web link assign its own unique number given below Table II Table II Access web link User id or IP address Accessed web link assigned Unique number 1 \(80.170.104.145 1 2\(80.170.104.147\ 1 3\(80.170.104.148\ 1 4\(81.241.83.239 2 3 1 4 5 5\(81.241.83.240\ 4 We applied Apriori Algorithm to find out k-item set mining result given Table III  Table III K-item set Frequent Item sets Item sequence\(Support Count 1 3\(3 8\(2 2 8 3\(2 3 5\(2  We inputted minimum support 0.3 find out frequent item sets, so we get result Table IV Table IV Finding Item Sequence Frequent Item sets Item sequence\(Support Count 1 8\(2 2 10 13\(2 3 8 10 13\(2 4 8 10 13\(2 8 10 7 4\(2 8 10 3 7\(2  We finding short association Rule is of the form X Y X and Y is sub items of the 4- frequent Item set occurrence transaction 10 times so confidence 100% possibility to be next web pages or item accessed. X and Y are one next to each other on the web link, 2- Frequent item set will be confidence 50  The different values of minimum support have been used for Apriori to find frequent item set mining results The threshold for support c ount can be defined as = ceil value of \(minimum support count * number of transaction below this threshold no item set sequences will occur as a kitem set mining result. Now, the next task is to find out association rules between web links. With the help of association rule miner we find the different association rules  We have eliminated the following five rules and introduced their cluster representatives. We used below \(Fig 5.5\onfidence of all eliminated rules is close, which means they all fit into parameter    Search.doc/ home.asp ==> /Search.asp login.asp,conf: 0.98   Search.doc/home.asp  == > / login.asp,conf: 0.98   Search.doc / Search.doc   /home.asp   login.asp,conf: 0.98   Search.doc/home.asp  == > / login.asp,conf: 0.98   Search.doc/home.asp  == > /Search.asp login.asp,conf: 0.84 The cluster representative of the five eliminated rules is   Search.doc/ home.asp == > / login.asp,conf: 0.91 We have eliminated the following three rules and introduced their cluster representative. The confidence of all eliminated rules is close, which means they are all fit into the parameter   Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc// login.asp,conf: 0.69   Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc/ / login.asp,conf: 0.64   Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc Search.doc  login.asp,conf: 0.64 The cluster representative of the three eliminated rules is Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc/ / login.asp,conf: 0.66 We find out Association Rules with their confidence capable of handling very large number of log entries. Itís shown below Table V Table V Association Rules with Their Confidence Association Rules Confidence 3=>7 100 13=>4 40 3=>4 66 7=>4 25 13=>3 33 13=>7 50  We have eliminated the following five rules and introduced their cluster representatives. We use Lift of all eliminated rules is close, which means they all fit into parameter   Search.doc/ home.asp ==> /Search.asp/ login.asp, Lift 0.96   Search.doc/home.asp  == > / login.asp, Lift : 0.96   Search.doc/ Search.doc   /home.asp   login.asp, Lift: 0.96   Search.doc/home.asp  == > / login.asp, Lift: 0.96   Search.doc/home.asp  == > /Search.asp/ login.asp Lift: 0.83 The cluster representative of the five eliminated rules is   Search.doc/ home.asp == > / login.asp, Lift: 0.90 We have eliminated the following three rules and introduced their cluster representative. The Lift of all eliminated rules is close, which means they are all fit into the parameter 


IEEE International Conference on Advances in Engineering & Technology Research \(ICAETR - 2014 August 01-02, 2014, Dr. Virendra Swarup Group of Institutions, Unnao, India 978-1-4799-6393-5/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE   Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc// login.asp, Lift: 0.68   Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc/ / login.asp, Lift: 0.63   Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc/  / Search.doc/ / login.asp Lift: 0.63 The cluster representative of the three eliminated rules is   Logout.asp == >/ Search.doc/ / login.asp, Lift: 0.65 We find out Association Rules with their confidence capable of handling very large number of log entries. Itís shown below Table VI Table VI Association Rules with Their Lift Association Rules Lift 10 7 4=>3 100 13 7 4=>3 50 7=>5 14 4=>10 12 5=>4 66 13=>10 33  In our experiments, we found that support value higher than 0.01 generate too few rules leaving many potentially interesting rules out of the rule data set. We conducted two experiments setting the minimum support threshold value and compared the resulting association rules and their interestingness measure In the second phase, our software generates potentially interesting association rules and calculates their interestingness measures, based on the frequent item sets and their support One of the basic association rule interestingness measures is confidence, and we consider its minimum threshold when evaluating the value of the calculated rule interestingness. We found that in all our experiments the rules whose confidence was lower than 0.4 were extremely rarely truly interesting according to our definition Therefore, we chose to set the minimum confidence threshold to 0.3 and out all the rules that have lower confidence We used Confidence and Lift as two different interestingness measures of the generated association rules and compare their values to the true rule interestingness based on Support threshold. Similar approach was taken in Dimitrijevic and Bosnjak \(2011\ where top 10 rules were classified as interest-ing or not interesting by a domain expert Our results are more stable, while the rule set is not cluttered by too many not truly interesting rules. Figure 2 shows that both Confidence and Lift perform satisfactory while Lift fairly outperforms Confidence in all our experiments In figure 2, we analyzed the distribution of the peak five rules according to Lift and Confidence over the true interesting-ness categories. The horizontal axis corresponds to the number of peak five rules in each category and vertical axis corresponds to the occurrence based on support value. When the rules are sorted according to Confidence and Lift, most of the top five rules with different support values are based on frequent item sets   Figure 2. Performance based comparison of support threshold   Figure 3. Five Association Rules according to Confidence & Lift Figure 3 shows the five association rules which are sorted according to confidence an d lift i.e. almost all of the peak five rules fit into threshold occurrence the true interestingness with different support values. There were no rules in the peak five that can be based on a web log server  V  C ONCLUSION   In this research an approach to identify web link patterns which has been developed from web log and analysis of patterns is presented .The frequent item set mining has been performed with the help of Apriori 


IEEE International Conference on Advances in Engineering & Technology Research \(ICAETR - 2014 August 01-02, 2014, Dr. Virendra Swarup Group of Institutions, Unnao, India 978-1-4799-6393-5/14/$31.00 ©2014 IEEE algorithm. It gives us different frequent item set mining results with their support count. Web link sequences below support threshold are pruned. We found different frequent item set mining results by varying minimum support \(2%3%\ssociation rules miner give all the possible rules with their confidence and Lift. Using the knowledge of the web site structure and the behavior of the siteís visitors, we analyzed the pruned rule set from the user ës point of view and proposed actions that a webmaster may decide to take based on knowledge extracted from rules in order to enhance a website and improve visitorís browsing experience. The work can be fu rther extended by developing even more effective data pre-processing modules. Because the current module \(2\ot capable of handle very large number of log entries. Association rule mining of web usage log files is a method that can bring new, previously unknown knowledge about the website visitor behavior. In this research we presented how it can be used by a webmaster to improve a website structure. We leave such analysis out of the scope of this research. Future work in this area may also consider the scalability issue R EFERENCES  1  R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski and A. Swami, ìMining association rules between sets of items in large databasesî In Proceeding of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data \(ICMD\, USA, pp. 207ñ216, 1993 2  P.Tan, V. Kumar, and J. Srivastava, ìSelecting the right interestingness measure for asso ciation patternsî Information Systems, Proceeding of the International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDDM\ New York pp. 32-41, 2002 3  R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant, ìFast Algorithms for Mining Association Rulesî Proceeding of the 20 th International Conference on Very Large Databases \(VLDB\ 1215, Sanjosh CA, pp. 487-499, 1994 4  Cooley, R., Mobasher, B., and J. Srivastava, ìGrouping web page references into transactions for mining World Wide Web browsing patternsî Proceeding of the IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop \(KDEEW\, Newport Beach, CA, pp 2-9,1997 5  E.R. Omiecinski, ìAlternative interest measures for mining associations in databasesî IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol.15, Issue 1, pp. 57-69, 2003 6  S. S.Anand, M. Mulvenna, and K. Chavielier ìOn the deployment of web usage miningî Berlin Springer Heidelberg, 2004 7  L.Cristofor and D.Simovici, ìGenerating an informative cover for association rulesî Proceeding of the IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM\, Boston, USA, pp. 597600, 2002 8  M.S.B. PhridviRaj and C.V.GuruRao, ìData mining ñ past present and future ñ a typical survey on data Streams Proceeding of the 7th International Conference Interdisciplinarity in Engineering Procedia Technology ICIEPT\, Romania, pp. 255 ñ 263, 2014 9  M.L. Shyu, C. Haruechaiyasak, S.C.Chen and N. Zhao Collaborative Filtering by Mining Association Rules from User Access Sequencesî Proceeding of the IEEE International workshop on Web Information Retrieval and Integration IWIRI\, Tokyo, pp. 128-135, 2005 10  V. Nebot and R.Berlanga ìFinding association rules in semantic web dataî Knowledge Based system \(Elsevier pp.51-62, 2012 11  Cheng and Zheng ìAn Incremental Updating Technique for Mining Indirect Association Rules  Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, pp.12-15, 2008 12  A.Saleem Raja, E.George and Dharma Prakash Raj ìMADARM: Mobile Agent based Distributed Association Rule Miningî IEEE International Conference on Computer Communication and Informatics \(ICCCI\ Coimbatore, pp. 15, 2013 13  K. Shimada, K. Hirasawa, and J. Hu ìClass Association Rule Mining with Chi-Squared TestUsing Genetic Network ProgrammingîProceeding of the IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Taiwan pp.5338-5344, 2006 14  W. Pei-ji1,B. Jin-niu and Z. Yu-lin ìMining Association Rules Based on Apriori Algorithm and Application Proceeding of the International Forum on Computer ScienceTechnology and Applications, Chongqing, pp.141-143, 2009 15 I Mo ha m m a d  A  Ba k a r a nd A  Su ha ilis    A b d u l Ka dir  Mining Positive and Negative Association Rules from Interesting Frequent and Infrequent Itemsetsî 9th International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery \(FSKD\, Sichuan, pp.650-655, 2012       


of 0.1 the analyst will ha v e to analyze only 9 itemsets and get a good idea of the content of about one fth of the itemsets Since DIM pro vides fe w itemsets one may w onder if the amount of information pro vided by these itemsets can be also obtained by taking the top p here top is considered w r t support v alue itemsets produced by LCM where p is equal to the number of itemsets produced by DIM T able II gi v es reco v erability for the top p for each dataset precision is by deﬁnition 100 in this case the accidents mum support of 10 DIM outputs 9 itemsets so we tak e the top 9 itemsets from the results of LCM and compute their reco v erability  which is 13 The reco v erability of the top p itemsets of LCM is more than 4 times lo wer than those of DIM in real datasets In the synthetic dataset ho we v er  the impro v ement is mar ginal The table in general conﬁrms tha t DIM itemsets con v e y more information than traditional top p techniques Dataset p min-supp LCM DIM pumsb 7 40 15 72 accidents 9 10 13 67 T40I10D100k 9 0.1 12 18 T able II Comparing top-p LCM closed itemsets with DIM itemsets VII C ON CLU SION AN D F UT URE W OR K In this study  we ha v e e xamined the problem of frequent itemset mining through decomposi tion of the input matrix Using theoretic al analysis we ha v e sho wn that matrix decomposition can help us mining frequent itemsets Our e xperiments ha v e sho wn that although for high support v alues our approach is less time ef cient than stateof-the-art algorithms for lo w support v alues our approach is much f aster than those algorithms This approach is also highly scalable with respect to other algorithms according to the f act that the classical itemset mining approaches become v ery slo w since the y need to e xplore a huge combinatorial space as the number of items increases The proposed method only nds a handful of itemsets b ut the e xperiments sho w that these itemsets con v e y a signiﬁcant portion of the information of all frequent itemsets W e adv ocate that contrary to classical methods the mining time is well in vested  what is the utility of a v ery f ast algorithm that outputs millions of patterns that an analyst will tak e hours to mak e some sense of W ith our method the computer does most of the w ork and the analyst is presented with concise reliable and manageable information This w ork opens man y future research directions such as studying the nature of the itemsets not reco v ered by our method or charac terizing the set of frequent itemsets obtained from latent f actors with respect to the sets of frequent itemsets found by methods such as 5 do such methods also re-disco v er the latent f actors R EF E REN CES 1 R Agra w al and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining assoin Pr oc of the 20th International Confer ence on V ery Lar g e Databases VLDB 94  Chile 1994 2 A Inokuchi T  W ashio and H Motoda  An apriori-based algorithm for mi ning frequent substructures from graph data  in PKDD  2000 pp 13–23 3 N P asquier  Y  Bastide R T aouil L and Lakhal Disco vering frequent closed itemsets for association rules  in oc of 7th international confer ence of database theory 1999 4 T  Uno M Kiyomi and H Arimura Lcm v er  2 Ef cient mining algorithms for frequent/closed/maximal itemsets  in Pr oc of the ICDM W orkshop FIMI 04 2004 5 J Vreek en M v an Leeuwen and A Siebes Krimp mining itemsets that compress  Data Min Knowl Disco v  23 no 1 pp 169–214 2011 6 T  Guns S Nijssen and L D Raedt k-pattern set mining under constraints  KU Leuv en T ech Rep CW 596 2010 7 M K o yuturk A Grama and N Ramakrsihnan Compression clustering and pattern disco v ery in v ery-highdimensional discrete-attrib ute dat a sets  Knowledg e Data Eng  v ol 17 pp 447–461 2005 8 P  Jiang J Peng M Heath and R Y ang  A clustering approach to constrained binary matrix f actorization  in Data Mining and Knowledg e Dis co very for Big Data  2014 pp 281–303 9 R Gupta G F ang B Field M Steinbach and V  K umar  Quantitati v e e v aluation of approximate frequent pattern minin 08  Las V e g as Ne v ada USA 2000 10 B Bringmann and A Zimmermann The chosen fe w On identifying v aluable patterns  in ICDM 63–72 11 F  Afrati A Gionis and H Mannila  Approximating a collection of frequent sets  in 04  Seattle W ashington 12–19 12 P  Kra jca J Outrata and V  Vychodil Using frequent closed itemsets for data dimensionality reduction  in ICDM 2011 13 P  Miettinen The boolean col umn and column-ro w matrix  Data Mining and Knowledg e Disco very  v ol 17 no 1 pp 39–56 2008 14 T  Uno M Kiyomi and H Arimura Lcm v er 3 Collaboration of array  bitmap and preﬁx tree for frequent itemset mining  in 05  2005 pp 77–86 


002 
                          
R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases. In Proc. VLDB, pages 487Ö499, 1994 2 R. J. Bayardo, Jr. Efficiently mining long patterns from databases SIGMOD Rec., pages 85Ö93, 1998 3 M. Zaki, S. Parthasarathy, M. Ogihara, and W. Li. Parallel algorithms for discovery of association rules. Data Min. and Knowl. Disc., pages 343Ö373, 1997 4 J. Dean and S. Ghemawat. MapReduce: Simplified data processing on large clusters. In Proc. OSDI. USENIX Association, 2004 5 Apache hadoop. http://hadoop.apache.org/, 2013 6 Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber. Data Mining, Concepts and Techniques. Morgan Kaufmann, 2001 7 M. Zaharia, M. Chowdhury, T. Das, A. Dave, J. Ma, M. McCauley M. Franklin, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica. Resilient distributed datasets A fault-tolerant abstraction for in-memory cluster computing Technical Report UCB/EECS-2011-82, EECS Department University of California, Berkeley, Jul 2011 8 M. Zaharia, M. Chowdhury, M. J. Franklin, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica Spark: Cluster Computing with Working Sets. In HotCloud, 2010 9 J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin: Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In: Proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 29\(2\:1-12, 2000 10 M. J. Zaki. Parallel and distributed association mining: A survey IEEE Concurrency, pages 14Ö25, 1999 11 J. Li, Y. Liu, W.-k. Liao, and A. Choudhary. Parallel data mining algorithms for association rules and clustering. In Intl. Conf. on Management of Data, 2008 12 E. Ozkural, B. Ucar, and C. Aykanat. Parallel frequent item set mining with selective item replication. IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib Syst., pages 1632Ö1640, 2011 13 B.-H. Park and H. Kargupta. Distributed data mining: Algorithms systems, and applications. 2002 14 L. Zeng, L. Li, L. Duan, K. Lu, Z. Shi, M. Wang, W. Wu, and P. Luo Distributed data mining: a survey. Information Technology and Management, pages 403Ö409, 2012 15 Li L. & Zhang M. \(2011\. The Strategy of Mining Association Rule Based on Cloud Computing. Proceeding of the 2011 International Conference on Business Computing and Global Informatization BCGIN è11\. Washington, DC, USA, IEEE: 475- 478 16 Li N., Zeng L., He Q. & Shi Z. \(2012\. Parallel Implementation of Apriori Algorithm Based on MapReduce. Proc. of the 13th ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Parallel & Distributed Computing SNPD è12\. Kyoto, IEEE: 236 Ö 241 17 Lin M., Lee P. & Hsueh S. \(2012\. Apriori-based Frequent Itemset Mining Algorithms on MapReduce. Proc. of the 16th International Conference on Ubiquitous Information Management and Communication \(ICUIMC è12\. New York, NY, USA, ACM: Article No. 76 18 Yang X.Y., Liu Z. & Fu Y. \(2010\. MapReduce as a Programming Model for Association Rules Algorithm on Hadoop. Proc. of the 3rd International Conference on Information Sciences and Interaction Sciences \(ICIS è10\. Chengdu, China, IEEE: 99 Ö 102 19 S. Hammoud. MapReduce Network Enabled Algorithms for Classification Based on Association Rules. Thesis, 2011 20 Synthetic Data Generation Code for Associations and Sequential Patterns. Intelligent Information Systems, IBM Almaden Research Center http://www.almaden.ibm.com/software/quest/Resources/index.shtml 21 C.L. Blake and C.J. Merz. UCI Repository of Machine Learning Databases. Dept. of Information and Computer Science, University of California at Irvine, CA, USA. 1998 http://www.ics.uci.edu/mlearn/MLRepository.html 22 HadoopApriori. https://github.com/solitaryreaper/HadoopApriori 2 3 H.V. Nguyen, E. Muller, K. Bohm. 4S: Scalable Subspace Search Schema Overcoming Traditional Apriori Processing. 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data. 2013 24 S. Moens, E. Aksehirli and Goethals. Frequent Itemset Mining for Big Data. University Antwerpen, Belgium. 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data. 2013 25 Y. Bu et al . HaLoop: E cient iterative data processing on large clusters. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, 3\(1-2\:285Ö296 2010 26 Frequent itemset mining dataset repository. http://fimi.us.ac.be/data 2004   
002 
Our experiments show that YAFIM is about 18 faster than Apriori algorithms implemented in MapReduce framework Furthermore, we can achieve a better performance in both sizeup and speedup for different datasets. In addition, we also evaluated YAFIM for medical application and revealed that YAFIM outperforms MRApriori about 25 speedup  A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work is funded in part by China NSF Grants \(No 61223003\, and the USA Intel Labs University Research Program R EFERENCES  1 
002 
1671 


