E-File Adoption: A Study of U.S. Taxpayers Intentions   Ludwig Christian Schaupp West Virginia University christian.schaupp@mail.wvu.edu Lemuria Carter North Carolina A&T State Univ ldcarte2@ncat.edu Jeff Hobbs Appalachian State University hobbsjc@appstate.edu   Abstract In the United States, congress has set goals for the diffusion of e-government initiatives.  One of congress  goals for 2007 was for 80% of  tax and informational returns to be filed electronically [1  Ho wever, to d a t e 
that goal has not been achieved.  This paper proposes a model of e-file adoption integrating the UTAUT model, online trust, perceived risk, and optimism bias into a comprehensive model of e-file adoption. To test the model a survey is administered to 260 U.S taxpayers.  The instrument assesses citizen perceptions of trust, risk, information technology adoption, and optimism bias. Structural equation modeling is used to evaluate relationships between these concepts and intention to use. Results indicate performance expectancy, social influence, facilitating conditions and optimism bias all have a significant impact on efile intention. Trust in the internet and trust in  e-filer were shown to significantly influence perceived risk Implications for practice and research are discussed  
 Keywords: E-Filing, IT Adoption, Optimism Bias     1. Introduction Since the global explosion and adoption of the Internet countless amounts of money have been spent on egovernment services worldwide. However, to date the results have been scattered and disappointing by most metrics. One thing that has become inherently clear is that setting up e-government systems simply to duplicate their brick and mortar equivalents is a tremendous waste of citizens time and money. An efficient effective e-government service is designed 
with the user in mind, not the bureaucrat. Successful egovernment initiatives are not all about the technology they involve rethinking and redesigning the way government operates. One issue that has continued to elude government agencies in their quest for egovernment adoption is the need for cohesive multichannel distribution. It should not make a difference whether a citizen contacts the government agency via the internet, telephone, in person, or in writing; the outcome should be the same and it should be done in an efficient and effective mann 
 To date, e-government websites have been more about quantity than they have about quality. In contrast, e-commerce has been a resounding a success by any metric. E-commerce has transformed industries such as travel. However, in contrast e-government initiatives have not seen nearly the success and to date has only proven to be extremely expensive. The underlying issue to date has not necessarily been a problem of design, but utilization. The key to successful e-government, are systems that are utilized and meet users needs 
 Today, governments in almost every advanced country house documents intended for the public online \(somewhere in cyberspace\his gives the citizen access to almost anything they might want It goes without saying that simply posting information online is not a guarantee of successful e-government being able to download a form does not mean that it gets filled out correctly and sent to the right place Making the right documents available is only part of it getting citizens to adopt the e-services has proven to be the lingering obstacle  According to Brown University 
s annual Global e-Government Study the United States ranked fourth out of 198 countries surveyed in global e government [3  A  fl a g s h i p p r oj e c t i n t h e U  S i s  usa.gov, which is critically acclaimed as the best single e-government website in the world. Its sole purpose is to provide information to citizens including links to over 100 online services, including links to renew a passport, download visa forms, etc. One electronic service that is receiving increased attention is e-filing The electronic filing of income tax returns \(the e-file 
program\ has grown into a Congressional initiative however, its outright adoption by citizens has yet to be fully achieved. E-filing has the potential to improve the overall process of tax filing for the individual filer while at the same time reducing the cost to both taxpayers and tax collection agencies  E-file services have been implemented with the goal of easing the burden on the taxpayer and increase compliance through the innovative use of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


technology h e In tern a l R e v e n u e  S e rv ice \(IR S   has a documented goal in which any exchange or transaction that currently occurs in person, over the phone or in writing can be accomplished electronically In response, congress set a goal of having 80% of all tax and informational returns filed electronically by 2007 T h e u s e of IR S e ndors ed ef i l e sy st e m s h a s continued to grow over the last couple of years with 52.9 million individual returns being filed in 2003 approximately 68 million in 2005 [5 d  approximately 80 million in 2007 [6 e v e r, th i s  still only accounts for a little more than 50% of the total number of returns. Thus, the government has fallen well short of the 80% goal and outright adoption by citizens remains elusive for the IRS  By most accounts the U.S. e-file program has largely been considered to be an e-government success story. The e-file program began in 1986 as a pilot project by the IRS and H&R Block in three cities Cincinnati, Phoenix, and Raleigh-Durham, NC.  25,000 tax returns were filed electronically that year.  In 1990 the e-file program went nationwide and has enjoyed tremendous growth. Yet, despite the impressive growth the IRS and Congress have not reached their published goal of 80% of all returns being filed electronically. In fact we are still well short of that goal The objectives of this study are   To identify the impact of the UTAUT factors on e-file adoption intention   To identify the impact of online trust perceptions on perceived risk and its influence on e-file adoption intention   To identify the impact of optimism bias on efile adoption intention Building on previous technology acceptance and egovernment studies, we develop a model aimed at further understanding U.S. taxpayers intention to use an e-file system. Specifically, a survey is conducted to examine taxpayers intentions to use an IRS endorsed e-file system. The U.S. e-file system is a prime example of a current e-government service where citizen adoption expectations are presently lagging behind. This paper contributes to the literature by empirically validating the UTAUT model in a voluntary usage e-government service context. This study posits that by integrating literature on IT adoption \(UTAUT\line trust perceptions, perceived risk, and optimism bias researchers can gain a more comprehensive understanding of e-file adoption in the United States  The remainder of the paper proceeds as follows:  section 2 presents the theoretical foundations of the proposed research model. In section 3, we construct the research model and hypotheses. Section 4 describes the methodology used to empirically test the model.  The results are presented in section 5. We provide a discussion of the findings, an agenda for future research, and limitations in section 6. Finally concluding comments are presented in section 7  2. Theoretical Development How and why individuals choose to adopt new technologies has forever been the focal point of IS research. Within this broad area of research there is a core area of literature that focuses on intention. The Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology UTAUT\e most predominant and comprehensive theory existing in the literature to date. The UTAUT model is comprised of eight theoretical models:  the theory of reasoned action \(TRA\e technology acceptance model \(TAM\e motivational model, the theory of planned behavior \(TPB\ a model combining the technology acceptance model and the theory of planned behavior, the model of PC utilization, the innovation diffusion theory, and the social cognitive theory. The goal of UTAUT is to understand intention/usage as the dependent va A U T  has been utilized in prior e-government research investigating e-government service adoption [8   In addition to technology adoption factors, the literature also identifies perceived risk as an important predictor of intention h e prop os ed m odel  combines adoption factors, perceived risk and optimism bias to explain citizens intention to use efiling in the United States   2.1 The UTAUT Model The UTAUT model integrates the eight theoretical models noted above and is made up of four core determinants of usage intention \(performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social influence, and facilitating conditions T h e u n i f i ed t h eoretical  model was empirically tested in four different organizational settings \(entertainment, telecomm banking, and public administration industries\er a period of six months the f o u r core determ in a n ts  performance expectancy, effort expectancy, and social influence significantly predict intention. The UTAUT model is well suited for the context of this study in that the IRS is the organizational function of the government which collects taxes. Taxes should be paid by all citizens on an annual basis to the IRS. The payment of taxes are mandatory, however, the choice to e-file via an IRS sponsored e-file system is a voluntary usage context. Therefore, it is in this setting that the use of the UTAUT model is best suited for an investigation into the use and adoption of an IRS e-file system Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 The comprehensiveness, validity and reliability of the UTAUT model have encouraged the current authors of this study to adopt and validate it in the context of e-file adoption. The model was amended to suit the context of the study. Performance expectancy was measured by the perceptions of using e-government services in terms of benefits, such as saving time, money and effort, facilitating communication with government, improving the quality of government services and by providing citizens with an equal basis on which to carry out their business with government [8  Five va r i a b le s c o m p r i s e  the performance expectancy construct: perceived usefulness, extrinsic motivation, job-fit, relative advantage, and outcome expectations ecen t  literature has shown that there are similarities between constructs: usefulness and extrinsic motivation [9 usefulness and job-fit [10 use f ul ne s s a n d r e l a t i v e  advantag s ef uln e s s a n d ou tco m e  expectations d j obf it an d ou tco m e  expectations P e rf orm a n ce ex pectan c y h a s been found to be the strongest predictor of intention in previous model tests [7, 10, 13Effort expectancy is the degree of ease associated with the use of the system T h e  UTAUT model identifies three constructs from the eight models which make up the concept of effort expectancy: perceived ease of use, complexity, and ease of us T h e s i m i l a rit y a m o n g t h e s e th ree  variables has also been documented in prior literature 7, 10T h e ef f o rt ex pect an c y co n s tr u c t h a s been found to be significant in both voluntary and mandatory usage contexts, but only in the initial usage of the technology ca m e insi g n i f i ca n t a f ter  periods of extended and sustained usage which is consistent with previous research [7, 10, 14, 16  I t ha s been noted that effort oriented constructs are usually found to be more salient in the early stages of a behavior [7 T h is in itial sta g e is w h e n p r o cess iss u es  are hurdles that need to be overcome by users and later are forgotten, giving way to concerns about specific system features  Social influence is the degree to which an individual perceives that others who are deemed important to them believe that they should use the system l u e n ce i s co m p ris e d of  s u bj ectiv e  norms, social factors, and image. The construct name social norms has been used in prior literature and is similar to subjective norm within the Theory of Reasoned Action a s als o been n o ted th a t the  social influence construct contains the explicit or implicit notion that people s behavior is influenced by the way in which they believe others will view as a result of having used the technology [7  N o ne o f t h e  social influence constructs were found to be significant in voluntary contexts; however, all of them were found to be significant when usage was mandatory T h es e effects in a mandatory context could be attributed to compliance that causes social influence to have a direct effect on intention co n t ras t  s o cial i n f l u e n c e i n  voluntary contexts, as in this study, functions by influencing perceptions about the technology.  Prior egovernment literature has identified social influences as a significant predictor of intention to us  Facilitating conditions was measured by the perception of being able to access required resources as well as to obtain knowledge and the necessary support needed to use an e-file system. It is also influenced by the perception of the technology fitting into the lifestyle of the us Facilitating conditions are comprised of three root constructs perceived behavioral control, facilitating conditions and compatibility. Each of these root constructs is operationalized to include aspects of the technological and/or organizational environment that are meant to remove barriers to us   2.2 Perceived Risk According to the literature, risk perceptions have a significant impact on use intentions e d ris k  is defined as the citizen s belief that he will incur a loss while pursing a given outcome e d ris k i s  composed of behavioral and environmental uncertainty. Behavioral uncertainty exists due to the impersonal nature of the Internet. Since it is such a remote medium, online service providers could behave opportunistically and take advantage of the user Environmental uncertainty arises due to the unpredictable nature of Internet-based technology.  The Internet is beyond the control of the consum In e-commerce perceived risk reduces users  intentions to exchange information and complete transactions T h e literatu re su gg es ts th a t perceiv e d risk has the same effect on e-government adoption [4  In l i g h t o f t h e uncert a i n t i e s t h at su rroun d Internet-based transactions and the potential consequences of not successfully submitting an electronic tax return, we posit that perceived risk will significantly impact one s intention e-file   2.3 Online Trust Definitions of trust are prevalent in the literature.  One frequently utilized definition is that presented by Rotter  o tter s research is referenced in numerous studies of trus  T r u s t is t h e ex pecta n c y t h at  the promise of another can be relied upon. Trust of electronic services has been explored extensively in both e-commerce [19, 24-31 d eg o v e rnm e n t [17 20, 32, 33 s suggested that there are two targets of trust: the entity providing the service and the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


mechanism through which it is provided [3  T r u s t in this study is therefore composed of the traditional view of trust in a specific entity \(trust of the IRS endorsed efile system\well as trust in the reliability of the enabling technology \(trust of the Internet\0   Citizens must trust the government agency providing the electronic service. Acceptance hinges upon the belief that they are capable of providing electronic services effectively. In e-commerce research, this is referred to as reputation. Reputation effects the extent to which buyers believe an organization is honest and concerned about customers 28, 34 35 Reg a rding eg o v e rnm e n t citize n s  will be more likely to use Internet services provided by agencies with a good reputation. Hence, citizen s trust in the e-file provider is imperative to e-file diffusion  2.4 Optimism Bias In addition to trust and risk perceptions, optimism bias may also have an impact on e-file adoption. Optimism bias is defined as a systematic error in perception of an individual s own standing relative to group averages, in which negative events are seen as less likely to occur to the individual than average compared with the group, and positive events as more likely to occur than average compared with the grou  This concept suggests that although people identify situations as risky; they do not think they are as susceptible to the risk as the average person.  Many people believe that their knowledge and abilities minimize their vulnerability to risk. Optimism bias has been explored in several fields. For instance, it has been used to explain why some individuals drive when they are sleepy e s earch s h o w s th a t  m o s t people  agree it is dangerous to drive when tired; however, the same people believe their driving skills make them less likely to have an accident while fatigued than the average driver. Regarding information technology \(IT previous literature found that people were aware of technology related risks.  However, risks of technology were mostly seen as issues of concern for others  Regarding, e-government adoption, prior literature has found that despite perceptions of risk citizens were still willing to adopt e-government services itizens ackn o w l edg e d th e ris k of completing electronic transactions; however, they were willing to use e-government services. Optimism bias may have an impact on this phenomenon. Perhaps citizens who believe they are more competent than the average Internet user are not deterred by the perceived risk of e-government transactions. Optimism bias is tested by asking participants to compare their ability to perform some task to the ability of the average citizen We adapted survey items to assess e-file optimism bias. Participants in this study were asked to rate their ability to perform several tasks \(verify authenticity of tax forms from IRS website, recognize a fake website complete a transaction with IRS using an e-file system etc.\pared to the ave. Internet user s ability  3. Research Model & Hypotheses Based on the aforementioned literature, we posit that citizens will identify e-filing as a risky transaction however, due to online trust factors, optimism bias, and adoption factors, citizens will still be willing to e-fie The following research hypotheses \(see table 1\nd research model are proposed \(see Figure 1  Table 1.  Research hypotheses No Hypothesis  H1 Performance Expectancy will have a significant influence on Intention to Use H2 Effort Expectancy will have a significant influence on Intention to Use H3 Social Influence will have a significant influence on Intention to Use H4 Facilitating Conditions will not have a significant influence on Intention to Use H5 Trust in the e-file system will have a significant influence on Perceived Risk H6 Trust in the Internet will have a significant influence on Perceived Risk H7 Perceived Risk will have a significant negative effect on Intention to Use H8 Optimism Bias will have a significant positive influence on Intention to Use  Figure 1:  Proposed research model   4. Methodology  To obtain participants, an e-mail announcement was sent to MBA students, masters level and upper level accounting students. Each survey participant was provided a link to a Web-based survey, which provided data validation controls ensuring a selection was made for all questions. To encourage participation an mp3 player was randomly given away to a participant. The survey questions were aimed at assessing their perceptions of the dependent and independent variables. Demographic questions were included last on the survey, as fatigue effects would have less influence on them. All surveys were confidential and no identifying personal information was required.   The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


results were analyzed using structural equation modeling techniques utilizing AMOS 7.0 software  4.1  Sample To date the survey has been completed by 260 respondents. The response rate was actually quite good with 65% responding. 53 % of the participants were female. The sample s age ranged from 18 54; 83% of the sample was in the 18-24 age group.  89% were Caucasians. 93% have completed an e-commerce transaction and 71% have completed an e-government transaction. 34% of the respondents used an e-file system last year.  Data collection is ongoing and updated data will be presented at the conference  4.2 Instrument Development & Validity To investigate users intentions to use an IRS endorsed e-file system, a questionnaire based data gathering technique was ut Qu es t i on s  w e re co m p iled  from validated instruments in the IT adoption literature to represent each construct, and wording was modified to fit the e-filing context being studied.  The resulting items for each construct were then included in a random order on the survey instrument. Effort expectancy, performance expectancy, social influence facilitating conditions, perceived risk, trust of the IRS endorsed e-file system, trust of the Internet, and intention to use questions were measured on a 7-point Likert-type scale, ranging form 1 \(strongly disagree 7 \(strongly agree\mism bias questions were also measured using a 7-point Likert-type scale; however there were anchored by 1 \(much less able than the ave ave. ability\, 7 \(much more able than the ave. Internet user\onstructs showed internal consistency levels exceeding 0.70 \(see table 2 measured by Cronbach s   Table 2.  Reliability analysis Construct Items Reliability  Performance Expectancy \(PE 3 .74 Effort Expectancy EE 3 .73 Social Influence \(SI 3 78 Facilitating Conditions \(FC 2 .73 Perceived Risk \(PR 2 70 Trust of e-file system TOE 3 .87 Trust of the Internet TOI 3 .79 Optimism Bias \(OB 3 84 Intention to Use USE 3 .91  Convergent and discriminant validity were assessed with several tests. Convergent validity was assessed with three tests recommended by Anderson and Gerbing t an dardized f actor loadin g s are indicative of the degree of association between scale items and a latent variable. The loadings were highly significant. Composite reliabilities, similar to Cronbach s alpha, range from 0.70 to 0.91, well exceeding the minimum limit of 0.70. Varianceextracted estimates are measures of the variation explained by the latent variable to random measurement d ran g e d f r o m 0.5 to 0.77  all exceeding the recommended lower limit of   All tests supported convergent validity of the scales  Discriminant validity wa s also assessed with tests recommended by Anderson and Gerbing Item-total correlations for these constructs were examined.  The correlation pattern shows that an item posited to form a given sub-construct has a stronger correlation with the intended construct than another construct, providing evidence of discriminant and convergent validity. An additional discriminant validity criterion is that the variance shared by a construct with its indicators should be greater than the variance shared with other constructs in the model. The average variance extracted is used to assess the variance shared between the construct and its measurement items con s tru c t is considered to be distinct from other constructs if the square root of the average variance extracted for it is greater than its correlations with other latent constructs l l  constructs passed this test; however, there appears to be a high correlation between the UTAUT constructs as can be expected\wever, the item construct correlation indicated that there is appropriate discriminant validity. To further validate that these three constructs are distinct, an exploratory factor analysis was conducted with the 14 items from the five scales. In all cases, items loaded much stronger on their intended construct, further indicating discriminant validity  Additionally, internal consistency of subconstructs was assessed using Cronbach s alpha and Fornell and Larcker s measure of composite reliability  Sco r es of 70 o r ab ov e are acce p table v a lu es of internal consistency, which was the case for all constructs T h u s colle ctiv el y  th ere i s s t rong evidence to suggest that the constructs demonstrate good measurement properties. Convergent and discriminant validity tables are available upon request They are omitted for purposes of space   4.3 Data Analysis The research model was tested using structural equation modeling \(SEM\ techniques using AMOS 7.0 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


software.  SEM is a comprehensive approach to testing hypotheses about relations among observed and latent variables T h e s t atis tical appr oach in corporates  path analysis, factor analysis, and linear regression into a theoretical causal model for analysis of latent constructs and measurable variables, allowing simultaneous estimation of both measurement and structural sub-models   5. Results The overall model fit was adequate, as can be seen from Table 3. The test of overall model fit resulted in a chi-square value of 599 with 270 degrees of freedom and a probability value of less than .001. A significant p-value indicates the absolute fit of the model is less than desirable. However, the chi-square test of absolute model fit is sensitive to sample size and non-normality A better measure of fit is chi-square over degrees of freedom. This ratio for our model is 2.22, which is within the suggested 3 to 1 bracket [24, 47  In addition to the aforementioned ratio, we also report several fit indices. Descriptive fit statistics compare a specified model to a baseline model typically the independence model, in an attempt to demonstrate the superiority of the proposed model. We report the Goodness-of-fit index \(GFI\e adjusted AGFI\d the Comparative Fit Index \(CFI\g and Anderson tif ie s t h e  CFI as one of the most stable and robust fit indices We also report RMSEA \(Root Mean Square Error of Approximation\which measures the discrepancy per degree of freedom The GFI should be at or abov  while the AGFI should be at or above 0.80 [47, 49  The CFI statistic should be at or above 0.90  Finally, RMSEA should be below t h a s also been suggested to represent a very good fit if below the more restrictive threshold of 0.08  Table 3. Model fit summary for research model Fit Index Model Recommendation Chi-square 599.11 n/a Degrees of freedom 270 n/a P <0.001 non significant Chi-square / df 2.22 3.00 GFI .85 >.90 AGFI .80 > .80 Comparative fit index CFI 92 >.90 Root mean square error of approx. \(RMSEA 069 <.08  Having established the adequacy of the model's fit, it s appropriate to examine individual path coefficients This analysis is presented in Table 4. Six of the eight hypotheses are supported. Performance Expectancy H1\fluence \(H3\nd facilitating conditions H4\creased use intentions. Trust of the e-filer decreased users perceived risk of using e-file systems H5\her levels of decrease intention to use an efile system \(H7\mism bias increases use intentions \(H8\ not supported effort expectancy did not significantly influence users intentions to use an e-file system. H6 is not supported.  Higher levels of trust of the Internet did not impact the perceived risk of using e-file systems  Table 4. Path coefficients and hypothesis testing  Path Coef. p-value Supported H1 PE USE 1.022 003 YES H2 EE USE .017 487 NO H3 SI USE .141 092 YES H4 FC USE -.997 061 NO H5 TOE PR 581 00 YES H6 TOI PR 103 208 NO H7 PR USE -.185 002 YES H8 OB USE .758 033 YES p < 0.10, **p < 0.05, ***p<.001 Figure 2 shows the path coefficients for each significant relationship. The signs of the coefficients are all in the predicted direction.  The only predicted paths that are not significant are between effort expectancy and intention to use and trust of the Internet and perceived risk  6. Discussion This study s overall purpose was to investigate users  intention to file there taxes online via an IRS endorsed e-file system. The study s research question focused on building an integrated model that identifies the impact of UTAUT and risk perceptions on U.S. taxpayers  intention to use an IRS endorsed e-file system  Figure 2:  Path coefficients for significant relationships   6.1. Determinants of Use To investigate the research question, we proposed a model of e-file adoption to be investigated. The results provide support for the research model. Seven independent variables were investigated. Performance Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


expectancy, social influence, facilitating conditions and perceived risk were shown to significantly influence intention to use, while trust of e-file system was shown to significantly influence perceived risk  Hypothesis 1 is supported. Performance expectancy was shown to be a significant predictor of usage. This finding was expected. Performance expectancy has also been identified as a significant predictor of use in the IT adoption literatu h e ultimate goal of using an e-file system from the user perspective is whether or not they accomplished their task of filing their taxes  Hypothesis 2 was not supported. Effort expectancy was not shown to be a significant predictor of intention to use in this study. This finding is unexpected, having been identified as a predictor of intention to use in previous IT adoption literatu This result may be indicative of the subject pool, in that they were experienced computer users and collectively were very Internet savvy. This is not to say that an easy to use e-file system is not important. To the contrary, this highlights the necessity for an e-file system to be easy to use in order to accommodate individuals that are not considered to be as computer savvy. This will be imperative to achieve the 80% efile adoption goal set forth by Congress.  This is perhaps the most important aspect of an e-file system in order to initially capture the non-traditional technology user. In this study, the sample was comprised primarily of experienced users of technology, which is a likely explanation as to why effort expectancy was found to be the least significant construct. Prior literature suggests the effort expectancy construct to be salient in the early stages of usage only e cou l d al s o arg u e t h at w i t h th e act  of filing taxes the importance is in conducting the transaction, not in the ease of use  Hypothesis 3 is supported. Social influence was shown to be a significant predictor of intention to use in this study.  This finding is not unexpected having been identified as a predictor of intention to use in previous IT adoption literatu h is fin d i ng provides evidence that indeed referent others opinions influence users feelings about filing their taxes via an IRS endorsed e-file system. Whether it is to go shopping, find a website relevant to one s activities or find a good search engine, we often rely on friends and acquaintances to suggest, why should e-filing be any different  Hypothesis 4 is not supported. Facilitating conditions were indeed found to significantly influence users intentions to e-file.  This finding is actually quite surprising because prior literatu a d f o u n d t h at  when both performance expectancy and effort expectancy are present in the research model, then facilitating conditions will not be a significant predictor of intention to use.  This is quite an interesting finding that extends the UTAUT literature into the e-government domain  Hypothesis 5 is supported. Trust of the e-filer behaves as expected, reducing perceived risk. The significance of trust is evident in an e-file context where users perception of the integrity and competence of the 3 rd party e-filer plays a vital role in e-file adoption. This is due to the fact that filing an individual s taxes is a vital part of their civic duty and it is required by law.  E-filing should be a tool that is used to aid an individual in complying with his annual responsibility of filing an income tax return. Citizen trust of an e-filer is essential to decreasing perceived risk and in turn, increasing usage  Hypothesis 6 was not supported. Trust of the Internet did not significantly influence perceived risk of e-filing. As aforementioned, trust is necessary when risk is present. Higher levels of trust in the Internet, the medium supporting an e-file system, eases citizen reservations.  This trust reduces the level of uncertainty associated with adopting a new, online method of tax submission. It also mitigates fears of potential loss associated with submitting personal information over the Internet. A possible explanation for the nonsignificance could be a result of the subject pool. In this study, the sample was comprised of experienced Internet users, which is a likely explanation as to why trust of the Internet was not found to be significant  These findings suggest that Internet trust is necessary, but trust of the e-filer is more important Trust of the e-filer had significant effect on perceived risk. Previous research suggests there are two targets of trus e en tit y prov idi n g th e ser v ice \(T OE d  the mechanism through which it is provided \(TOI Perhaps in e-government adoption, trust of the entity is more salient than trust of the mechanism. Future research should continue to explore these relationships It is also important to mention that the sample university students, may have had an impact on the results. Future studies should explore the impact of Internet trust using a broader sample  Hypothesis 7 was supported. Higher levels of perceived risk decrease intention to use an e-file system.  Tax filing is an important civic obligation.  Efiling errors and missed deadlines could result in serious penalties, including fines and incarceration Citizens who believe electronic filing increases their susceptibility to these risks are less likely to use the Internet to file their taxes  Hypothesis 8 is also supported. Although perceived risk had a negative impact on intention to use an e-file system, optimism bias had a positive impact on usage intent.  High levels of perceived risk Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


reduce one s intention to use an e-file system However, citizens who believe they are more competent interacting with electronic systems are more likely to use an e-file system despite the risks. These results are promising for e-service adoption research Future studies should explore the role of optimism bias in conjunction with other intention predictors such as Internet self-efficacy \(ISE\he results of this study suggest that beyond confidence in one s ability to use the Internet the belief that one s abilities are better than the average Internet user encourages use of e-services despite risk. This use is motivated by the belief since I am more Internet savvy than the average user, I am not as susceptible to Internet risks as the average user   One interesting finding was that in this study 71% of respondents reported having conducted some kind of e-government transaction previously, however only 34% of respondents said they had e-filed their taxes.  Based on the results of this study, the IRS should attempt to influence citizen perceptions of the usefulness \(performance expectancy\f e-filing in order to increase adoption.  Structural equation modeling techniques allow us to analyze the magnitude of the coefficient for each independent variable According to Table 3, performance expectancy has the highest impact on the intention to use. This suggests the IRS should highlight the advantages of filing taxes electronically, such as quicker returns, as compared to traditional methods. An emphasis on the advantages of e-filing should have a notable impact on citizen adoption. The second most prominent factor is perceived risk. This finding suggests the IRS should highlight characteristics of e-file safeguards designed to minimize risk to e-file users  6.2. Implications for Research This study develops and empirically validates a research model that extends UTAUT by integrating perceived risk, online trust, and optimism bias in an emergent e-government service context. Research on the effects of trust and risk on e-government adoption is still in its infancy. This study introduces optimism bias as a salient predictor of e-government adoption This construct helps to explain why citizens are willing to adopt e-filing, despite the inherent risks associated with Internet transactions. The proposed model increases our understanding of e-service utilization by integrating trust, risk and optimism bias into a parsimonious adoption model. This model can serve as spring board for future research.  Future research should look to investigate the significance of respondent characteristics \(e.g. age, gender  The relevance of optimism bias to e-service adoption raises many interesting research questions For instance, to what extent does optimism bias encourage users to engage in risky behavior? What is the relationship between optimism bias and selfefficacy? Is optimism bias more prevalent for certain users \(novice vs. experienced\enders, cultures or age groups? This study presents optimism bias as an important element of e-government diffusion. The findings highlight the need for further exploration of its influence on the adoption decision   6.3. Implications for Practice The implications of this study are three fold. There are several implications for the government agency \(IRS e-file providers, and citizens.  The study highlights the fact that citizen acceptance of e-filing is significantly influenced by their trust of the e-file provider which they are using to complete and submit their taxes online. Trust of the e-file provider has shown to reduce citizens perceived risk and increase their likelihood of use. This highlights, to both the government agency IRS\ well as the actual e-file providers, the fact that a trusting relationship with the citizen throughout the e-filing process is absolutely critical and the relationship that is built must be nurtured. Trust is an essential element of all transactions, regardless of the medium or the asset being transacted. It s essential for vendors to grow trust online then when it involves citizens tax returns. Once trust is lost, achieving e-file adoption is impossible because the e-file provider has lost its credibility. Prior research has shown that consumers will have hesitation with transacting with an Internet vendor because of uncertainty or the perceived risk of having their personal information stolen Trust is vital in allowing citizens to feel comfortable sharing their income tax information. Therefore citizens perceptions of e-file providers having adequate controls in place are essential  Previous e-commerce research has found that four kinds of factors determine whether people perceive a website vendor as having adequate controls social indicators, personal experience, understanding and communality o cial in dicators ref e r to certification by a trusted 3 rd party, such as SET protocol, which was developed to address requirements like site and user authentication, confidentiality, and data integrity. Practitioners should also consider the use of 3 rd party trust seals, such as Trust-e and WebTrust, which address privacy concerns   Regarding personal experience, e-filer providers need to make sure citizens have a positive experience with their software. To improve citizens understanding of the security features in place practitioners should inform citizens of the safety and reliability of their efiling software/websites. Communality is the assumption by users that because of provided security features they are protected from fraud because other Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


members of their community \(other e-filing citizens rely on them for protection as well.  In this regard practitioners should advertise their sites as safe and explain the safety measures utilized.  E-file providers should also emphasize how many patrons have successfully used their product  The research presented in this paper demonstrates the importance of trust for the acceptance of U.S. e-filing. There has been an enormous amount of research done in the e-commerce setting that has focused on system performance and utilization as determinants to adoption.  However, in an e-filing context the concept of trust will play a vital role in adoption. As a result, practitioners should consider trust issues when promoting their software packages  There are numerous providers of e-file software that exist presently in the U.S. As stated above these software vendors, should emphasize the reliability and security of their systems to potential customers. E-filers should focus a significant percent of their marketing efforts on advertising security features. Perhaps, e-filers could even provide free virus protection or firewall software with each purchase  The implications of this study are also very relevant to the citizen e-filers themselves.  This study has shown that in fact the effects of optimism bias do in deed exist presently with current and potential citizen e-filers.  Citizens need to be aware of this bias and take the appropriate measures to ensure that indeed the e-file provider is a trustworthy vendor and that the appropriate controls are in place to ensure the privacy of their sensitive personal income tax records   6.4. Limitations There are some limitations to this study that should be noted.  The most notable is the diversity of the subjects evaluated.  While valid results were produced from testing, there was limited diversity in the sample Future research should attempt to validate the findings of this study by testing a more diverse array of survey participants within the same context to increase the variance on some variable dimensions. Another limitation is that the data for this study was collected through surveys, therefore allowing a potential of selfreport bias from respondents. Although the model explains 73% of the variance in intention to use, it does not include several adoption constructs explored in the literature. Future studies could include trust and selfefficacy for a more comprehensive view of the phenomenon  7. Conclusion Acknowledging the limitations of this study, this research has still made several significant contributions to the field of information systems research. This study is a first step towards understanding the role of UTAUT and optimism bias on e-file system adoption In particular, it shows that the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology in conjunction with risk perceptions explain a significant percent of the variance in intention to use.  It introduces optimism bias as a viable explanation for the adoption of electronic services despite the inherent risks of remote transactions. It also serves as a building block for future studies by providing a parsimonious, yet powerful tool for predicting use intentions  8. References 1. IRS IRS e-Strategy for Growth 2004 2. Economist, T The Good, Bad, and the Inevitable in A Special Report on Government and Technology 2008 3. Fletcher, P.D E-file: Electronic tax administration in the United States 2002 4 Fu, J.R., C.K. Farn, and W.P. Chao Acceptance of electronic tax filing: A study of taxpayer intentions  Information & Management, 2006 43 p. 109-126 5 VanDenburgh, W.M. and P.J. Harmelink The IRS's lack of support for Direct, Free E-Filing Tax Notes 2006 112 p. 171-182 6. Service, I.R IRS e-file for Individuals 2008 7 Venkatesh, V., M.G. Morris, and G.B. Davis User Acceptance of Information Technology: Toward a Unified View MIS Quarterly, 2003 27 3\. 425-478 8 Al Awadhi, S. and A. Morris The Use of the UTAUT Model in the Adoption of E-government Services in Kuwait in Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2008. Kona, Hawaii 9. Davis, F.D Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user acceptance of information technology  MIS Quarterly, 1989 13 3\: p. 319-340 10 Thompson, R., C. Higgins, and J. Howell Personal computing:  toward a conceptual model of utilization  MIS Quarterly, 1991 15 1\: p. 124-143 11 Moore, G. and I. Benbasat Development of an instrument to measure the perceptions of adopting an information technology innovation Information Systems Research, 1991 2 3\: p. 192-222 12 Plouffe, C.R., S.J. Hulland, and M. Vandenbosch Research report: Richness versus parsimony in modeling technology adoption decisions-Understanding merchant adoption of a smart cardbased payment system Information Systems Research 2001 12 2\: p. 208-222 13 Compeau, D.R. and C.A. Higgins Computer Selfefficacy: Development of a Measure and Initial Test  MIS Quarterly, 1995 19 2\: p. 189-211 14 Agarwal, R. and J. Prasad Are individual differences germane to acceptance of new info. technologies  Decision Sciences, 1999 30 2\: p. 361-391 15. Venkatesh, V Determinants of Perceived Ease of Use Integrating Control, Intrinsic Motivation, and Emotion into the Technology Acceptance Model Information Systems Research, 2000 11 4\: p. 342-365 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


16 Thompson, R., C. Higgins, and J. Howell Influence of experience on personal computer utilization: Testing a conceptual model Journal of Management Information Systems, 1994 11 1\: p. 167-187 17 Warkentin, M., et al Encouraging citizen adoption of e-government by building trust Electronic Markets The International Journal of Electronic Commerce Business Media, 2002 12 3\: p. 157-162 18 Warkentin, M. and D. Gefen Encouraging citizen adoption of e-government by building trust Electronic Markets, 2002 12 3\: p. 157-162 19. Pavlou, P Consumer Acceptance of Electronic Commerce: Integrating Trust and Risk with the Technology Acceptance Model International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 2003 7 p. 69-103 20 Carter, L. and F. Belanger The Utilization of Egovernment Services: Citizen Trust, Innovation and Acceptance Factors Information Systems Journal 2005 15 1\5 21. Rotter, J New Scale for Measurement of Interpersonal Trust Journal of Personality, 1967 35 p. 651-665 22 Mayer, R.C., J.H. Davis, and F.D. Schoorman An integrative model of organizational trust Academy of Management Review, 1995 20 3\709-734 23. Zucker, L.G Production of trust: Institutional sources of economic structure Research in Organizational Behavior, 1986 8 p. 53-111 24. Gefen, D E-commerce: The Role of Familiarity and Trust Omega: The International Journal of Management Science, 2000 28 6\725-737 25. Gefen, D Reflections on the Dimensions of Trust and Trustworthiness among Online Consumers The DATA BASE for Advances in IS, 2002 33 3\: p. 38-53 26 Gefen, D., E. Karahanna, and D.W. Straub Trust and TAM in Online Shopping: An Integrated Model MIS Quarterly, 2003 27 1\ p. 51-90 27 Gefen, D. and D.W. Straub Consumer Trust in B2C eCommerce and the Importance of Social Presence Experiments in e-Products and e-Services Omega: The International Journal of Management Science, 2004 32 6\. 407-424 28 Jarvenpaa, S.L., N. Tractinsky, and M. Vitale Consumer Trust In An Internet Store Information Technology and Management, 2000 1 1\: p. 45-71 29 McKnight, D.H., V. Choudhury, and C. Kacmar Developing and Validating Trust Measures for ECommerce: An Integrative Approach Information Systems Research, 2002 13 3\: p. 334-359 30 Tan, Y.H. and W. Theon Toward a generic model of trust for electronic commerce International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 2001 5 2\: p. 61-74 31 Van Slyke, C., F. Belanger, and C.L. Comunale Factors Influencing the Adoption of Web-Based Shopping: The Impact of Trust Database for Advances in Information Systems, 2004 35 2\. 32-49 32 Gefen, D., et al Cultural diversity and trust in IT adoption: a comparison of potential e-Voters in the USA and South Africa Journal of Global Information Management, 2002 13 1\: p. 54-78 33 Welch, E.W., C.C. Hinnant, and M.J. Moon Linking Citizen Satisfaction with E-Government and Trust in Government Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory, 2005 15 3\371-391 34 Doney, P.M. and J.P. Cannon An Examination of the Nature of Trust in Buyer-Seller Relationships Journal of Marketing, 1997 61 April\51 35 Chiles, T.H. and J.F. McMackin Integrating variable risk preferences, trust, and transaction cost economics  Academy of Management Review, 1996 21 p. 73-99 36 Ruyter, K.D., M. Wetzels, and M. Kleijnen Customer adoption of eservice: An experimental study  International Journal of Service Industry Management 2001 12 2\: p. 184-207 37 Smith, J.B. and D.W. Barclay The effects of organizational differences and trust on the effectiveness of selling partner relationships Journal of Marketing 1997 61 1\2 38. Weinstein, N.D Optimistic Bias about personal risks  Science, 1980 246 p. 1232-1233 39. Dejoy, D The Optimism Bias and Traffic Accident Risk Perception Accident Analysis and Prevention 1989 21 4\: p. 333-340 40 Sjoberg, L. and J. Fromm Information Technology Risks as Seen by the Public Risk Analysis, 2001 21 3\. 427-441 41. Nunnally, J.C Psychometric Theory 1978, New York McGraw-Hill 42 Anderson, J.C. and D.W. Gerbing Structural Equation Modeling in Practice:  A Review and Recommended Two-Step Approach Psychological Bulletin 1988 103 3\: p. 411-423 43 Netemeyer, R.G., M.W. Johnston, and S. Burton Analysis of Role Conflict and Role Ambiguity in a Structural Equations Framework Journal of Applied Psychology, 1990 75 2\: p. 148-157 44 Fornell, C. and D.F. Larcker Evaluating structural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement error Journal of Marketing Research 1981 18 1\50 45 Barclay, D.W. and J.B. Smith The effects of organizational differences and trust on the effectiveness of selling partner relationships Journal of Marketing 1997 61 1\1 46. Hoyle, R.H The Structural Equation Modeling Approach: Basic Concepts and Fundamental Issues  1995, Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage 47 Chin, W.W. and P.A. Todd On the use, usefulness, and ease of use of structural equation modeling in MIS research: A note of caution MIS Quarterly, 1995 19 2\. 237-246 48 Steiger, J.H. and J.C. Lind Statistically-based tests for the number of common factors in Annual Spring Meeting of the Psychometric Society 1980. Iowa City 49 Segars, A.H. and V. Grover Re-examining perceived ease of use and usefulness: A confirmatory factor analysis MIS Quarterly, 1993 17 4\. 517-525 50 Browne, M.W. and R. Cudeck Alternative Ways of Assessing Model Fit 1993 51 Suh, B. and I. Han The Impact of Customer Trust and Perception of Security Control on the Acceptance of Electronic Commerce International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 2003 7 3\: p. 135-161  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 Interferometry: A Survey of Co ld Trap Locations\224, Science Vol 284, pg 1658-1660, 4 June 1999  3.  NASA, \223The Vision for Sp ace Exploration\224,  Feb. 2004 http://www.nasa.gov pdf/55584main_vision_space_explorat ion-hi-res.pdf  4.  M. Kruijff, \223The Peaks of Eternal Light on the Lunar South Pole: How they were found and what they look like\224 4th International Conference on Exploration and Utilization of the Moon \(ICEUM4\ESA/ESTEC, SP-462, September 2000  5.  J. Fincannon, \223Lunar South Pole Illumination: Review Reassessment, and Power Sy stem Implications\224, 5 th  International Energy Conversion Engineering Conference and Exhibit \(IECEC\, 25-27 June 2007, AIAA 2007-4700  6.  J. Fincannon, \223Charact erization of Lunar Polar Illumination From a Power System Perspective\224, 56 th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit, 7-10 January 2008, AIAA 2008-0447  7.  M. Zuber, I. Garrick-Be thell, \223What Do We Need to Know to Land on the Moon Again?\224, Science, Vol 310, pg 983-985, 11 November 2005  8.  Gazetteer of Planetary Nomenclature, International Astronomical Union, 03/31/2008  9.  Ewan A. Whitaker, \223The Lunar South Polar Regions\224 Journal of the British Astronomical Association, Vol. 64 No. 6, pp. 234-242  10. James D. Burke, \223Merits of A Lunar Polar Base Location\224, Lunar Bases and Space Activities of the 21st Century. Houston, TX, Lunar and Planetary Institute, edited by W. W. Mendell, 1985, p.77  B IOGRAPHY   Scott H. Bryant is a member of the senior staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He has a bachelor\222s in Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering from MIT and a master\222s in Astronautics from USC.  He has worked for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 10 years, working on several of JPL\222s Deep Space Network \(DSN\s.  His projects include the receivers, exciters, and spacecraft tracking subsystems.  He has been principally involved with software design and development for spacecraft tracking, including holding the position of cognizant design engineer for the current DSN Ranging system. Scott is currently the implementation and design lead for the spacecraft tracking and ranging portion of JPL\222s Network Simplification Project.  He has also work ed with the study groups examining communications and navigation issues for the Constellation system lunar studies.  The work presented here was performed for the SCiP Lunar Architecture study group  


  12  Figure 1:  Lunar South Pole Elevation Map from GSSR 2006 Digital Elevation Model  Figure 2:  Lunar North Pole Elevation Ma p from GSSR 1997 Digital Elevation Model 


  13  Figure 3:  Shackleton Crater T opographic Map, with Base Sites  Figure 4: Solar Lines-of-Si ght at Lunar South Pole 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


