Performance Oriented Mini ng of Utility Frequent Itemsets   Sakthi Nathiarasan A PG Scholar, Department of CSE Adhiyamaan College of Engineering Hosur, India Sakthinathiarasan6@gmail.com Manikandan M Assistant Professor, Department of CSE Adhiyamaan College of Engineering Hosur, India Manikandanm10@gmail.com   Abstract 227The Aim of Association Rule Mining\(ARM\ is to find Frequent itemsets. Apriori Algorithm is one of the most efficient Frequent itemset mining Algorithm. However Frequent itemset mining does not includes interestingness or utility. Utility mining is a new area in data mining which considers all external utility factors. A specialized form of Association Rule Mining is utility-frequent itemset mining, here both utility factors and itemset frequencies are considered. Fast utility frequent itemset mining \(FUFM\ne of the efficient algorithm to find utilityfrequent itemsets. The performance of an Algorithm depends on several factors like space\(memory\ computing time, cyclomatic complexity, external data dependency and so on. The proposed system aims in reducing the computing time of existing FUFM by implementing a Parallel computing strategy, the proposed Algorithm is Parallel implementation of Fast Utility Frequent itemset Mining algorithm\(P-FUFM\. Utility-frequent itemset mining algorithm consists of two phases, candidates generation and utilities generation. Utility generation is just a product function whereas candidate generation is a iterative selection process, hence the proposed algorithm is to implement parallel generation of candidate keys and standalone strategy for utilities generation. The proposed implementation and results shows that P-FUFM computes utility-frequent itemsets in very less computing time and is more suitable for Business Development Keywords\227FUFM; P-FUFM Utility; ARM; Performance I   I NTRODUCTION  Association rule mining \(ARM\ is one of the popular data mining technique, that finds the statistical relation or correlation between the data items present in the database based on some statistical measures. The major aim of ARM is to find the set of all subsets of items or attributes that frequently occur in many transactions and to extract rules on how a subset of items influences the presence of another subset. The task of mining association rules over market basket data was first introduced by Agrawal et al [1  A sso c iat io n  rules are usually required to satisfy a user-specified minimum support and a user-specified minimum confidence at the same time. Association rule generation is usually split up into two separate steps [2 Firs t, m in im u m s u p p o r t is a p p lie d t o f in d al l  frequent itemsets in a database. Second, these frequent itemsets and the minimum confidence constraint are used to form rules Finding all frequent itemsets in a database is difficult since it involves searching all possible itemsets. The set of possible itemsets is the power set over I and has size 2n 1 \(excluding the empty set which is not a valid itemset\. Although the size of the power set grows exponentially in the number of items n in I, efficient search is possible using the downward-closure property of support \(also called anti-monotonicity\which guarantees that for a frequent itemset, all its subsets are also frequent and thus for an infrequent itemset, all its supersets must also be infrequent.. Once frequent itemsets are obtained the association rules can be generated with confidence larger than or equal to a user specified minimum confidence. Apriori is a seminal algorithm for finding frequent itemsets using candidate generation. It is characterized as a level-wise complete search algorithm using anti-monotonicity of itemsets i.e., \223if an itemset is not frequent, any of its superset is never frequent\224. It uses a "bottom up" approach [1 T h e  fre q u e n t  itemset mining plays an essential role in mining itemsets that occur frequently. The frequent itemsets are the items that satisfy specified minimum support. One of the drawbacks of frequent itemset mining is that it generates the patterns which the users are not interested in i.e., it doesnot includes interestingness or utility. The utility based data mining, which is an extension of frequent itemset mining, overcomes this limitation. The most infuriating task of data mining is mining itemsets with high utility. In utility based itemset mining, the item sets with utility above user specified minimum utility threshold are extracted. The utility here refers to the enumerative form of user\222s preference. An item set x is said to be a high utility item set if and only if u\(x minUtil, where minUtil is a user defined minimum utility threshold [5 It is also called cost sensitive learning or Active learning, in contrast to passive learning that normal Association Rule Mining \(ARM\ will do. Example for interestingness are symptoms, treatment priority for medical data base analysis and profit, cost for retail shop data base analysis. Several researches about utility mining were exist. The proposed system incorporates parallel computing concepts for finding utility frequent itemsets in a time-efficient manner, and there by making it more suitable for business development II  L ITERATURE REVIEW AND EXISTING SYSTEM  A  Umining The first published utility mining algorithm is Umining[8  which is given below. Umining generates candidates and 


prunes the candidates which does not satisfies minimum utility threshold, which is given by business end user. Umining uses Apriori-based technique for generation and pruning of candidates. Umining finds only High utility itemsets and not Highly frequent itemsets. Umining creates a revolution and path towards interestingness based knowledge mining techniques B  Utility-Frequent Itemset Mining Association rule mining\(ARM\nsiders only statistical relationship between various itemsets. whereas Utility mining considers external utility factors irrespective of itemset frequencies. For business improvement it is necessary to consider both subjectively defined utilities and statistical based measures. The solution for this problem is utility-frequent itemset mining which makes ARM as updated version for business improvement. An itemset \223x\224 is said to be utilityfrequent if for a given utility threshold \223$\224 and support threshold \223s\224 such that extended support \( x, $ \reater than or equal to s [6 Uti lity f r eq u e n t it em set m i n i n g in v o lv es t w o  phases : 1.finding frequent itemsets. 2.selecting utility-frequent itemsets from frequent itemsets. Finding frequent itemsets is a matter of ARM. Apriori or FP-growth Algorithm is suitable for this. If Apriori is used , it involves generation of candidates and pruning of candidates based upon minimum support. Selecting utility-frequent itemsets from frequent itemsets can be done by utility-frequent itemset mining algorithms like Two Phase Utility-Frequent itemset mining \(2P-UF\, Fast Utility Frequent itemset Mining \(FUFM\, improved Fast Utility Mining algorithm \(iFUM\[4 an d s o o n A ll u t i lity f r eq u e n t it em set  mining algorithms combines ARM and a utility mining algorithm. 2P-UF is based on a quasi support, a special measure that solves the problem of nonexistence of antimonotone property of joined support-utility measure. 2P-UF is proven to find all utility-frequent itemsets but it has some properties that render it impossible to use in practice on larger databases. .later few other algorithms including FUFM, iFUM emerged to overcome drawbacks that existed in 2P-UF C  Two Phase Utility-Frequent Itemset Mining Algorithm  Two Phase Utility-Frequent itemset mining algorithm \(2PUF r o v en to f i n d all u tilit y f r eq u e n t ite m s et s in t w o  phases, during first phase it generates candidates and in subsequent phase it prunes the utility-infrequent itemsets However, due to the monotone property of quasi support measure it has a few disadvantages which render it unusable for mining of large datasets. The following disadvantages of 2P-UF Algorithm are Reversed way of candidate generation Space complexity and higher computing time D  Fast Utility Mining Shankar et.al pro pos ed an i m prov e m ent ov er t w o ph a s e utility frequent itemset mining algorithm. FUM\(fast utility mining\finds high utility itemsets using combination generation function and utility calculation function. It is simpler and executes faster than Umining algorithm, when large number of itemsets are identified as high utility itemsets and as the number of distinct items increases in the input database. The CombinationGenerator\(\ a method which is used to generate all possible  combinations of the unique data items given as input to the database. It takes the item name and the level as the input which is generally denoted by the variable loop. The factorial computation method is defined in this, to generate the factorial of a given number. The combination generation is based on the concept proposed by Kenneth H. Rosen, Discrete Mathematics and its applications  o m p ared t o U m i n i n g an d 2PU F  t h e propos ed F U M exhibits low computing time, making it more suitable for business development. The drawbacks of this algorithm is candidate generation overhead. Though combination generation function is employed, the combination generation function itself increases the computing time of the algorithm E  Improved Fast Utility Mining An improvement over FUM scheme leads to iFUM [4 scheme. iFUM is an enhancement over FUM in such a way that, mathematical optimizations are made. The heart of FUM algorithm is CombinationGenerator\(T\hich takes significant time to compute. In FUM combination generation is performed for itemsets and its subset without checking one important condition. In iFUM an additional optimization using subset property is done. The proposed is given below as follows, A set X is a subset of a set Y if every element of X is also an element of Y. Such a relation between sets is denoted by X Y The CombinationGenerator output for itemset DE are {D, E, DE}and itemset DEF are {D, E, F, DE, EF, DF DEF}. If we have already computed the utility value for any of the subsets of DEF and if any of the subset repeats itself as a later transaction, then it is not necessary to generate the subsets again. Previous works on utility mining such as  FUM fails to check this condition so it generates the combinations for the already generated subset of the itemsets too, if it repeats in a later transaction of the input database. The proposed algorithm avoids these extra computations and enhances FUM efficiency F  Fast Utility Frequent Itemset mining  FUFM s bas e d on t h e f act t h at  u t i l i t y f requ e n t  itemsets are a special form of frequent itemsets. Moreover, the support measure is always greater or equal to the extended support measure. Proof is trivial because when computing extended support we count only those transaction containing given itemset S that gives minimum utility on S, but when computing \223ordinary\224 support we count all transactions containing S. The practical consequence of this statement is that frequent itemset mining algorithms can be used to mine utility-frequent itemsets. For this reason, FUFM is very simple and fast because the main part is the \223external\224 frequent itemset mining algorithm. FUFM is one of the efficient algorithm compared to existing Umining, 2P-UF and other popular algorithms on the literature, still generation of candidates overhead remains exist in FUFM Algorithm. The aim of the proposed system is to reduce the time taken for generation of candidates. which in turn degrades the performance of the Algorithm Algorithm FUFM Input 


database DB constraints minUtil and minSup Output all utility-frequent itemsets 1. L=1 2. Find the set of candidates with support>= minSup 3. Compute extended support for all candidates and output utility-frequent itemsets 4. L += 1 5. Use the frequent itemset mining algorithm to obtain new set of candidates of Length L from the old set of frequent candidates 6. Stop if the new set is empty otherwise go to step 3 FUFM finds all utility frequent itemsets for given transactions in an efficient manner. FUFM employs Apriori for candidate generation phase which involves iterative scanning and selection of transactional database. The performance of any knowledge mining algorithm is directly proportional to the computing time of the algorithm which in turn indirectly determines the decision making time in the competitive business environment. FUFM suffers a serious drawback that computing time of FUFM linearly increases with increase in any of the knowledge mining parameters like transactions number of itemsets, external utilities, support values and so on. Thus computing time degrades the performance of the existing FUFM algorithm, which creates a path to develop a performance oriented utility-frequent itemset mining algorithm. Some of the drawbacks of FUFM are memory dependency and computation overhead when the size of database increases III  P ROPOSED SYSTEM  A parallel implementation of Fast Utility Frequent itemset Mining \(FUFM\is employed which performs parallel computation of candidate keys, which in turn reduces computation overhead and increases overall performance of existing FUFM. Utility generation is just a product function whereas candidate generation is an iterative scanning and selection task. P-FUFM employs parallel generation of candidate keys and standalone for utilities generation by implementing a parallel computing strategy. The proposed work is to reduce the computing time of existing FUFM by implementing a parallel computing strategy and The proposed Algorithm is Parallel implementation of Fast Utility Frequent itemset Mining algorithm\(P-FUFM\. Utility-frequent itemset mining algorithm consists of two phases, candidates generation and utilities generation. Utility generation is just a product function whereas candidate generation is a iterative selection process, so The proposed algorithm is to implement parallel generation of candidate keys and standalone for utilities generation. The proposed system suggests the use of a single Master node and N-slave nodes. Slave nodes computes candidate keys in a parallel manner whereas master node computes utilities for all itemsets and also it will sum up the candidates calculated by all the slaves and finally master generates utility-frequent itemsets. P-FUFM shows a nonlinear increase of computing time with respect to various knowledge mining parameters \(transactions, external utilities number of itemsets and so on Algorithm description Algorithm P-FUFM Input transaction file, profit file number of slaves constraints minUtil and minSup Output all utility-frequent itemsets 1. A master node and n-slave nodes 2. At master node 2.1: Scan the entire transaction file 2.2: Divide the entire transactions into n-partitions Where, n is the number of slaves 2.3: Send the n-partitions to n-slaves 2.4: Use Umining algorithm to calculate utilities for entire transactions 3. At slave nodes 3.1: Use Apriori algorithm to calculate candidate keys for their respective local transactions 3.2: Send the calculated candidates to the master node 4. At master node 4.1: Sum up the candidates of n-slaves 4.2: Prune infrequent itemsets based on minSup 4.3: Obtain utility-frequent itemsets from frequent itemsets based on minUtil IV  IMPLEMENATION  AND  RESULTS We implemented the proposed algorithm using java. And the proposed algorithm works in three phases which are listed below PHASE 1: CANDIDATES GENERATION This phase is a functionality of slaves only. Initially master node splits the entire transactions into n-partitions, where n is the number of slave nodes. This phase is a pure Apriori algorithm, i.e., first phase of apriori algorithm\(candidate generation phase\. The slave nodes calculate all possible candidates of their local transactions parallely and finally send it to master nodes  Fig 1. Candidates Generation 


PHASE 2: UTILITIES GENERATION This phase is a functionality of master node only. Utilities generation is the second phase in utility-mining. The master node scans the external utilites from external utility table/file The table consists of itemsets and their respective utilities profits in case of retail shop data\222s\. This phase calculates all possible combinations using a combination generation function and then it computes the utilty values for all possible itemset combinations. utility is a product function which involves product operation \(*\er \(c,p\ where c=itemset combination and p=profit of itemsets. During the parallel generation of candidate keys by the slave nodes, master node computes utilities which in turn reduces the computing time overhead    Fig 2. Utilities Generation  PHASE 3:UTILITY FREQUENT ITEMSET GENERATION This is the final phase and is the functionality of master node The master node sums up the candidates of all the slave nodes and finally it will have candidates with their support values and utility values. now it is the duty of the master node to prune infrequent itemsets \(itemsets which doesnot support minSup\itially, which creates a set of frequent itemsets.and at the next round it will prune the itemsets which doesnot satisfy minUtil   Fig 3. Utility Frequent Itemset Generation  The below graph shows the experimental results with varying transactions and distinct itemsets. The experiment is conducted with two slave nodes and the execution time is calculated in terms of seconds. The chart shows the efficiency of the proposed algorithm, when the number of transactions gets increases, the proposed algorithm produces a non-linear curve compared to existing algorithm    Fig 4. Comparison graph: FUFM/P-FUFM V  C ONCLUSION AND  FUTURE  ENHANCEMENTS Utility based Association mining considers external utility factors which suits for large business Enterprises. All the existing algorithms like FUFM, 2P-UF are efficient in finding utility-frequent itemsets, however computing time of all the existing algorithms gets degraded when number of transactions or itemsets increases, this in turn degrades the performance of all existing algorithms. computing time is an important factor which indirectly affects the decision making time needed for business improvement. The proposed system is to implement parallel version of FUFM which is performance oriented and is effective and efficient in finding utility-frequent itemsets. The proposed algorithm\(P-FUFM\ is least time dependent and it shows a non-linear curve with respect to computing time and any parameters like transactions, itemsets and so on. For databases with size greater than one lakh records, it is suggested to use five to six slaves which reduces the candidate generation time  The proposed system computes high utility itemsets in very less computing time and making it more suitable for business development. The ultimate aim of any data mining algorithm is quick decision making or quick solution to business improvement problems. From the previous statement we understand that computing time is a important factor in data mining algorithms. Future Enhancements of the system can be done in the following ways 1.Implementing parallel computing for utilities generation,  in addition to parallel candidates generation 


2. Implementing distributed computing in FUFM or P-FUFM 3. Adopting space complexity reduction technique in P-FUFM R EFERENCES  1  R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant, \223Fast algorithms for mining association rules\224, Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Databases, Santiago, Chile,  pp. 487-499, 1994 2  R.J. Hilderman, C.L. Carter, H.J.Hamilton, and N.Cercone,\223Mining market basket data using share measures and Characterized itemsets\224 Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp 159-170, 1998 3  Jieh-shanyeh., Yu-Chiang Li .and Chin - Chen Chang, \223Two-Phase Algorithms for a Novel Utility-Frequent mining  Model\224, PAKDD Workshop, 2007, pp. 433-444 4  S. Shankar, K. Premalatha, and S. Kannimuthu, \223iFUM\226 Improved Fast Utility Mining\224, International Journal of Computer Applications Vol.27 No.11,pp.32-36,2007 5  S. Shankar, T. Purusothaman, S. Jayanthi, and Nishanth Babu, \223A Fast Algorithm for Mining high Utility Itemsets\224, Proceedings of the IEEE International Advance Computing Conference \(IACC 09\, Patiala, India 2009 6  Vid Podpecan., Nada Lavrac, and Igor Kononenko, \223Fast  Algorithm for Mining Utility Frequent Itemsets\224, The Eleventh European Conference on Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases, 2000 7  Yanbin Ye,and Chia-Chu Chiang, \223A Parallel Apriori  Algorithm for Frequent Itemsets Mining\224, Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Software Engineering Research, Management and Applications \(SERA\22206\, 2006 8  H. Yao, and H.J. Hamilton, \223Mining itemset utilities from  transaction database\224, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Elsevier journal Vol.59 pp.603-626, 2006 9  H. Yao, H.J. Hamilton, and C.J. Butz, \223A foundational approach to mining itemset utilities from databases\224, Proceedings  of the Third SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, Orlando, Florida, pp 482-486, 2004   Alva Erwin, Raj P. Gopalan, and N.R. Achuthan,\223A Bottom- Up Projection Based Algorithm for Mining High Utility Itemsets\224, 2 nd  Workshop on Integrating AI and Data Mining \(AIDM 2007\ pp. 3-11 2007   Hua-Fu Li, \223MHUI-max: An efficient algorithm for discovering highutility itemsets from data streams\224, Journal of Information Science, Vol 37, No. 5, pp. 532-545, 2011   Ying Liu, Wei-keng Liao, and Alok Choudhary, \223A Fast High Utility Itemsets Mining Algorithm\224, UBDM\2222005, pp. 90-99, 2005   Ying Liu, Wei-keng Liao, and AlokChoudhary,  \223A two-phase algorithm for fast discovery of high utility itemsets\224. In 9th Pacific-Asia Conf. on Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(PAKDD 2005 Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 3518, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, pp 689\226695, 2005   S. Shankar, T. Purusothaman, and S. Jayanthi, \223Novel Algorithm for Mining High Utility Itemsets\224, In Proceedings of the 2008. International Conference on Computing, Communication and Networking, ICCCN 08, pp. 1-6, 2008   Vincent S. Tseng, Chun-Jung Chu, and Tyne Liang, \223Efficient Mining of Temporal High Utility Itemsets from Data streams\224, In Proceeding of the Second International Workshop on Utility-Based Data Mining, pp 18-27, 2006   Junfu Yin, Zhigang Zheng, and Longbing Cao, \223USpan: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining High Utility Sequential Patterns\224, ACM Conference on KDD\22212, Beijing, China, pp. 660-668, 2012   N.L. Prasanna,  and Nazeer Shaik, \223An Efficient Algorithm \(FUFM\ For Mining Frequent Itemsets\224, International Journal of  Application or Innovation in Engineering & Management \(IJAIEM\, Volume 2, 2013  


Yiyong Xiao, Yun Tian, Qiuhong Zhao, Optimizing frequent time-window selection for association rules mining in a temporal database using a variable neighborhood search [J   C o m put ers   Operations Research, 2013  Liu H, Lin F, He J, Cai Y J, New approach for the sequential pattern mining of high-dimensional sequence databases [J   Dec i s i on Support Systems, 50\(1\270-280, 2010  Xiao Yiyong, Zhang Renqian, Kaku I, A new framework of mining association rules with time-window on real-time transaction database. International Journal of Innovative Computing Information and Control, 7\(6\:3239\2053253, 2011     Railean I, Lenca P, Moga S, Borda M, Closeness Preference-A new interestingness measure for sequential rules mining [J  Knowledge-Based Systems, 44:48-56, 2013           2014 26th Chinese Control and Decision Conference CCDC Shyur H J, Jou C, Chang K, A Data Mining Approach to Discovering Reliable Sequential Patterns[J J o ur n a l o f S y s te m s and S o f tw a r e  86\(8\: 2196-2203, 2013  5319 Peng W C, Liao Z X, Mining sequential patterns across multiple sequence databases [J a ta  K now l e dg e E n g ine e r ing 6 8  10   1014-1033, 2009  


VI Tanbeer, S. K., Ahmed, C. F., Jeong, B.-S., & Lee, Y.-K, \215Sliding window-based frequent pattern mining over data streams,\216 Information Sciences, 179\(22\, pp. 3843\2053865, 2009 9 Chang, J., & Lee, W. S, \215Finding recently frequent itemsets adaptively over online transactional data streams,\216 Information Systems, 31\(8\, pp. 849\205869, 2006 4 Agrawal, R., & Srikant, R, \215Fast algorithms for mining association rules,\216 In Proc. VLDB int. conf. very large databases \(pp. 487\205 499\, 1994 3 Tsai, P. S. M, \215Mining frequent itemsets in data streams using the weighted sliding window model,\216 Expert Systems with Applications, 36\(9\, pp. 11617\20511625, 2009  minimum change threshold Y. Chi, H. Wang, P. S. Yu and R. R. Muntz. Catch the moment maintaining closed frequent itemsets over a data stream sliding window. In KAIS, 10\(3\: pp. 265-294, 2006 6 V. kumar, S. satapathy, \215A review on algorithms for mining frequent itemsets over data stream,\216 in ijarcsse V3 I4, 2013 8 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK  Considering the continuousness of a data stream, the traditional methods or techniques for finding frequent itemsets in conventional data mining methodology may not be valid in a data stream. This is because we cannot consider whole data and must identify when a data becomes obsolete or invalid As the old information of a data stream may be no longer useful or possibly invalid at present.  In order to support various requirements of mining data stream, the mining window or the interesting recent range of a data stream needs not to be defined static but must be flexible. Based on this range, a data mining method can be able to identify when a transactions becomes stale or needs to be disregarded  In this paper, we have investigated the problem of mining frequent itemset over data stream using flexible size sliding window model and proposed a new algorithm for this problem. The size of sliding window is adaptively adjusted based on the amount of observed concept change in the underlying properties of incoming data stream. The size of window enlarges or increase when there is no significant amount of change observed. While the window size reduced or decrease when there is considerable amount of concept change or significant change in set of frequent itemsets occurs Based on the value of given by user, the size of window is being controlled. After every pane insertion the set of frequent itemsets are updated and value of concept change is calculated. If the value exceeds the given minimum change threshold the window gets smaller by deleting all the obsolete information before a point defined called checkmark  Experimental results shows that our algorithm tracks the concept change efficiently while mining data stream and is more adaptive to recent frequent itemsets than fixed size sliding window models or time fading window models. For the future work, we are trying to enhance the performance by using fuzzy sets for minimum change threshold value so that the values like low, medium, high and very high instead of certain value between ranges of 0 to 1 R EFERENCES  1                    H. Li, S. Lee, and M. Shan, \215An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Itemsets over the Entire History of Data Streams\216, In Proc. of First International Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Data Streams, 2004  F. Nori, M. Deypir, M. Sadreddini, \215A sliding window based algorithm for frequent closed itemset mining over data streams\216 journal of system and software, 2012  Zaki, M. \(2000\. Scalable algorithms for association mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 12\(3\, 372\205 390  Woo H. J., & Lee, W. S. \(2009\. estMax: Tracing maximal frequent item sets instantly over online transactional data streams IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 21\(10 1418\2051431  Mozafari B, Thakkar H, Zaniolo C, \215Verifying and mining patterns from large windows over data streams,\216 In Proc. Int. conf. ICDE pp. 179-188, 2008  Koh, J.- L., & Lin, C.- Y, \215Concept shift detection for frequent itemsets from sliding window over data streams\216, lecture notes in computer science: Database systems for advanced applications \(pp 334\205348\ DASFAA Int. Workshops, Springer-Verlag.2009  Han, J., Cheng, H., Xin, D., & Yan, X. Frequent pattern mining Current status and future directions. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 15\(1\, pp.  55\20586, 2007 5 C. Giannella, J. Han, J. Pei, X. Yan, and P. S. Yu. Mining frequent patterns in data streams at multiple time granularities. In Kargupta et al.: Data Mining: Next Generation Challenges and Future Directions, MIT/AAAI Press, 2004 7 2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 510 J. H. Chang and W. S. Lee. estWin: Adaptively Monitoring the Recent Change of Frequent Itemsets over Online Data Streams. In Proc. of CIKM, 2003  J. Yu, Z. Chong, H. Lu, and A. Zhou. False Positive or False Negative: Mining Frequent Itemsets from High Speed Transactional Data Streams. In Proc. of VLDB, 2004      Aggarwal, C, \215A framework for diagnosing changes in evolving data streams,\216 In Proc. ACM SIGMOD int. conf. on management of data \(pp. 575\205586\ 2003 2 Manku, G. S., & Motwani, R. Approximate frequency counts over data streams. In Proc. VLDB int. conf. very large databases \(pp 346\205357\ 2002  


002 
                          
R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases. In Proc. VLDB, pages 487Ö499, 1994 2 R. J. Bayardo, Jr. Efficiently mining long patterns from databases SIGMOD Rec., pages 85Ö93, 1998 3 M. Zaki, S. Parthasarathy, M. Ogihara, and W. Li. Parallel algorithms for discovery of association rules. Data Min. and Knowl. Disc., pages 343Ö373, 1997 4 J. Dean and S. Ghemawat. MapReduce: Simplified data processing on large clusters. In Proc. OSDI. USENIX Association, 2004 5 Apache hadoop. http://hadoop.apache.org/, 2013 6 Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber. Data Mining, Concepts and Techniques. Morgan Kaufmann, 2001 7 M. Zaharia, M. Chowdhury, T. Das, A. Dave, J. Ma, M. McCauley M. Franklin, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica. Resilient distributed datasets A fault-tolerant abstraction for in-memory cluster computing Technical Report UCB/EECS-2011-82, EECS Department University of California, Berkeley, Jul 2011 8 M. Zaharia, M. Chowdhury, M. J. Franklin, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica Spark: Cluster Computing with Working Sets. In HotCloud, 2010 9 J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin: Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In: Proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 29\(2\:1-12, 2000 10 M. J. Zaki. Parallel and distributed association mining: A survey IEEE Concurrency, pages 14Ö25, 1999 11 J. Li, Y. Liu, W.-k. Liao, and A. Choudhary. Parallel data mining algorithms for association rules and clustering. In Intl. Conf. on Management of Data, 2008 12 E. Ozkural, B. Ucar, and C. Aykanat. Parallel frequent item set mining with selective item replication. IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib Syst., pages 1632Ö1640, 2011 13 B.-H. Park and H. Kargupta. Distributed data mining: Algorithms systems, and applications. 2002 14 L. Zeng, L. Li, L. Duan, K. Lu, Z. Shi, M. Wang, W. Wu, and P. Luo Distributed data mining: a survey. Information Technology and Management, pages 403Ö409, 2012 15 Li L. & Zhang M. \(2011\. The Strategy of Mining Association Rule Based on Cloud Computing. Proceeding of the 2011 International Conference on Business Computing and Global Informatization BCGIN è11\. Washington, DC, USA, IEEE: 475- 478 16 Li N., Zeng L., He Q. & Shi Z. \(2012\. Parallel Implementation of Apriori Algorithm Based on MapReduce. Proc. of the 13th ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Parallel & Distributed Computing SNPD è12\. Kyoto, IEEE: 236 Ö 241 17 Lin M., Lee P. & Hsueh S. \(2012\. Apriori-based Frequent Itemset Mining Algorithms on MapReduce. Proc. of the 16th International Conference on Ubiquitous Information Management and Communication \(ICUIMC è12\. New York, NY, USA, ACM: Article No. 76 18 Yang X.Y., Liu Z. & Fu Y. \(2010\. MapReduce as a Programming Model for Association Rules Algorithm on Hadoop. Proc. of the 3rd International Conference on Information Sciences and Interaction Sciences \(ICIS è10\. Chengdu, China, IEEE: 99 Ö 102 19 S. Hammoud. MapReduce Network Enabled Algorithms for Classification Based on Association Rules. Thesis, 2011 20 Synthetic Data Generation Code for Associations and Sequential Patterns. Intelligent Information Systems, IBM Almaden Research Center http://www.almaden.ibm.com/software/quest/Resources/index.shtml 21 C.L. Blake and C.J. Merz. UCI Repository of Machine Learning Databases. Dept. of Information and Computer Science, University of California at Irvine, CA, USA. 1998 http://www.ics.uci.edu/mlearn/MLRepository.html 22 HadoopApriori. https://github.com/solitaryreaper/HadoopApriori 2 3 H.V. Nguyen, E. Muller, K. Bohm. 4S: Scalable Subspace Search Schema Overcoming Traditional Apriori Processing. 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data. 2013 24 S. Moens, E. Aksehirli and Goethals. Frequent Itemset Mining for Big Data. University Antwerpen, Belgium. 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data. 2013 25 Y. Bu et al . HaLoop: E cient iterative data processing on large clusters. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, 3\(1-2\:285Ö296 2010 26 Frequent itemset mining dataset repository. http://fimi.us.ac.be/data 2004   
002 
Our experiments show that YAFIM is about 18 faster than Apriori algorithms implemented in MapReduce framework Furthermore, we can achieve a better performance in both sizeup and speedup for different datasets. In addition, we also evaluated YAFIM for medical application and revealed that YAFIM outperforms MRApriori about 25 speedup  A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work is funded in part by China NSF Grants \(No 61223003\, and the USA Intel Labs University Research Program R EFERENCES  1 
002 
1671 


