An Approach to Mining Association Rules in Horizontally Distributed Databases with Anonymous ID Assignment          Abstract Data Mining is the technique of automated extraction of interesting data patterns used to represent knowledge, from the large data sets but sometimes these datasets are divided among various parties. Association rule mining is a popular mining technique that identifies interesting correlations between database attributes. In this paper, proposed a protocol Privacy Preserving Fast Distributed Mining \(PPFDM\ for association rules mining in horizontally distributed databases which is based on the Fast Distributed Mining \(FDM\lgorithm. FDM is an unsecured distributed version of the Apriori algorithm devoted to generate a small number of candidate sets and considerably cut down the number of messages to be passed at mining association rules PPFDM adopts two major ideas: one that computes the union of private subsets that each of the interacting player holds and another that evaluate the inclusion of an element held by one player in a subset held by another. An implementation of a PPDM algorithm is developed in Java framework and performance results are presented for synthetic data generation and association rules as well as indexing is provided to the user. It is simpler and significantly more efficient in the matter of communication rounds, communication cost and computational cost  Index Terms— association rules , Privacy preserving data mining, distributed  database, frequent item sets  anonymous ID assignment  I  INTRODUCTION Data mining is inclined to extract important knowledge from large datasets. It is a powerful new technology with extreme potential to assist organizations to concentrate on the most important information in their data warehouses. Now a day many organizations manage huge amount of data which is mined to gain valuable knowledge by using several available data mining techniques. Data mining is useful within an organization as well as can provide more benefits with the combined data of multiple organizations. But sharing data within multiple organizations creates probable privacy problems. The motivation to keep one's own delicate data secret is an important challenge of preserving privacy while mining  The firmly related field of Privacy Preserving Data Mining \(PPDM\ appends the dimension of privacy to the problem, trying to asset the ways that organizations can collaborate to mine their databases collectively, while at the same time preserving the privacy of their records. Association rule mining is one of the data mining techniques applied in distributed databases, discloses some interesting relationships between locally large as well as globally large item sets[2   T h e D i st ri b u te d  databases are a sole logical databases that is spread across more than one node or locations that are all associated via some communication link. Horizontal Partitioning is defined as ‘the different sites may have different sets of records consisting the same attributes’. The idea is to use association rules for prediction purposes: if bread, butter and milk often appear in the same transactions, then the presence of butter and milk in a shopping cart commend that the customer may also buy bread. More generally knowing which items a shopping cart may contains shop-keeper can assume other items that the customer is likely to add before proceeding to the checkout counter The paper defines a problem of secure multi-party computation. In the corresponding problems, there are N players that clasp private inputs, x=\(x1 xN\d they desire to calculate y =h\(x1, . . . , xN for some mutual function h. If a trusted third party is available, the players could hand over to the their party, their particular inputs and third party  would execute the function evaluation and deliver them back the resulting output. But when there is no appearance a trusted third party, it is essential to create a protocol that the players can evaluate by their own for the purpose to gain the required output. Then that protocol is treated perfectly immune if there is no player able to study from his perspective of the protocol more than what he  Ms. Hemlata Dakhore Assistant Professor Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering G.H. Raisoni Institute of Engineering and Technology for Women, Nagpur RTMNU, Nagpur hemlata.dakhore@raisoni.net  Ms. Manali Rajeev Raut Mtech CSE \(IV sem Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering G.H. Raisoni Institute of Engineering and Technology for Women, Nagpur RTMNU, Nagpur manaliraut2@gmail.com  Proceedin g s of 2015 Global Conference on Communication Technolo g ies  GCCT 2015  978-1-4799-8553-1/15/$31.00 © 2015 IEEE 391 


would have studied in the  setting where the computation is done by a trusted third party This paper plotted the above problem of association rules mining in horizontally distributed databases and contemplated synthetic database generation after that generate association rules. The purpose is to find all association rules with support s and confidence c to minimize the information disclosed about the private databases held by those players   T h i s pa per a l s o de si gned an a l go ri t h m  PP FD M  privacy preserving fast distributed mining algorithm for horizontally distributed data sets and assets interesting association or correlation relationships among a large set of data items and to integrate cryptographic techniques to reduce the information which is going to shared with residual, while appending lmited overhead to the mining task [1   II  LITERATURE  REVIEW Tamir Tassa in the paper [1 o p o s e d th e p r o b l e m  of secure mining of association rules in horizontally distributed databases. The main thought of using the protocol Fast Distributed Mining algorithm \(FDM is that after finding the locally s-frequent item sets the player should check each item to find out globally s-frequent item set. The main aim of the paper is to offer better privacy and reduced communicational and computational cost while the solution is still leaks some excess information 1  T h e p a p e r   3 pr o p o s e d t w o m e t h ods El l i p t i c  Curve based Digital Signature Algorithm \(ECDSA and Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption Scheme ECIES\These algorithms used to mine the association rules with the minimum iterations as well as consume less time[3     In the paper [4  th e c o m b in ation  of A p ri or i  Algorithm and Extended Distributed Rk Secure Sum protocol is proposed where firstly apriori algorithm mine frequent items from all the individual parties then global result is obtained by Extended Distributed Rk- secure sum protocol Basically, the RK-secure sum protocol is secure multi party computation protocol which is used to hold global items without affecting privacy of the individual parties. All the parties are arranged in the bus networks, where first one is protocol initiator called as p1  Like pape   t h e  p a pe r [5 a l s o us e s t h e combination of Apriori Algorithm and playfair cipher technique. This paper described the two parts of association rule; Antecedent and consequent. The item found in the database is called as Antecedent and the item found in the combination is consequent. Here, firstly the apriori algorithm for generates association rules then the playfair cipher encrypts some pair of letters. This technique requires 5 by 5 table which contains keyword  The paper [6  pr opo sed F P t r ee whi c h i s use d t o  generate global frequent item sets with the help of association rules. FP tree is defined as the compact data structure because it finds the global frequent item set without generating candidate item sets Data Encryption Standard \(DES\ is used here to provide privacy to the resultant item set. Data Encryption Standard \(DES\ also called as Double Encryption because it provides higher security to database by the help of two keys which double encryption and double decryption. This paper shows the zero percent data leakage with minimum time complexity.The paper [7 e als w ith th e t w o  important problems of association rule mining i.e hiding of data and hiding of knowledge. Data hiding is described as the method of removing confidential information from the database before its disclosure  Apriori algorithm is devoted to generate candidate itemsets. It scan the all database first for pruning and then gives result in the form of frequent itemset But apriori algorithm is not as efficient as over large database hence the paper [8 im prov e d th e a p ri or i  and put forward a new method called Sampling. It is used to sample the data from the large database to find frequent itemsets. The paper a l s o d e s c r i bed about the SamplingHT algorithm, is the combination of hash table and sampling algorithm In the SamplingHT algorithm, the sample size of the data and negative border is calculated. After that hash table generate the frequent itemset. The negative border is used to reduce the running time of the algorithm  The paper [9 th e su rv ey p a p e r w h ich in tro d u c e  the 5 data mining algorithm i.e. MSApriori, Apriori Algorithm, Aprori with Systematic rules, MCISI Algorithm and HMT. Apriori algorithm is inclined to gain candidate itemsets. It scan all the database first for pruning and then delivers resulting frequent itemset and discard those candidate item set value which is lower than defined support. Minimum support apriori \(MSApriori\ used to provide the distinct minimum item support values for different items in the database. In the MCISI algorithm search many imperfectly sporadic rule and also sporadic item sets. Systematic rules are also described in [9  p a p e r w h ere u s er is n o t all o w to  specify minimum support value to gain frequent item sets and timing algorithm is also devoted to save time with scanning of the whole transactional database. The Hash Mapping Table \(HMT availed to abbreviate the given data sets  Now a day, privacy preserving for the data and the owner is becoming a problem in case of distributed server sharing. The solutions are exists but for central server model which is computationally expensive and because of low data security and Proceedin g s of 2015 Global Conference on Communication Technolo g ies  GCCT 2015  978-1-4799-8553-1/15/$31.00 © 2015 IEEE 392 


huge bandwidth tradeoff it is not useful for distributed server model. Hence the paper [11  focuses on distributed model assigning IDs to nodes user\hich are anonymous. Each node chooses random values with the help of Anonymous ID assignment \(AIDA\ algorithm. These IDs can used for sharing communication bandwidth as it uses network setup where number of clients can register and shares data and also for data storage. The advantage of this algorithm is at the transaction, no id being visible to any group member or person AIDA is not a cryptographic algorithm hence it saves memory space. This paper shows that the privacy preserving with the help of anonymous ID assignment is successful. Like paper [1 t h e p a per 12 a d dr es s e s  an alg or ith m to s h a r e th e s i m p l e  integer data, it allows the secure sum to be collected with the guarantees of anonymity. This paper addresses the complexities of the secure multiparty computation. The Anonymous IDs are used in sensor networks to secure the individual nodes  III  PROPOSED  METHODOLOGY The proposed methodology section describes the rationale for the application of specific techniques used to identify, select, and analyze information applied to understanding the problem. This paper proposed a novel algorithm for optimization of association rule mining, Privacy Preserving Fast Distributed Mining \(PPFDM\ It takes partial databases as input and gives result as list of association rules which consist of unified databases with support s and confidence c[1 T h e in f o rm ation  that would like to protect in this paper is not only personal transaction in the different-different databases, yet also further global or public data such as what association rules are supported locally in each of those databases[1 2     In particular, PPFDM protocol independent on commutative encryption and oblivious transfer of the data. The proposed protocol improves upon that in [2 in t e rm s o f sim p lic ity an d ef f i ci en cy as w e ll  as privacy and also resolves the problem of leakage of information. The Privacy preserving fast distributed mining \(PPFDM\orithm is a combination of Fast Distributed mining algorithm FDM a n d a n o nym o u s I D a ssignm e n t AIDA\[10 F D M is an u n s ecu re d dis t r i bu t e d  version of the Apriori algorithm and AIDA is used for security of the databases. The Privacy preserving fast distributed mining \(PPFDM protocol involves following steps 4.1 Synthetic database generation Data generation has always been an important phase in Data Mining. There are so many techniques like random sequences, normal distribution, etc to generate data of certain distribution. Despite the keen interest, the research is still going on for the generation of synthetic data for numerous applications. In this method, the input data is generated to test the correctness of the given data mining algorithm. For instance: The synthetic data is generated here to evaluate the performance of the PPFDM algorithms over a large range of dataset. In the real world, it considered that the people tend to buy sets of items together and each set has potentially large itemset,  a transaction in the database contains a transaction ID and an itemset Acquisition of itemsets practiced for transaction databases and bunch of association rules can be characterized as binary matrices with columns corresponding to the items and rows corresponding to the itemsets. An example of a binary matrix containing itemsets for the database shown in the following table TABLE I: Example of a collection of itemsets  Itemsets Items i1 i2 i3 i4 X1 X2 X3 X4  1 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0  The generation of synthetic data is an implicate process of data anonymization  means synthetic data is a subdivision of anonymized data Researchers or software developers availed to evaluate against a safe data set without disturbing or even approaching the original data, to protect them for privacy and security and also let them create enormous data sets. For different ambitions, it’s devotion for synthetic data sets to display more or less selected properties of the original data sets. To generate a dataset, the synthetic data generation takes the parameters shown in table below  TABLE II: Parameters for Generating the Synthetic Database  Parameters Interpretations N Number of transactions in the whole database L Number of items At Transaction average size Af Average size of maximal potentially large itemsets Nf Number of maximal potentially large itemsets CS Clustering size PS Pool size Cor Correlation level MF Multiplying factor  4.2 Apriori Algorithm Proceedin g s of 2015 Global Conference on Communication Technolo g ies  GCCT 2015  978-1-4799-8553-1/15/$31.00 © 2015 IEEE 393 


Apriori is an algorithm, implemented by Agrawal and Srikant in1994, determine the frequent individual items in the database and enhance them to the larger item sets. The term of algorithm Apriori is planted on the fact that the this algorithm causes a prior knowledge of frequent itemset properties. It finds candidate item sets having length L from item sets of length L-1. Then it prunes the candidates to check the infrequent pattern and assure that all the subsets of the candidate sets are earlier accepted to be frequent itemsets. After that, scanning is done to evaluate frequent item sets among the candidates. The frequent item sets determined by Apriori can be purposed to determine association rules, this application is called as ‘market basket analysis The output of Apriori is a bunch of rules that express how often items are accommodate in sets of data  4.3 Association Rules Association rule mining is one of the data mining technique inclined to asset the association relationship amongst the large set of data with the help of minimum support and minimum confidence The problem is usually dissolved into two sub problems. One is to gain those itemsets whose occurrences beat a already defined threshold in the database; those item sets are known as frequent or large itemsets with the compulsion of minimal confidence. For instance, in supermarket, The set of items is I = {eggs, bread, butter, milk}. Rule of Supermarket could be {eggs, bread butter indicates that if user buy milk and bread then he may buy butter too Table III: An example supermarket database  Transaction ID Items 1 eggs, bread 2 bread, butter 3 milk 4 juice, bread, butter 5 bread, butter  Let I={item1, item 2,…. item m } be a group of items. Let D is the task relevant data and a group of dataset transaction where individual transaction T is a group of items such that T I. Each transaction is correlated with an identifier, called TID. Let A be the group of items. A transaction T is encompasses A if and only if A  T.  An association rule is an assumption of the form A B, where A  B   and A B The rule A B clasps the transaction set D with the aid of support s, where s is assumed as the percentage of transaction in D that consist of A B. This is assumed to be the probability, P\(A B\. The rule A B has confidence c in the transaction D, where c is known as the percent of transaction in D consisting A that also consist B. This is assumed to be the conditional probability, p \(B|A\Hence Support \(A B\ \(A B Confidence \(A B\ \(B|A  4.4 Privacy Preserving Data Mining Many researchers designed many techniques for privacy preserving association rule mining for databases. This paper also described the Anonymous ID assignment algorithm \(AIDA\ to preserve privacy for association rules in the area of distributed database. It is assign ID numbers to the nodes ranging from 1 to N so that the more complex data can be shared. In the secure multiparty computation, AIDA allows multiple players on a network to execute data globally; hence, the data hold by each player remains unknown to other players. This paper considers that the players \(data owners\are semi-honest. This technique is called as anonymous because IDs are unknown to the other members of the group as well as required evaluations are distributed without using a trusted central authority. For instance, assume there is a group of hospitals with individual datasets and desire to evaluate and share only the some of a data item, like the number of hospital having infection of flu, without revealing the value of this data item to others. Thus, the data items have the IDs and desire to evaluate and share the value. The dynamic unique IDs are useful for storage and sharing of data. In AIDA, random integers between 1 and S are chosen by each node such that S N [10    Algorithm: Given nodes, n1,n2....nM uses distributed computation to search an anonymous indexing permutation s: {1,...,.....,M 1,...,.....,M 1\ Firm the number of assigned nodes, X=0 2\Each unassigned node ni chooses a random number ri in the range 1 to S. A node assigned in a previous round chooses ri=0 3\ The arbitrary numbers are divided anonymously Denote the shared values by A1,qA2,...... qAM 4\ Let qA1....qAk denote a improved list of shared values with duplicated and zero values fully removed where k is the number of unique arbitrary values. The node ni which tied the unique random numbers then determine their index si from the position of their random number in the improved list as it would appear after being sorted si=X+ Card {qj : qj ri 5\ Update the number of nodes assigned: X=X+k 6\ If X<M then return to step \(2 Example: Suppose that four user participate to seek for an AIDA. Random numbers are 6, 10, 6 and 2 The resultant indexing is then 3,2,4,1 as shown in fig 5  4.5 The Fast Distributed Mining Algorithm This paper is planted on the Privacy Preserving Fast Distributed Mining algorithm \(PPFDM\ which is a Proceedin g s of 2015 Global Conference on Communication Technolo g ies  GCCT 2015  978-1-4799-8553-1/15/$31.00 © 2015 IEEE 394 


combo of privacy preserving and Fast Distributed mining algorithm which is an sloppy dispersed version of the Apriori algorithm. Its main belief behind is that any s-frequent item set have to be also locally s-frequent in at least one of the datasites Hence, in order to search all globally s-frequent item sets, individual player shows his locally sfrequent item sets and then the players evaluate each of them to check if they are s-frequent also globally. The FDM algorithm continues as follows  1  Candidate Sets Generation: Individual player p m evaluates the group of all \(k-1\tem sets, L K1 that are locally frequent and also globally frequent. The idea behind the candidate set generation is that if an itemset X has minimum support, so achieve all subsets of  X. Hence the player then employees group the Apriori algorithm on L K-1 in order to develop the group of candidate k-item sets  2  Local Pruning: The pruning step excludes the expansion of \(K-1\ itemsets which are not gain to be frequent. Here, player p m evaluates suppm\(X\. He then returns only those item sets that are locally s-frequent. The paper describe this collection of item set by C s k,m   3  Computing local supports: All players evaluates the local supports of all item sets in C s k,m   4  Broadcast mining results: Particular player discloses the local supports that he gain earlier From that, anyone can evaluate the global support of each item set in C s k,m At last, F s k is the subset of C s k,m that contains all globally sfrequent k-item sets   Fig 1: Architecture Of PPFDM \(Privacy Preserving Fast Distributed Data Mining  The paper designed the architecture of privacy preserving Fast distributed data mining \(PPFDM with help of Fast distributed Mining algorithm and Anonymous ID assignment. The evaluation time of this protocol is expected to reduce the cost of secure computation of the individually frequent itemsets Thus, the security offered by this protocol is customized by increased implementation cost IV.EXPERIMENTAL  SETUP This paper present the results obtained by the implementation of the algorithm. Firstly the synthetic data is generated by the same techniques that were implemented in [1  A f te r th a t th e  association rule is derived so that the new set of rules is generated. This algorithm is implemented in Java Language because it contains the Java Data Mining \(JDM\ API to develop the applications in data mining and tools  The snapshots of Synthetic data, association rules and data sharing are as follows which are acquired during implementation   Fig 2:The screenshot of Synthetic Data Generation default parameters  Fig 3 : The screenshot of Synthetic Data is generated. The message dialog box acknowledges that data is generated Proceedin g s of 2015 Global Conference on Communication Technolo g ies  GCCT 2015  978-1-4799-8553-1/15/$31.00 © 2015 IEEE 395 


 Fig 4: The screenshot of association rules generated  Fig 5: The indexing is calculated by Anonymous ID assignemnt  Fig 6: Data is shared according to the indexing provided V  CONCLUSION The paper proposed a novel protocol for optimization of mining of association rules for horizontally distributed databases. The PPFDM algorithms have the potential to advances the production of vital knowledge for individuals as well as organizations. The paper shown that the distributed association rule mining can be implemented efficiently with the reasonable security assumption. The current protocol improves in terms of privacy and security. As well, the objective of the paper is achieved by successfully generating the synthetic data and association rules and indexing is provided. This paper studied and suggest research problem is that the implementation of technique shown here to the problem of association rule mining in the vertical setting  VI  REFERENCES 1  Tamir Tassa,”Secure mining of association rule in horizontally distributed databases” ,IEEE trans Konwledege and Data Engg. ,Vol. 26, no.2, April 2014 2 M. K a nt ar cio g l u a nd C. Cl i f to n P r i v acy P re s e rv ing  Distributed Mining of Association Rules on Horizontally Partitioned Data,” IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Eng vol. 16, no. 9, pp. 1026-1037, Sept. 2004 3 r i s h n a Pra t a p Ra o A d es h ch au dh a r y  Pra s ha nt  j o h r i Elliptic Curve Cryptography Based Algorithm for Privacy Preserving in Data Mining", International Journal for research in Applied Science and Engineering Technology IJRASET\ ,Vol. 2 Issue V, May 2014 4 Me e r a T r e e s a Mathe w s  Ma nj u E  V   E x te nde d D i s t r i b u te d  RK- Secure Sum Protocol in Apriori Algorithm for Privacy Preserving", International Journal of Engineering and Advanced Technology \(IJEAT\, Volume-3, Issue-4, April 2014 5  J a g a n n a d h a V a r m a  A m r u th as e s ha dr i M P r iy anka   M.Ajay Kumar, B.L.Bharadwaj Varma, " Association Rule Mining with Security Based on Playfair Cipher Technique IJCSIT\ International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technologies, Vol. 5 \(1\ , 2014 6 J y ot i r m a y e e R a ut a r a y  R a ghven d r a K u m a r Pri va c y    Preserving In Distributed Database Using Data Encryption Standard \(DES\ ", International Journal of Innovative Research in Science, Engineering and Technology Vol. 2 Issue 3, March 2013 7 P r o f  Ge e t i k a  N a r a n g  An j u m S h a i k h  Ar t i S o n a wa n e   Kanchan Shegar, Madhuri Andhale," Preservation Of Privacy In Mining Using Association Rule Technique International Journal of Scientific & Technology Research Volume 2, Issue 3, March 2013 8 Z h i L i u  T i a nh on g S u na nd G u om in g Sa n g   A n A l g o ri t h m of  Association Rules Mining in Large Databases Based on Sampling ", International Journal of Database Theory and Application Vol.6, No.6 , 2013 9 r iy an ka A s tha n a  A n ju S i ng h D i w a kar S i ng h A S u r v ey  on Association Rule Mining Using Apriori Based Algorithm and Hash Based Methods ",  International Journal of Advanced Research in Computer Science and Software Engineering.  Volume 3, Issue 7, July 2013 10 L a r r y  A   D u n n i n g  Me mb e r  I EEE, an d R a y  Kresman,”Privacy Preserving Data Sharing With Anonymous ID Assignment”, IEEE Transaction On Information Forensics and security, VOL. 8, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 2013  Ms  R  K a l a i va ni  M s  R  K i r u t h i ka   A u t o m a t e d A n on y m ou s  ID Assignment For Maintaining Data privacy”, Proceedings of 2nd International Conference on Science,Engineering and Management,Srinivasan Engineering college,TamilNadu,India,March 28-29,2014  S h in y   I  S S. G a y a t h ri   Secu re M u lti pa rt y C o m p u t a t i o n and Privacy Preserving Data Sharing with Anonymous ID Assignment”, International Journal of Engineering Research and Applications \(IJERA\ ISSN: 2248-9622 International Conference on Humming Bird ,01st March 2014 Proceedin g s of 2015 Global Conference on Communication Technolo g ies  GCCT 2015  978-1-4799-8553-1/15/$31.00 © 2015 IEEE 396 


         


       0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 of Queries Average time \(sec Scalability of MISA for WKL_1 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 100 200 300 400 500 600 of Queries Average time \(sec Scalability of MISA for WKL_2 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 500 5500 10500 15500 20500 25500 30500 of Queries Average time \(sec Scalability of MISA for WKL_3 Figure 2 Scalability of Mining Index Selection Approach for Three Workloads  J Kratica I Ljubic and D T osic  A genetic algorithm for the index selection problem In Applications of Evolutionary Computing Tech Rep 2003  D Comer  The Dif culty of Optimum Inde x Selection ACM Trans Database Syst  vol 3 no 4 pp 440…445 Dec 1978 A v ailable http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/320289.320296  techopedia Query Optimizer  2015 http://www.techopedia.com/de“nition/26224/query-optimizer Online accessed Online A v ailable http://www.techopedia.com/de“nition/26224/query-optimizer  J Dong and M Han Bittable An ef cient mining frequent itemsets algorithm Knowl.-Based Syst  vol 20 no 4 pp 329…335 2007 A v ailable http://dblp.unitrier.de/db/journals/kbs/kbs20.html  P  Ameri U Grabo wski J Me yer  and A Streit On the Application and Performance of MongoDB for Climate Satellite Data in 13th IEEE International 2808 


Conference on Trust Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications TrustCom 2014 Beijing China September 24-26 2014  IEEE 2014 pp 652…659 A v ailable http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom.2014.84  R Lutz P  Ameri T  Latzk o and J Me yer  Management of Meteorological Mass Data with MongoDB in 28th International Conference on Informatics for Environmental Protection ICT for Energy Ef“eciency EnviroInfo 2014 Oldenburg Germany September 10-12 2014 J.M.G  omez M Sonnenschein U Vogel A Winter B Rapp and N Giesen Eds BIS-Verlag 2014 pp 549…556 Available http://www.enviroinfo2014.org  A Caprara M Fischetti and D Maio Exact and Approximate Algorithms for the Index Selection Problem in Physical Database Design IEEE Trans Knowl Data Eng  vol 7 no 6 pp 955…967 1995  K Aouiche and J Darmont Data Mining-based Materialized View and Index Selection in Data Warehouses CoRR  vol abs/0707.1548 2007 A v ailable http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1548  N P asquier  Y  Bastide R T aouil and L Lakhal Discovering Frequent Closed Itemsets for Association Rules in Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Database Theory  ser ICDT 99 London UK Springer-Verlag 1999 pp 398…416 A v ailable http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=645503.656256  S Agra w al S Chaudhuri and V  R Narasayya  Automated Selection of Materialized Views and Indexes in SQL Databases in Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases  ser VLDB 00 San Francisco CA USA Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc 2000 pp 496…505 A v ailable http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=645926.671701  A Sk elle y  DB2 Advisor An Optimizer Smart Enough to Recommend Its Own Indexes in Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Data Engineering  ser ICDE 00 Washington DC USA IEEE Computer Society 2000 pp 101 A v ailable http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=846219.847390  W  G Pedrozo and M S M G V az A T ool for Automatic Index Selection in Database Management Systems in Proceedings of the 2014 International Symposium on Computer Consumer and Control  ser IS3C 14 Washington DC USA IEEE Computer Society 2014 pp 1061…1064 A v ailable http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IS3C.2014.277  M Zaman J Surabattula and L Gruenw ald An Auto-Indexing Technique for Databases Based on Clustering in Proceedings of the Database and Expert Systems Applications 15th International Workshop  ser DEXA 04 Washington DC USA IEEE Computer Society 2004 pp 776…780 A v ailable http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/DEXA.2004.32  S Chaudhuri and V  Narasayya An Ef cient Cost-Driven Index Selection Tool for Microsoft SQL Server in VLDB  Very Large Data Bases Endowment Inc August 1997 A v ailable http://research.microsoft.com/apps/pubs/default.aspx?id=68349  R Agra w a l and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases in Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases  ser VLDB 94 San Francisco CA USA Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc 1994 pp 487…499 A v ailable http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=645920.672836  B Goethals Memory Issues in Frequent Itemset Mining  in Proceedings of the 2004 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing  ser SAC 04 New York NY USA ACM 2004 pp 530…534 A v ailable http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/967900.968012  J Hipp U G  untzer and G Nakhaeizadeh Algorithms for Association Rule Mining Mdash a General Survey and Comparison SIGKDD Explor Newsl  vol 2 no 1 pp 58…64 Jun 2000 A v ailable http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/360402.360421  A Rajaraman and J D Ullman Mining of Massive Datasets  New York NY USA Cambridge University Press 2011  MongoDB Introduction to MongoDB  2015 http://www.mongodb.org/about/introduction Online accessed Online A v ailable http://www.mongodb.org/about/introduction  J Pok orn y  NoSQL Databases A Step to Database Scalability in Web Environment in Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Information Integration and Web-based Applications and Services  ser iiWAS 11 New York NY USA ACM 2011 pp 278…283 Available http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2095536.2095583  MongoDB SQL to MongoDB Mapping Chart 2015 http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/sqlcomparison Online accessed Online Available http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/sqlcomparison  BSON BSON Binary JSON  2015 http://bsonspec.or g Online accessed Online A v ailable http://bsonspec.org  MongoDB Inde x T ypes  2015 http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/core/index-types Online accessed Online A v ailable http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/core/index-types  R Core T eam R A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing  R Foundation for Statistical Computing Vienna Austria 2015 A v ailable http://www R-project.or g  MongoDB Inc and M Schmidber ger  rmongodb RMongoDB driver  2014 r package version 1.8.0 Available http://CRAN.R-project.org/package=rmongodb  K Bank er  MongoDB in Action  Minning Publication Co 2012 2809 


 MongoDB Geospatial Query Operators  2015 http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/operator/querygeospatial Online accessed 18 Online A v ailable http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/operator/querygeospatial  M K ormilitsin R Chirk o v a Y  F athi and M Stallmann View and Index Selection for Query-performance Improvement Quality-centered Algorithms and Heuristics in Proceedings of the 17th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management  ser CIKM 08 New York NY USA ACM 2008 pp 1329…1330 A v ailable http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1458082.1458261 2810 


