A Visualization Primitive for Multiway Relationships SeungJin Lim Computer Science Merrimack College North Andover MA 01845 lims@merrimack.edu Abstract 227With the unprecedented wave of Big Data the importance of information visualization is catching greater momentum Understanding the underlying relationships between constituent entities is a common task in every branch of science and visualization of such relationships is a critical part of data analysis While the techniques for the visualization of binary relationships are widespread visualization techniques for ternary or higher relationships are lacking In this paper we propose a visualization primitive which is suitable for multiway relationships Its effectiveness is demonstrated in 3-D visualization Keywords multiway relationship visualization frequent itemset I I NTRODUCTION Augustus De Morgan said 223When two objects qualities classes or attributes viewed together by the mind are seen under some connexion that connexion is called a relation.\224 Scienti\002c activities in any 002eld involve the identi\002cation of subject matters or entities and the relationships between them When the relationships of the constituent entities are understood the mysteries of the pertaining system are unfolded to our comprehension For example the universal law of gravity tells how two point entities attract each other with a force Likewise all the mathematical formulas in science are expressions of relationships among the constituent entities It is critical to understand these relationships to understand the full drama played by the entities Among the various degrees of relationships in terms of arity the binary relationship is the most common Binary relationships depict the relationship between two entities only and numerous applications are found in many branches in science Examples include the gravitation between two masses in physics symbiotic organisms in biology cocitation and co-authorship in bibliographic coupling studies spatial co-location in spatial data mining frequent 2-itemsets in association mining and friend relationship in social networks At the same time we recognize the rise of the signi\002cance of multiway relationships where three or more entities are related simultaneously For example the authors of  identi\002ed tw o types of friendship from their study on Facebook One type is the sympathy group which consist of approximately 15 close friends The other type is the Figure 1 Collaborative authors in scienti\002c publication support clique of 223friends on whom you would depend for emotional/social support in times of crisis.\224 The size of the second group is approximately 5 When all the individuals in a support clique have mutual dependency one another we say that the relationship is multiway and it may give critical information in a sociology or psychology study Entity relationships are commonly represented in a textual format using a data structure designed for the data A classic example is a tuple notation which is widely used in the relational database model Relationships are also represented graphically Edges between vertices in a graph G  050 V E 051 is a classical example of this kind of representation which has a dominant appearance in data/information visualization such as in social network analysis web graph and so forth The visualization of a binary relationship is conveniently and effectively done by drawing a line between the two related objects In Figure 1 the binary coauthorship relationship between G Barkerma and N Moursseau is apparent A drawback of this visualization is that the readers are prone to mistakingly derive the ternary relationship 050Barkerma Leeuw Moursseau\051 from 050Barkerma Leeuw\051 050Barkerma Moursseau\051 and 050Leeuw Moursseau\051 In this paper we propose a geometric primitive which is suitable for visualizing ternary or higher arity relationships in 3-D A set of design goals are also discussed The effectiveness of the proposed primitive is demonstrated with various real-world datasets as well as arti\002cial datasets The remainder of this paper is organized as follows In Section II some selected related works are presented We present a detailed discussion of the proposed visualization 
2016 IEEE International Symposium on Multimedia 978-1-5090-4571-6/16 $31.00 © 2016 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ISM.2016.42 267 


primitive with design goals in Section III We conclude our presentation with a future plan in Section IV II R ELATED W ORKS The topic of our work is generally related to scienti\002c visualization in which a global summary of data is often the primary interest On the other hand local details are also important in visual data exploration and mining to which our work is closely related A review on visual data exploration and mining can be found in Undirected relationships between entities are largely visualized as 2-D or 3-D matrices  9 or undirected graphs 7 3 A number of dif ferent approaches exist and they are conveniently categorized with respect to the layout of entities and visual cues representing relationships Difference in layout Two types of entity layouts are commonly found in the literature and in practice 1\051  Single set of entities Only one set of entities is used in the visualization The entities may be arranged along the circumference of a circle 050Figure 2a\051 on a single linear axis 050Figure 2b\051 or anywhere in the given plane 050Figure 2c\051 to carry the same information 2\051  Two sets of entities This layout can be thought of as a matrix where one axis carries the full set of entities and another axis perpendicular to the other axis carries the same set of entities in the same ordering This layout is extended often to capture the correlation between two variables The layout may also be extended to a 3-D space to amplify the visual effect of the signi\002cance of relationships Difference in the representation of relationships 1\051  Presence or absence of relationship When the presence or absence of a relationship between two entities is what matters connecting the two entities by an edge or a marker on a 2-D plot is suf\002cient The three visualizations in Figure 2 and scatter plot-like visualizations belong to this category 2\051  Signi\002cance of relationship In contrast Figure 1 shows the signi\002cance of a relationship using another visual cue such as thickness of edges color or density of color or height of object in a 3-D space As for the visualization techniques designed speci\002cally for data mining the authors of chose to sho w cluster analysis results in a 3-D matrix such that the square grid of horizontal axes represent data objects and the vertical axis represents the similarity between the two corresponding objects Visualization of geospatial point sets presented in  is inherently a similar 3-D matrix visualization since longitude and latitude values constitute X and Y axes We notice that these visualization techniques discussed above are designed for binary relationships and we are not aware of a technique suitable for multiway relationships at the time of this writing III V ISUALIZATION OF M ULTIWAY R ELATIONSHIPS We now present a discussion on our strategy for the visualization of multiway relationships The heart of the visualization of n ary relationships is to design a visualization primitive which is suitable for n ary relationships The primitive should not only be capable of rendering n ary relationships accurately but also guarantee that the rendering is exclusively for n ary only preventing it from being interpreted as any arity other than n  A Multiway Relationships as Hyperedges In developing an effective 3-D metaphor for n ary relationships where n is a reasonably large integer value we investigated several geometric shapes as options In particular we have considered three approaches to hyperedge 050a\051 A ternary and a 4-ary relationships with edges only 050b\051 A ternary and a 4-ary relationships with edges and a covering surface Figure 3 Two hyperedge techniques for n ary relationships The 002rst approach is simply connecting the constituent entities to the center of the entities with n lines for n ary relationships An example of this approach is shown in Figure 3a This approach is computationally ef\002cient Also each hyperedge is thin and occupies less pixels on the screen than the other approaches Hence it offers more visual information on the screen than the others However it presents a challenge to identify the correct connecting center of a relationship When there are many relationships and the degrees of the relationships are diverse the problem is augmented The next approach is to add a geometric surface to the hyperdge at the expense of incurring more computation and leaving less visual information space In Figure 3b we add to the edges a polygon which has k sides for k ary tuples The advantage of this approach is that multiway relations can be identi\002ed quicker and easier with the aid of the polygon surface and that it is relatively easy to implement However it has a considerable drawback each hyperedge occupies a much larger area than the previous edge-only approach leaving less amount of unoccupied pixels on the screen Hypothetically when the degree of a relationship is close to the maximum arity it is possible that the single hyperedge would block nearly the entire visualization space 
268 


050a\051 Circular layout 050b\051 Kandinski layout 050c\051 Podevsef layout Figure 2 Various approaches to visualization of relationships using a single set of entities 050although such high-degree relationships are not common in real-world datasets\051 Between these two approaches we take the second approach with a modi\002cation mainly because of its strength to distinguish relationships and their arities The improvement that we made to the second hyperedge approach is two-fold we use concave sides for the polygon surface to reduce the amount of pixels to use and spherical edges are used that the proposed visualization primitive may be used in a 3-D visualization as well For an example of 3 ary hyperedge we can employ a hyperbolic triangle that can be found in hyperbolic geometry The characteristics of a hyperbolic triangles are well studied in a 2-D space However extending the theory of hyperbolic triangles to a higher dimensional geometric shape for the purpose of implementation requires substantially more effort The novelty of our work in implementing spherical edges and accompanying concave-sided polygon surfaces is to use Bezier curves as discussed below B Geometry of hyperedges As discussed earlier the proposed hyperedge primitive has edges 050we call them 223legs\224\051 and a cover in our 3-D metaphor A n ary hyperedge has n legs plus a 3-D surface covering the midpoint of the legs to make it easier to identify the arity of the underlying relationship and to augment the 3D look of the hyperedge In designing and implementing such hyperedges we ought to maximize the separation of hyperedges from each other for effective data analysis We begin with the construction of legs Each n ary relationship is 002rst mapped to a n ary hyperedge of n legs each of which is a quadratic Bezier curve standing vertically A quadratic Bezier curve requires three control points to de\002ne Given three control points p 0  p 1 and p 2  the quadratic Bezier curve is de\002ned as a function of t 2  B 050 t 051  0501 000 t 051 2 001 p 0  2 t 0501 000 t 051 001 p 1  t 2 001 p 2 where t denotes a curve segment Let I be a n ary relationship whose constituent n entities i 1      i n  are located on the circumference of a circle and let p m be the middle point of the n objects representing the n entities on the x z plane Then we can construct the hyperedge for the n ary relationship as follows First take i 1 as p 0 of the corresponding quadratic Bezier curve We can compute the location of p 2 such that p 2 is the opposite point of p 0 on the circle about p m  Furthermore set the y axis value 050i.e the height\051 of p m to the statistical signi\002cance value of I  Now we can create a quadratic Bezier curve using the three control points p 0  p m and p 2  Take the half of the curve on the p 0 side as the component curve for i 1  Repeat the steps to construct component Bezier curves for the other entities The resulting n Bezier curves are joined at the peak point to yield a parabolic-shaped hyperedge whose height is scaled by the statistical signi\002cance of the corresponding n ary relationship automatically The hyperedge is further decorated with a concave-sided polygon cover over the peak point for visual clarity Figure 4a shows examples of hyperedges for 3to 7-ary relationships Hyperedges for 3 tuples are constructed from three Bezier curves with a cover at the joining point of each hyperedge as shown in the 002gure The 002gure also illustrates that relationships of higher arity can also be constructed seamlessly using the same algorithm Notice that each side of the polygon cover of a hyperedge is also a Bezier curve the exact shape of which is determined by the locations of the control points The length of the uncovered portion of a leg by the corresponding cover is about 50 of the leg length 050measured from the bottom to the peak\051 in average We found that this parameter yields good visual feedback while not dominantly covering other hyperedges when its value is about 80 C Visual cues Visualization of relationships of arbitrary arities would be challenging mainly due to the fact that the arity of relationships can vary widely and the number of relationships that are dealt in data warehouses or in big data can be very large Also users may respond to the visual stimuli coming from a large number of visual primitives differently Visualization of relationships using multiple visual cues is generally more effective than using a single visual cue as long as they are used with consistency In the proposed visualization primitive for n ary relationships multiple visual cues are used to maximize the discriminative power of the metaphors shape color illumination height and thickness 
269 


050a\051 Hyperedges with spherical edges only 050b\051 Hyperedges with spherical edges and polygons with straight sides 050c\051 Hyperedges with spherical edges and polygons with convex sides 050d\051 Hyperedges of random arity and statistical signi\002cance Figure 4 Hyperedges for relationships of various arity Relative location Since the peak point of each component Bezier curve of a hyperedge is a function of its associated control points hyperedges tend to be spatially cohesive when hyperedges are rendered on the same screen For example the four 6 ary and 7 ary relationships in Figure 4c form a clump This tendency will increase toward the center of the screen as the arity of relationships increases 050in other words the distribution of the entities becomes more even on the base circle\051 Color The hue of the legs e representing a n ary relationship is determined by the statistical signi\002cance of the relationship using the following formula hue 050 e 051  max 000 weight 050 e 051  max where max is the maximum signi\002cance in the dataset and weight 050 e 051 is the statistical signi\002cance of the corresponding relationship With this color scheme the most signi\002cant edges are rendered in red and the least signi\002cant ones in blue with yellow and green edges in between Illumination Shading is a natural phenomenon to real 3-D objects under illumination We add a pseudo-shading effect to hyperedges to augment their 3-D look by applying varying illumination rather than uniform illumination The edge illumination is de\002ned as a function of t 2  illumination 050 t 051  000 050 t 000 0  5\051 2  0  5 2  1 where t denotes a curve segment The above formula guarantees a leg to be the brightest at the vertex point 050i.e peak point\051 and gradually darker toward both end points as illustrated in Figure 4 IV C ONCLUSION A 3-D visual metaphor for n ary relationships is presented in this paper The proposed visualization primitive accurately conveys the arity of a relationship with its statistical signi\002cance using multiple visual cues The entities are arranged along the circumference of a circle to resolve the potential positional and orientational visual bias inherent in a rectangular layout Each n ary relationship is modeled as a novel n arity hyperedge The metaphor is implemented as visual primitives of high quality and shows a good separation of different arities While the effectiveness of our model is generally demonstrated through a handful of experiments we forewarn the reader that ef\002ciency in terms of memory requirement could be a concern in comparison to 2-D multivariate visualization techniques as we render information as high quality 3-D objects In the future we will develop a 2-D version of the hyperedge which will be useful on printed media R EFERENCES   Michael A Bekos Michael Kaufmann Stephen G Kobourov and Antonios Symvonis Smooth Orthogonal Layouts 17\0505\051:575\226595 2013   Maria Cristina Ferreira de Oliveira and Haim Levkowitz From Visual Data Exploration to Visual Data Mining A Survey IEEE TVCG  9\0503\051:378\226394 Jul-Sep 2003   Tze-Haw Huang and Mao Lin Huang Analysis and Visualization of Co-authorship Networks for Understanding Academic Collaboration and Knowledge Domain of Individual Researchers In Proc of the 3rd CGIV  pages 18\22623 2006   Daniel A Keim Christian Panse Mike Sips and Stephen C North Visual Data Mining in Large Geospatial Point Sets IEEE CG&A  24\0505\051:36\22644 Sep-Oct 2004   SeungJin Lim An Interactive 3D Visual Exploration Tool for Undirected Relationships In Proc of IEEE Int'l Symposium on Multimedia 050ISM 2008\051  pages 460\226467 Dec 2008   Y Matsuo and M Ishizuka Keyword Extraction from a Single Document using Word Co-occurrence Statistical Information Int'l J on AI Tools  13:157\226169 2004   M E J Newman Coauthorship networks and patterns of scienti\002c collaboration Proc of the National Academy of Sciences of USA  101\0501\051:5200\2265205 April 6 2004   A Sutcliffe R Dunbar J Binder and H Arrow Relationships and the social brain integrating psychological and evolutionary perspective British J of Psychology  103\0502\051:149\226168 2012   Eduardo Tejada and Rosane Minghim Improved Visual Clustering of Large Multi-dimensional Data Sets In Proc of the 9th Int'l Conf on Info Vis  pages 818\226825 July 2005 
270 


Proposed dynamically construction of pattern tree and calculate introduced can vary depending density of the 2016 2nd International Conference on Contemporary Computing and Informatics ic3i Not tested for concept drift single and multi node configuration Dai Caiyan, Chen Ling [23  Riddhi Anjankumar data which cannot be quantified accurately timely deleted from the pattern tree reducing the memory and processing time From the pattern tree, Head table and Frequent Closed Itemset Table The algorithm is developed by merging Lossy Counting and CloStream[13 al g o r it hms an d na me d as L C C l o S t r e am  itemsets Uses a naive method to find closed frequent While computing support of the itemsets in the sliding window lossy counting is used and CloStream is used for maintaining the     Finds Top K Closed Frequent Itemsets The infrequent itemsets whose density is less than Used bit vector for representing tids for items 2016 2016 2016 K EY FINDINGS OF THE SURVEY  Earlier algorithms extended frequent itemset mining algorithms to mine CFIs and used tree and lattice data structures While some algorithms required minimum support to be specified, couple of algorithms were developed to mine all CFIs from the data stream. Recent techniques are focused on mining top K CFIs where user need not have mention minimum support but need to specify the K value. From our previous work on mining approximate frequent itemsets from data streams [2 w e  have observed that specifying an optimum minimum support threshold is not possible for an uncertain data stream. For lower minimum support threshold, we will find a very large number of frequent itemsets for dense data but none or very small number for sparse data. So either the algorithm should mine all CFIs or shall learn the value of minimum support threshold value from the data itself based density and drifting concepts Due to limited memory in the computational systems algorithms have been continuously improved for better memory utilization. Different data structures like tree, lattice, table form etc have been proposed. Since tree and lattice format compresses the original database to a large extent, traversing it is complex and time consuming. So hybrid method of using tree or lattice along with table format is preferred. The algorithm shall not require the complete list of CFIs to be in the memory for searching. Instead should adopt techniques to merge itemsets with acceptable approximation and develop an compact structure to quickly identify CFIs from latest transactions from data streams reducing the memory footprint and processing time To make the algorithms faster and memory efficient approximation, minimum length, maximum length of itemsets etc have been used to prune infrequent and uninterested itemsets. If the dimensionality of the data is uncertain then it will be difficult to specify the minimum and maximum length of the interested itemsets. The error introduced due to approximation will not be constant for all the itemsets for both dense and sparse data. The error will be more for less frequent sparse data bur less for frequent and dense data. So there is a need for an algorithm to use approximation with less error or specified acceptable error with uniform error distribution Big data has gained lot of focus in the recent years. Due to the wide use of internet enabled smart portable devices, increased deployment of Internet-of-Things \(IoT\etc has pushed several applications to process the high speed data stream in faster and distributed manner. Since big data analytics and distributed computing has gained focus from recent years, the algorithm for mining CFIs on high speed data from parallel different source shall be developed using distributed computing techniques. This also complicates the data structure used to store CFIs as it also needs to be distributed Last but not the least, the distributed data structure used to store CFIs from big data stream shall be queried in real-time. A distributed query processing framework shall be developed which can process user queries and return the result in real-time V 002 002 threshold are 002 002 002 002 002 002 002 Shah M. Janaki Meena and S.P Syed Ibrahim [2 Support values are approximated and error 2 Koji Iwanuma, Yoshitaka Yamamoto, Shoshi Fukuda[22 itemset tree densities of the itemsets in tree using a time fading factor IV C ONCLUSION  Even though data mining is being performed on small and large databases from many decades, mining data streams were not a regular practice due to its complexity. But as the size and frequency of micro data generation increased like IoT, Retail transactions, GPS, Smart Phones etc, demand for faster and realtime data mining algorithm have raised. Businesses requires decision to be taken in real-time with change in nature of the business operations and customer preferences. These demands can be fulfilled by mining data streams as they arrive before storing in the persistent storage 546 Experimented on Big Data context where the algorithm is tested on itemset and their support values Error gets introduced due to timely deletion of low density itemsets which can be improved to increase the accuracy of the closed frequent         1   1    1          Itemsets are stored in lattice format 


Cao Xiaojun, "Mining Accurate Top-K Frequent Closed Itemset from Data Stream", in Proc. of Int. Conf. on Computer Science and Electronics Engineering, Mar 2012, pp. 181 - 184  Hua-Fu Li, Chin-Chuan Ho and Suh-Yin Lee, "Incremental updates of closed frequent itemsets over continuous data stream", Internal Journal of Expert Systems with Applications, Vol. 36, Issue 2, Part 1, Elesevier Publication, Mar 2009, pp. 2451-2458  Pavitra Bai S and Ravi Kumar G K, "Efficient Incremental Itemset Tree for Approximate Itemset Mining on Data Stream", in Proc. of 2nd IEEE Int Conf. on Applied and Theoretical Computing and Communication Technology \(iCATccT - 2016\. ISBN: 978-1-5090-2398-1, 2016, in press  Mohammed J. Zaki and Ching-Jui Hsiao, "CHARM: An Efficient Algorithm for Closed Itemset Mining", in Proc. of Int. Conf. on Data Mining, Apr 2002, pp. 457-473 3 Vikas Kumar and Sangita Rani Satapathy, "A novel technique for mining closed frequent itemsets using variable sliding window", in Proc. IEEE Int Conf. on Advance Computing, Feb 2014, pp. 504 - 510  R. Agrawal, H. Mannila, R. Srikant, H. Toivonen and A. Inkeri Verkamo Fast discovery of association rules", Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 1996, pp. 307-328 2 Yun Chi, Haixun Wang and P.S. Yu, "Moment: maintaining closed frequent itemsets over a stream sliding window", in Proc. 4th IEEE Int Conf. on Data Mining, Nov 2004 6 Haifeng Li, Zongjian Lu and Hong Chen, "Mining Approximate Closed Frequent Itemsets over Stream", in Proc. 9th ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Parallel/Distributed Computing, Aug 2008  Ye In Chang, Chia En Li and Wei Hau Peng, "An Efficient Subset-Lattice Algorithm for Mining Closed Frequent Itemsets in Data Streams", in Proc Int. Conf. on Technologies and Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Nov 2012  Zahoor ur Rehman, Muhammad Shahbaz, Muhammad Shaheen and Aziz Guergachi, "FPS-Tree Algorithm to Find Top-k Closed Itemsets in Data S treams", Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering, Vol. 40, Issue 12 Springer Publication, Dec 2015, pp. 3507-3521  Dai Caiyan and Chen Ling, "An algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets with density from data streams", Internal Journal of Computational Science and Engineering, Vol. 12, Issue 2-3, Inderscience Enterprises, 2016, pp. 146-154  Nan Jiang and Le Gruenwald, "CFI-Stream: mining closed frequent itemsets in data streams", in Proc. 12th ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2006, pp. 592-597 7 Ranganath B. N. and M. Narasimha Murthy, "Stream-Close: Fast Mining of Closed Frequent Itemsets in High Speed Data Streams", in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Data Mining Workshops, Dec 2008 8 Bay Vo, Tuong Le, Tzung Pei Hong and Bac Le, "Fast Updated frequentitemset lattice for transaction deletion", International Journal of Data Knowledge Engineering, Vol. 96-97, Elsevier Publication, Mar 2015, pp 78 - 89  Komate Amphawan and Philippe Lenca, "Mining top-k frequent-regular closed patterns", International Journal of Expert Systems with Applications, Vol. 42, Issue 21, Elsevier Publication, Nov 2015, pp. 78827894  Guanglu Zhang, Jingsheng Lei and Xinghui Wu, "Mining frequent closed itemsets over data stream based on Bitvector and digraph", in Proc. 2nd International Conference on Future Computer and Communication, May 2010  Koji Iwanuma, Yoshitaka Yamamoto and Shoshi Fukuda, "An On-Line Approximation Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets Based on Incremental Intersection", in Proc. of 19th Int. Conf. on Extending Database Technoloy, Mar 2016, pp. 704-705  Mining data streams is very complex and challenging as conventional assumptions of static data does not apply. Also data stream mining algorithms can be used on static data directly by reading the static data record by record as stream. But it is not possible to use any algorithm designed for static data mining to mine streaming data directly In this paper, we have performed a detailed analysis of the important techniques used till date to mine CFIs from uncertain continuous data streams and analyzed their advantages and limitations. Also the applicability of these algorithm for parallel and distributed computing environment to mine big streaming data is studied. From this study, few major research gaps have been identified and discussed in detail. In future, new solutions shall be developed to mine Closed Frequent Itemsets from Data Streams for parallel different sources on a big data platform to overcome the drawbacks of the current techniques R EFERENCES  1 Massimo Quadrana, Albert Bifet and Ricard Gavalda, "An efficient closed frequent itemset miner for the MOA stream mining system", International Journal of AI Communications, Vol. 28, No. 1, 2015, pp. 143-158  Guojun Mao, Xialing and Xindong Wu, "A New Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets from Data Streams", in 7th World Congress on Intelligent Control and Automation, Jun 2008 9                         Riddhi Anjankumar Shah, M. Janaki Meena and S.P. Syed Ibrahim Efficient Mining of Top k-Closed Itemset in Real Time", In Proc. of 3rd Int. Symposium on Big Data and Cloud Computing Challenges, Vol. 49 Springer Publication, Feb 2016, pp. 317 - 324  Xin Ye, Feng Wei and Fan Jiang, "An Optimization to CHARM Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets", in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Computer and Information Technology; Ubiquitous Computing and Communications; Dependable, Autonomic and Secure Computing Pervasive Intelligence and Computing \(CIT/IUCC/DASC/PICOM\, Oct 2015 5 Li Zhao, Yongxin Tong, Dan Yu, Shilong Ma and Mengdong Chen Mining compressed frequent itemsets over data stream in sliding windows", in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Intelligent Computing and Intelligent Systems, Nov 2009  547 Show Jane Yen, Cheng Wei Wu, Yue Shi Lee, Vincent S. Tseng and Chaur Heh Hsieh, "A fast algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets over stream sliding window", in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Fuzzy Systems, Jun 2011  2016 2nd International Conference on Contemporary Computing and Informatics ic3i Jianyong Wang, Jiawei Han and Jian Pei, "CLOSET+: searching for the best strategies for mining frequent closed itemsets", in Proc. of the 9th ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. on Knowledge discovery and data mining, Aug 2003, pp. 78-82 4 


114 continuous data stream that contains complex context with unpredictable unbounded volumes. A multi-level pattern mining solution   8 GB of main memory and running Microsoft Windows 7. Each approach was evaluated using a simulated dataset called a Sim which is generated by the open-source OpenMSC real-time emulat   predefined message sequences, correlations and temporal pattern parameters, OpenMSC generates realistic real-time pattern traces obfuscated with a large corpus of random noise events. The dataset consists of a total    205 599  and 12 information event types. Three candidate sequence patterns are  The performance of the NewMoment PrefixSpan, and HTPM algorithms is tested by running them on the test dataset  Results show that all the predefined patterns are found by the NewMoment, PrefixSpan and HTPM algorithms with different pattern forms. The time taken for the algorithms to complete their search given different Min-Sup values is shown in Figs. 9 and 10 The MinSup    Figs. 9 and 10  ferences in the time required for NewMoment  requirements for HTPM are much larger than  than NewMoment. With the decreasing MinSup this difference increases substantially Fig. 9 also shows that for relatively simple streams with a small number of event types and patterns, where streams can be adequately split into smaller transaction sets \(in this case  stream online in a near-real-time manner  C  This paper outlined the challenges that need to be solved to perform pattern mining in a Fig.8 Flowchart of Episode Analyzer Fig.9  Sup 


115 A This work was funded by the Enterprise Ireland Innovation Partnership Programme with   upported by the N ational N atural  Science Foundation of China \(No. 61373131  PAPD and CICAEET funds References   Z. J Fu, X M. Sun, Q Liu, L. Zhou, and J G. Shu 223Achieving Efficient Cloud Search Services Multi-keyword Ranked Search over Encrypted Cloud Data Supporting Parallel Computing,\224 IEICE Transactions on Communications, vol E98-B, no. 1, pp.190-200, 2015   S. D Xie, Y X W ang 223Construction o f T r ee Net work with Limited Delivery Latency in Homogeneous Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 Wireless Personal Communications, 2014, 78\(1 3   P  Gu o  J  W a n g  B L i S Y  L ee  223 A V a r ia b le  Threshold-value Authentication Architecture for Wireless Mesh Networks,\224 Journal of Internet Technology, 2014, 15\(6 4   T H. Ma, J J Zhou, M. L. T ang, Y Tian, A. ALDHELAAN, M. AL-RODHAAN, and S. Y. LEE, \223Social network and tag sources based augmenting collaborative recommender system,\224 IEICE transactions on Information and Systems, vol E98-D, no.4, pp. 902-910, Apr. 2015   B. Gu V  S. Sheng K Y  T ay  W  R omano and S Li, \223Incremental Support Vector Learning for Ordinal Regression,\224 IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, 2014, 26\(7 1403-1416 6   Du b lin Cit y U n iv e r sit y a n d E r ic sso n  E S t r e a m  Project, 2014. http:// www.estream-project.com  quency Counts over Data Streams,\224 In: Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Very Large Databases \(VLDB Endowment 2002 pp. 346-57, 2002   J  H. Chang and W  S Lee 224Finding R ecent Fr equent Itemsets Adaptively over Online Data Streams,\224 In: Proceedings of the ninth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining \(SIGKDD 2003 487-492, 2003 9   H. F Li and H. C hen, \224Mi ni ng Non-D eri v abl e  Frequent Item Sets over Data Stream,\224 Data Knowledge Engineering, vol. 68, no. 5, May 2009, pp. 481-498 10   S. K. T anbeer C. F Ahmed, B. S. Jeong and Y   K. Lee, \224Efficient Single-Pass Frequent Pattern  es, 2008, 179\(5 and architecture was presented to support automatic network management by discovering interesting patterns from Telecom Network Monitoring data. The architecture enables discovery or interesting patterns with data from different domains related to Telecom Network Monitoring. The architecture is composed of five sub-modules: Data Analyzer, Mining Controller, Data Miner, Combiner, and Episode Analyzer. Each sub-module is described in detail along with implementation approach  functions in turn. The approach leverages and combines frequent itemset discovery over data streams, association rule learning, frequent sequential pattern mining, and frequent temporal pattern mining techniques while also making use of distributed processing platforms to achieve high-volume throughput. To test the functionality of the model, three classic pattern mining algorithms, namely, NewMoment PrefixSpan, and HTPM, are implemented Their performances are compared in terms of different parameter settings by executing the algorithms with a simulated streaming dataset Fig.10  


116 ings of Second International Conference on Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery Springer, London, UK, pp. 317-326, 2000 21    S. de Amo, W P. Junior and A. Giacometti, MIL PRIT*: a constraint-based algorithm for mining temporal relational patterns, International Journal of Data Warehousing and Mining, 2008 4\(4 22    S Y. Wu and Y. L. Chen, Discovering hybrid temporal patterns from sequences consisting of point- and interval-based events, Data and Knowledge Engineering, 2009, 68\(11\: 13091330 23    Y L. Chen, S. Y. Wu and Y. C. Wang, etc, Discov ering multi-label temporal patterns in sequence database, Information Sciences, 2011, 181\(3 398-418 24    Ha doop Map/Reduce tutorial, http://hadoop apache.org/docs/r1.2.1/mapred tutorial.html 25    M Zaharia and M. Chowdhury, Spark: cluster computing with working sets in cloud comput ing, In: Proceeding of HotCloud 2010, \(2010 26    C Lucchese, S. Orlando, R. Perego, Fast and memory efficient mining of frequent closed itemsets, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2006, 18\(1    MSCgen-Based Control Plane Trace Emulator for Communication Networks, 2014. http openmsc.blogspot.com Biographies Zhiguo Qu received his PhD in Information Security from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunica tions, China, in 2011. From 2012 to 2014, he worked as a post-doc researcher fellow at Dublin City Univer sity in Ireland. In July 2011, he joined Nanjing Univer sity of Information and Technology in China, where he is currently a lecturer in the College of Computer and Software. His research interests include quantum secure communication, quantum information hiding  hh@126.com    ment: Maintaining Closed Frequent Itemsets over a Stream Sliding Window,\224 In: Proceedings of Data Mining \(ICDM \22204 12    H. F Li, C. C. Ho and S. Y. Lee, \224Incremental Updates of Closed Frequent Itemsets over  Applications, 2009, 36\(2 13    P T. La, B. Le and B. Vo, \224Incrementally Building   2014, 41: 2703-2712 14    S Brin, R. Motwani and C. Silverstein, Beyond  to correlations,\224 In: Proceedings of the 1997 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data \(SIGMOD 1997\, New York, NY, USA, pp. 265-276, 1997 15    R Srikant, R. Agrawal, Mining sequential  improvements, In: Proceedings of the 5th In  Technology, Avignon, France, pp. 3-17, 1996    Dayal, and M.-C. Hsu. Freespan: Frequent pat tern-projected sequential pattern mining, In Proceedings of 2000 International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD00\on, MA, pp. 355-359, 2000      pattern growth, In: Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Data Engineering Heidelberg, Germany, pp. 215-226, 2001 18    M. J Zaki, SPADE: an efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences, Machine Learning 2001, 42\(1 19    S. Y Wu and Y. L. Chen, Mining non-ambiguous temporal patterns for interval-based events IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engi neering, 2007, 19\(6 20    P S. Kam and A. W. C. Fu, Discovering temporal patterns for interval-based events, In: Proceed  


1856 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY VOL 11 NO 8 AUGUST 2016 TABLE V E XPERIMENTAL S ETTINGS B Security Under Data Owners Attacks Attack Via Chosen Random Ingredients In our solutions data owners are not required to exchange any plaintext or ciphertext i.e encryption of their private data In addition due to the use of the underlying homomorphic encryption scheme and secure comparison scheme the exact supports and conﬁdences are concealed from any data owner However there is still a possible attack via chosen random ingredients A data owner may use ERVs random ingredients to tag some transactions and verify whether such a transaction contains a given itemset or not For example the data owner could compute an ERV with a customized random ingredient The random ingredient’s bit length is longer than any other random ingredient’s in the preprocessing stage For each received seemingly frequent itemset the data owner decrypts its ESVR and obtains the ESVR’s random ingredient If the random ingredient matches the pattern of the customized random ingredient’s most signiﬁcant bits it is an indication that the ERV with the customized random ingredient has been used to compute the ESVR Thus the data owner knows the transaction associated with the ERV contains the itemset To prevent such an attack we carefully conﬁgure the bit lengths of random ingredients An example is presented in Table V The random ingredients in  1  2  t are used to mask chosen random ingredients in ERVs Also in the preprocessing stage each data owner must verify c s  c z  c e and that ERVs are generated honestly with random ingredients of the right bit lengths In the last step of preprocessing stage the random ingredients of ERVs are veriﬁed in an aggregated manner By examining the sum of these random ingredients data owners can be assured that any chosen random ingredient will be masked C Security of Underlying Homomorphic Encryption Scheme The security of underlying homomorphic encryption scheme depends on the hardness of solving nonlinear systems In the proposed mining solutions a number of plaintexts and their corresponding ciphertexts i.e c s  c z    i  t  i  1   are disclosed to the cloud Therefore the underlying homomorphic encryption scheme should be secure under known-plaintext attacks In our homomorphic encryption scheme to encrypt a plaintext m i and obtain the corresponding ciphertext c i  we require the use of two secrets q  s and a random ingredient r i  From a known  m i  c i  pair the attacker can get a nonlinear equation of three unknowns q  s  r i  s  q  r i  m i   c i From w known pairs the attacker can generate an underdetermined nonlinear system of w equations and the number of unknowns are w  2 If the attacker can solve this system he can learn the secret key of the encryption scheme Security Can Be Achieved by Increasing Hardness of Solving Above Nonlinear System Solving underdetermined nonlinear systems is NP-hard while solving overdetermined systems can be done in polynomial time The attacker may attack a nonlinear system by guessing the values of some unknowns  i f gues s i ng t h e c orrect v a l u es i s not v e ry hard The attacker can generate many overdetermined systems from the targeted underdetermined nonlinear system by xing some unknowns 3 unknowns for the system above to all possible values These unknowns will be viewed as constants in the generated systems By solving the generated overdetermined systems the attacker nds the solution to the targeted underdetermined nonlinear system To prevent such attacks we can conﬁgure large ranges or bit lengths for q  s  r i to compound the challenges of guessing the correct values An example of the conﬁguration is presented in Table V D Security of Underlying Secure Comparison Scheme The proposed secure comparison scheme is used in our solutions to conceal the exact support values and conﬁdence values from the data owners From the correctness proof in Section IV-C we know that m i  0   q  1  2     m i  1  q       q  1  2 


LI et al  PRIVACY-PRESERVING-OUTSOURCED ASSOCIATION RULE MINING ON VERTICALLY PARTITIONED DATABASES 1857 Fig 4 Running time comparison  t  4and k  12 If  q  1  2 m could be any value in the range  0    Otherwise m couldbeanyvaluein   0   By observing   a data owner knows whether m  0 or not but m s range cannot be deduced As our design goal is to conceal exact supports it is sufﬁcient to conceal m s value in many possible values In other words we do not need a secure comparison scheme to conceal more information VII P ERFORMANCE E VA L UAT I O N In this section we evaluate the computational complexity communication complexity and storage cost of our association rule mining and frequent itemset mining solutions In the evaluation we choose one of s s o l u t i ons and c l a s s i c nonprivacy-preserving algorithms as the baseline The former is chosen because it and our solutions achieve the same privacy level In contrast other solutions achieve lower privacy levels Classic algorithms are chosen as baselines because they are the most efﬁcient known solutions A Computational Complexity 1 Comparing With Classic Algorithms We used the running time to evaluate the computational complexity To demonstrate the feasibility of our solutions we compare our solutions with classic non-privacy-preserving algorithms which are the most efﬁcient known solutions We evaluated our solutions and three classic non-privacypreserving algorithms Apriori Eclat and FP-growth using two datasets retail and pumsb from 26  T h e r e tail d a taset from Tom Brijs contains anonymous retail market basket data in a Belgian retail store while the pumsb dataset contains census data for population and housing The retail and pumsb datasets contain 88,162 and 49,046 transactions respectively To simulate t data owners we vertically partitioned each dataset into t databases randomly Our solutions are implemented in JAVA and we use a JAVA implementation  of A p ri ori  Ecl a t a nd F P gro w t h algorithms in our experiments All implementations are singlethreaded implementations To ensure a fair comparison in all experiments machines playing the roles of cloud or data owner have the same hardware and software settings The settings and the parameters of our solutions are shown in Table V The results are shown in Figs 4 5 and 6 As the running time of association rule mining is only slightly higher than Fig 5 Running time under different data owner count t  k is xed to 16 Fig 6 Running time under different k  t is xed to 2 that of frequent itemset mining only the results of association rule mining are presented We show our solutions running time at the cloud’s end i.e running time of mining and data owner owner side i.e running time of preprocessing and decrypting separately As expected our solutions are not as efﬁcient as the most efﬁcient algorithms  solutions of low privacy levels However they achieve a higher privacy level with an acceptable running time Compared with the fastest algorithm’s running time the cloud’s running time is about one order higher for most cases while data owner’s running time is very low This is the classic trade-off between privacypreserving and efﬁciency From Figs 5 and 6 we also observe that running time changes with increasing values of k and t  The cloud’s running time increases with t as d max increases with t and a larger d max results in larger ciphertext size and more computations The cloud’s running time increases with k for the retail dataset but barely changes for the pumsb dataset The increase in running time for retail dataset is due to the increase in ctitious data However the pumsb dataset is very dense and the supports are already very high without including ctitious data Thus adding more ctitious data hardly changes the number of seemingly frequent itemsets and their supports We can also observe that data owner’s running time decreases 


1858 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY VOL 11 NO 8 AUGUST 2016 TABLE VI E STIMATED R UNNING T IME OF  s S OLUTION when t increases The reason is simple If the same joint database is vertically partitioned to more data owners each data owner’s dataset is smaller Preprocessing a smaller dataset requires less time Data owner’s running time doesn’t increase with k either Such a phenomenon can also be explained using 16  s alg o r ith m f o r ad d i n g ctitio u s tr an sactions Speciﬁcally data owner’s running time is dominated by the time to run this algorithm which is hardly affected by changes in the values of k  In summary increasing t and k usually results in a higher running time at the cloud end without resulting in an increase in data owner’s running time 2 Comparing With the Solution Achieving the Same Privacy Level To the best of our knowledge the only existing privacy-preserving solution that does not leak sensitive information of the raw data is one of s frequent itemset mining solutions hereafter referred to as  s strong solution in this paper This solution cannot be used for association rule mining whilst we have solutions for both association rule mining and frequent itemset mining Similar to our solutions  s s t rong s o l u t i o n u s e s homomorphic encryption However it needs to use asymmetric homomorphic encryption scheme which is computationally expensive Reference  s s t rong s o l u t i o n r equi res a bout n  F encryptions as well as  n  T s   F homomorphic additions and scalar multiplications F is the number of frequent itemsets This solution’s running time is dominated by these expensive operations We evaluate its running time by estimating the required time to undertake the operations  see Table VI To estimate the running time we measure the speeds of two popular asymmetric additive homomorphic encryption schemes i.e Paillier Paillier and ElGamal implemented in Java and we r emark that ElGamal is the scheme suggested by T he s p eeds a re meas ured us i n g a machine of the same speciﬁcations in our evaluations see Table V and so are the datasets and parameters Compared with the result of our solution in Fig 4 the running time of  s s t rong s o l u t i o n i s s e v eral orders of magnitude B Communication Complexity and Storage Cost Similar to most other solutions our solutions require constant communication rounds In the preprocessing stage some keys and parameters are shared among t data owners These keys and parameters can be sent to data owners in parallel In the mining stage all mining results can be sent to data TABLE VII T RANSACTION C OUNT OF J OINT D ATABASE R ETAIL  TABLE VIII T RANSACTION C OUNT OF J OINT D ATABASE P UMSB  owners in a communication round Therefore the number of communication rounds does not grow if t  frequent itemsets or association rules increases The communication trafﬁc and storage cost in our solutions are dominated by the joint database size and the size of all ERVs Let n and n 012 be the transaction count of the joint database with and without ctitious transactions respectively Tables VII and VIII list the joint database size of two datasets under different settings of k and t  The joint database in our solutions contains ctitious transactions while the one in class algorithms does not We can observe from Tables VII and VII that the joint database size in our solutions is a few times larger and the size grows with k and t  The number of ERVs is at most n 012  t  O  n  t   A ciphertext’s size is O   d max   O   t  where  is the security parameter typically 80 Normally d max can be viewed as a small constant d max is not larger than 4 for most settings in the above experiments and the largest d max observed in the above experiments is 6 Let m be the average transaction size Then the communication trafﬁc and and storage cost in our solutions are both O  n  m  n    t  d max   The trafﬁc and cost in classic algorithms are O  n  m   For most reasonable transaction sizes our solutions resulted in an in communication trafﬁc and storage cost only by a few times The storage cost in  s s t rong solution is O  n  m   while the communication trafﬁc is O  T s  t  F  C  where F is the number of frequent itemsets C is the ciphertext size in 13  s str o n g so lu tio n  wh ich i s at least 2048 2048 bits In many settings our solutions trafﬁc is not any higher than the trafﬁc of s s t rong solution VIII R ELATED W ORK A Privacy-Preserving Association Rule Mining and Frequent Itemset Mining on Vertically Partitioned Databases In t h e  rs t w ork t o i dent i f y a nd addres s p ri v a c y i s s u es in vertically partitioned databases a secure scalar product protocol is presented and used to build a privacy-preserving frequent itemset mining solution Association rules can then be found given frequent itemsets and their supports Since 


LI et al  PRIVACY-PRESERVING-OUTSOURCED ASSOCIATION RULE MINING ON VERTICALLY PARTITIONED DATABASES 1859 the publication of this seminal work a number of privacypreserving association rule mining or frequent itemset mining solutions have been published in the literature see 11   1 3   28]–[31 The most relevant work is the privacy-preserving association rule mining solution presented in I n t hi s s ol ut i on a d at a owner known as the master is responsible for the mining The other data owners known as slaves insert ctitious transactions to their respectiv e datasets and send the datasets to the master Each data owner will also send his set of real transactions IDs to a semi-trusted third-party server The third-party server is assumed not to be colluding with any data owner but it cannot be trusted to hold the raw data The master generates association rule candidates from the joint database containing ctitious data For each rule candidate X  Y  the master sends the ID lists of the transactions containing X  Y and the transactions containing X to the third-party server The server veriﬁes if the rule is qualiﬁed or not Similar to our solutions a semi-trusted third-party is utilized for the mining However unlike our solutions a data owner i.e the master does the majority of the computational work Therefore we can hardly say that such a solution is an outsourced mining solution Though ctitious data are added in datasets to lower data usability the master is able to learn signiﬁcant information about other data owners raw data from the received datasets In cont rast our solutions do not leak such information as we do not rely on one particular data owner to undertake the computations and we also encrypt the datasets All existing solutions with the exception of  d o not utilize a third-party server to server to compute the mining result Some solutions  13 us e a s y mmet r i c encryption to compute the supports of itemsets while other solutions 28]–[30 us e a s ecure s cal ar product p rot o col  a s et intersection cardinality protocol or a secret sharing scheme to perform these computations A majority of these solutions expose exact supports to all data owners resulting in the leakage of information about the data owners raw data  The only exception is one of s s o l u t i ons  I n  13 t here are two privacy-preserving solutions for frequent itemset mining The rst solution exposes exact supports which is not desirable The second solution does not expose exact supports However association rules cannot be mined based on the result of second solution because conﬁdences cannot be computed without the exact supports In addition this solution’s method cannot be used to mine association rules because securely computing conﬁdence is more complicated than computing support In comparison with this solution our frequent itemset mining solution’s computational complexity is signiﬁcantly lower Our solutions do not expose exact supports or conﬁdences to data owners Different from existing solutions based on homomorphic encryption we use symmetric homomorphic encryption instead of asymmetric homomorphic encryption and the manner in which we use homomorphic encryption also differs from existing solutions In our approach we use homomorphic encryption to create ERVs and build our secure outsourced comparison scheme B Privacy-Preserving Outsour ced Association Rule Mining and Frequent Itemset Mining Privacy-preserving outsourced frequent itemset mining and association rule mining have been studied in the setting of a single data owner  19]–[21 I n e xi s t i n g s ol ut i ons  the data owner outsources thei r data and the mining task to the cloud but at the same time wish to keep the raw data secret from the cloud Generally data items in the database are encrypted using a substitution cipher prior to outsourcing Reference  propos ed a s ol ut i o n t o c ount er frequency analysis attack on substitution cipher However a later work demons t r at ed t h at 19 s s o l u t i o n i s not s ecure Giannotti et al proposed a solution based on k anonymity frequency   21 T o c ount er frequenc y a nal y s i s a t t ack the data owner inserts ctitious transactions in the encrypted database to conceal the item frequency After inserting the ctitious transactions any item in the encrypted database will share the same frequency with at least k  1 other items The data owner sends the encrypted database of both the real and ctitious transactions to the cloud The cloud runs a classic frequent itemset mining algorithm and returns the result frequent itemsets and their supports to the data owner The data owner revises these itemsets supports by subtracting them with these itemsets corresponding occurrence counts in the ctitious transactions respectively Finally the data owner decrypts the received itemsets with the revised supports higher than the frequency threshold an d generates association rules based on found frequent itemsets Our solutions use their techniques to conceal the raw data from the cloud and mitigate frequency analysis attack that can be undertaken by the cloud Using these techniques alone however is not sufﬁcient to protect data privacy in the vertically partitioned database setting To cancel out ctitious transactions both 21 an d  1 6  require the data owner to count itemset occurrences in ctitious transactions In the vertically partitioned database setting data owners are unable to perform such calculation using the techniques described in and  16 I n our s o l u t i ons  the cloud rather than the data owners cancels out ctitious transactions in a privacy-preserving manner and the underlying techniques are our homomorphic encryption secure comparison and ciphertext tag schemes Another recent work  propos ed a p ri v a c y pres e rving outsourced association rule mining solution based on predicate encryption This solution is resilient to chosen-plaintext attacks on encrypted items but it is vulnerable to frequency analysis attacks Applying this solution to vertically partitioned databases will also result in the leakage of the exact supports to data owners In this paper our adversary model is different We assume the cloud has knowledge of the item frequencies instead of chosen plaintext-ciphertext pairs and our solutions are resilient to frequency analysis attacks C Other Related Work Other than the settings of vertically partitioned databases and cloud/third-party-aided mining privacy-preserving frequent itemset mining and association rule mining have 


1860 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY VOL 11 NO 8 AUGUST 2016 been studied in the settings of horizontally partitioned databases   33]–[35 d at a publ i s hi ng 36 and d i f ferent i a l privacy  T hes e s e t t i ngs are b e yond t h e s cope of t h i s paper  IX C ONCLUDING R EMARKS In this paper we proposed a privacy-preserving outsourced frequent itemset mining solution for vertically partitioned databases This allows the data owners to outsource mining task on their joint data in a privacy-preserving manner privacypreserving manner Based on this solution we built a privacypreserving outsourced association rule partitioned databases Our solutions protect data owner’s raw data from other data owners and the cloud Our solutions also ensure the privacy of the mining results from the cloud Compared with most existing solutions our solutions leak less information about the data owners raw data Our evaluation has also demonstrated that our solutions are very efﬁci ent therefore our solutions are suitable to be used by data owners wishing to outsource their databases to the cloud but require a high level of privacy without compromising on performance To realize our solutions an efﬁcient homomorphic encryption scheme and a secure outsourced comparison scheme were presented in this paper Both schemes have potential usage in other secure computation applications such as secure data aggregation beyond the data mining solutions described in this paper Demonstrating the u tility of the p roposed homomorphic encryption scheme and outsourced comparison scheme in other settings will be the focus of future research A PPENDIX I NSERTING F ICTITIOUS T RANSACTIONS  s A LGORITHM  An algorithm to counter frequency analysis attacks on the outsourced database encrypted with a substitution cipher was proposed in F or the purpos e o f c oncealing t he item frequency this algorithm inserts ctitious transactions in the database to be oursourced The goal is to ensure that each item share the same frequency with at least k  1 items The algorithm is summarized as follows also see  Firstly the data owner scans the database to count each individual item’s support  Secondly the data owner groups items considering the supports and co-occurrence of items The data owner sorts items in decreasing order of support Starting from the rst of the sorted item list i.e the item with the highest support the data owner assigns every k adjacent items to a new created group If there are less than k unassigned items remaining these items will be assigned to the last created group The data owner swaps items from different groups to ensure that all items in the same group do not occur together in the same transaction  Thirdly for each item in each group the data owner calculates the difference between the item’s support and the highest support in the group The difference is deﬁned as the noise of the item  Fourthly to achieve k anonymity frequency the data owner generates ctitious transactions based on the result of the third step The number of an item’s occurrences in the ctitious transactions is equal to its noise calculated in the third step After inserting the ctitious transactions all items in the same group share the same support A CKNOWLEDGMENT The authors would like to thank Quach Vinh Thanh the Associate Editor and the three anonymous reviewers for providing constructive and gen erous feedback Despite their invaluable assistance any erro rs remaining in this paper are solely attributed to the authors R EFERENCES  T  B rijs  G  S winnen K V a nhoof a nd G W e ts   Us ing a s s o ciation r ules for product assortment decisions A case study in Proc SIGKDD  1999 pp 254–260  S  E  B ros s e tte A  P  S prague J  M  H ardin K B W a ites  W  T  J ones  and S A Moser Association rules and data mining in hospital infection control and public health surveillance J Amer Med Inform Assoc  vol 5 no 4 pp 373–381 1998 3 B  M obas h er  H  D ai T  L uo and M  N akaga w a E f f ecti v e p er s onalization based on association rule discovery from Web usage data in Proc WIDM  2001 pp 9–15  C  C reighton and S  H anas h Mining g ene e xpres s i on databas e s f or association rules Bioinformatics  vol 19 no 1 pp 79–86 2003 5 X  Y in and J  H an  CP A R  C las s i  cation b as ed on pr edicti v e as s o ciation rules in Proc SIAM SDM  2003 pp 1–5 6 R  A gr a w al and R  S r i kant  F a s t algor ithm s f o r m ining a s s o ciation rules in Proc VLDB  1994 pp 1–13 7 M  J  Z aki S calable algor ithm s f o r a s s o ciation m ining  IEEE Trans Knowl Data Eng  vol 12 no 3 pp 372–390 May/Jun 2000  J  H an J  P ei a nd Y  Y i n Minin g frequent patterns without candidate generation in Proc ACM SIGMOD  pp 1–12 2000 9 J  V aidya and C  C lif ton P r i v a c y pr es er ving as s o ciation r ule m ining i n vertically partitioned data in Proc SIGKDD  2002 pp 639–644  M Kantarcioglu a nd C Clifton Pri vacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data IEEE Trans Knowl Data Eng  vol 16 no 9 pp 1026–1037 Sep 2004  B Rozenber g and E  G udes   A s s o ciation r ules m i ning in v e rtically partitioned databases Data Knowl Eng  vol 59 no 2 pp 378–396 2006  J  Z h an S  M atwin and L  C hang Pri v a c y pres e rving c ollaborati v e association rule mining in Proc DBSEC  2005 pp 153–165  S Z hong Pri v a c y pres e rving a lgorithm s for d is trib uted m i ning of frequent itemsets Inf Sci  vol 177 no 2 pp 490–503 2007  P  P a illier  P ublick e y cr yptos ys tem s bas e d o n c om pos ite de gr ee r e s i duosity classes in Proc EUROCRYPT  1999 pp 223–238  R Cram er  R  G ennaro a nd B Schoenm ak ers   A s ecure and optim ally efﬁcient multi-authority election scheme Eur Trans Telecommun  vol 8 no 5 pp 481–490 1997  F  G i annotti L  V  S  L a ks hm anan A  M onr eale D  P e dr es chi and H Wang Privacy-preserving mining of association rules from outsourced transaction databases IEEE Syst J  vol 7 no 3 pp 385–395 Sep 2013  B Dong R L i u and H  W ang Res ult i nte g rity v e riﬁcation o f outsourced frequent itemset mining in Proc 27th Annu IFIP WG Conf Data Appl Secur Privacy DBSec  Newark NJ USA Jul 2013 pp 258–265 O A v a ilable http://dx doi o r g 10 1007/978-3-64 239256-6_17  R L i u a nd H W a ng Res ult i nte g rity v e riﬁcation o f outs ourced pri v ac ypreserving frequent itemset mining in Proc SIAM Int Conf Data Mining  Vancouver BC Canada Apr./May 2015 pp 244–252 Available http://dx.doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611974010.28  W  K W ong D W  Cheung E  Hung B Kao and N  M am oulis  Security in outsourcing of association rule mining in Proc VLDB  2007 pp 111–122  I  M o llo y  N  L i  a nd T  L i   O n the  in s ecur ity and  im  p r acticality of outsourcing precise association rule mining in Proc ICDM  Dec 2009 pp 872–877  F  G i annotti L  V  S  L a ks hm anan A  M onr eale D  P e dr es chi and W Wang Privacy-preserving data mining from outsourced databases in Proc CPDP  2011 pp 411–426 


LI et al  PRIVACY-PRESERVING-OUTSOURCED ASSOCIATION RULE MINING ON VERTICALLY PARTITIONED DATABASES 1861 22 FIPS Publication 180-1 Secure Hash Standard  Nat Inst Standards Technol Gaithersburg MD USA 1995 23 FIPS Publication 180-2 Secure Hash Standard  Nat Inst Standards Technol Gaithersburg MD USA 2002  T  E l Gam a l  A public k e y c ryptos ystem and a signature scheme based on discrete logarithms IEEE Trans Inf Theory  vol 31 no 4 pp 469–472 Jul 1985 O A v a ilable http://dx doi o r g 10 1109 TIT.1985.1057074  N  Cour tois  A  K lim o v  J  P atar in a nd A  S h am ir   E f  c ient algor ithm s for solving overdeﬁned systems of multivariate polynomial equations in Proc EUROCRYPT  2000 pp 392–407  P  F ournier V iger  Real-life Datasets in SPMF Format  accessed on Apr 6 2016 O A v a ilable http://w w w  philippe-fournier viger.com/spmf/index.php?link=datasets.php  P  F ournier V iger  A  G om ariz T  G ueniche A Soltani C  W  W u and V S Tseng SPMF A Java opensource pattern mining library J Mach.Learn.Res  vol 15 no 1 pp 3389–3393 2014  J  V a idya and C  C lif ton S ecur e s e t i nter s ection car dinality w ith application to association rule mining J Comput Secur  vol 13 no 4 pp 593–622 2005  X Ge L  Y an J  Z hu and W  S hi  Pri v ac y-pres erving dis t rib u ted association rule mining based on the secret sharing technique in Proc SEDM  Jun 2010 pp 345–350  R K h ar at M  K um bhar  and P  B ham r e E f  cient p r i v a c y pr es er ving distributed association rule mining protocol based on random number in Intelligent Computing Networking and Informatics  Raipur Chhattisgarh India Springer 2014 pp 827–836  C Dong and L  C hen  A f a s t s ecure dot product p rotocol with application to privacy preserving association rule mining in Proc 18th Paciﬁc-Asia Conf Adv Knowl Discovery Data Mining PAKDD  Tainan Taiwan May 2014 pp 606–617 Available http://dx.doi.o rg/10.1007/978-3-319-06608-0_50  J  L a i Y  L i  R  H  D eng J  W e ng C Guan a nd Q Y a n T o w ards semantically secure outsourcing of association rule mining on categorical data Inf Sci  vol 267 pp 267–286 May 2014  T  F ukas a w a  J  W ang T  T a kata a nd M  M i yazaki  A n e f f ecti v e distributed privacy-preserving data mining algorithm in Proc 5th Int Conf IDEAL  2004 pp 320–325  C Su and K  S akurai  A d is trib ut ed privacy-preserving association rules mining scheme using frequent-pattern tree in Proc ADMA  2008 pp 170–181  M  G  K a os ar  R  P aulet and X  Y i S ecur e tw opar t y a s s o ciation r ule mining in Proc ACSW-AISC  2011 pp 15–22  J  L  L in and J  Y  C L i u Pri v a c y pres erving item s et m i ning through fake transactions in Proc ACM Symp Appl Comput SAC  Seoul South Korea Mar 2007 pp 375–379 A v a ilable http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1244002.1244092  B N K e s h a v am urthy  A M Khan a nd D T o s hniw a l Pri v a c y preserving association rule mining over distributed databases using genetic algorithm Neural Comput Appl  vol 22 no 1 pp 351–364 2013 Lichun Li received the bachelor’s degree in information engineering from the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in 2002 the master’s degree in communication and information systems from the China Academy of Telecommunication Technology in 2006 and the Ph.D degree in computer science from the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in 2009 He is currently a Postdoctoral Research Fellow with the INFINITUS Laboratory School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Nanyang Technological University Singapore His research interests include privacy and security in cloud and big data Rongxing Lu S’09–M’11–SM’15 received the Ph.D degree in computer science from Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai China in 2006 and the Ph.D degree in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Waterloo Waterloo ON Canada in 2012 From 2012 to 2013 he was a Postdoctoral Fellow with the University of Waterloo Since 2013 he has been an Assistant Professor with the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Nanyang Technological University Singapore His research interests include computer network security mobile and wireless communication security and applied cryptography He was a recipient of the Ca nada Governor General Gold Metal Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo SM’15 received the Ph.D degree in information security from the Queensland University of Technology Australia in 2006 He is currently a Cloud Technology Endowed Associate Professor with the University of Texas at San Antonio an Associate Professor with the University of South Australia and a Guest Professor with the China University of Geosciences He was named one of 10 Emerging Leaders in the Innovation category of The Weekend Australian Magazine Microsoft’s Next 100 series in 2009 and is a recipient of the ESORICS 2015 Best Research Paper Award the 2015 Winning Team of Germany’s University of Erlangen-Nuremberg Digital Forensics Research Challenge the 2014 Australia New Zealand Policing Advisory Agency’s Highly Commende d Award the 2010 Australian Capital Territory Pearcey Award the Fulbright Scholarship in 2009 the 2008 Australia Day Achievement Medallion and the British Computer Society’s Wilkes Award Anwitaman Datta is an Associate Professor with the School of Computer Science and Engineering NTU Singapore He lead s the Self and Algorithmic aspects of Networked Distributed Systems Research Group at NTU Jun Shao received the Ph.D degree from Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai China in 2008 He was a Postdoctoral Fellow with the School of Information Sciences and Technology Pennsylvania State University State College PA USA from 2008 to 2010 He is currently a Full Professor with the Department of Information Security Zhejiang Gongshang University Hangzhou China His research interests include network security and applied cryptography 


