Consumer e-Satisfaction and Site Stickiness An Empirical Investigation in the Context of Online Hotel Reservations 1    Elena Karahanna MIS Department, Terry College of Business University of Georgia ekarah@terry.uga.edu  Larry Seligman InterContinental Hotels Group Atlanta, Georgia Larry.Seligman@ihg.com   Greta L. Polites School of Management 
Bucknell University greta.polites@bucknell.edu  Clay K. Williams CMIS Department, School of Business Southern Illinois University Edwardsville cwillaa@siue.edu   Abstract  Research on website satisfaction \(also known as esatisfaction\ has been approached from many different perspectives. However, many studies lack a solid overarching theory base, and rely heavily on student data. As a consequence, there is a lack of clarity as to the antecedents and consequences of e-satisfaction Using a survey of 4,838 visitors to a large hotel 
chain s website, we test a comprehensive model of esatisfaction grounded in Bagozzi s 1992 framework of the self-regulation of attitudes, intentions, and behavior. Results indicate that appraisals of website quality and usefulness, as well as product value appraisals, lead to overall satisfaction with a site which in turn leads to site stickiness. These website and product appraisals, as well as an appraisal of trust in the vendor, also have a direct impact on site stickiness unmediated by satisfaction   1. Introduction 
1    Customer satisfaction in the online environment also called e-satisfaction [see is an i m portan t  business concern, due to low reported conversion rates i.e., the percentage of website visitors that actually purchase from a website\Although there is a plethora of studies on e-satisfaction, many research models are based on empirics, rather than a solid theory base. In addition, extant research is not consistent in its definition and operationalization of e-satisfaction, or the relationships between e-satisfaction and its 
antecedents and consequences   1  Authors are listed alphabetically   Part of the reason for the confusion in understanding e-satisfaction and its nomological net is the fact that there are many different perspectives from which one can study satisfaction. A consumer may be dis\satisfied with characteristics of a website itself, the vendor, product\(s\ervice\(s\ associated with that website, the electronic channel as a whole, a single 
transaction conducted through the site, or the aggregation of all past transactions that have taken place. While it is the characteristics of the site itself that are perhaps of most concern to IS researchers, we cannot ignore these other elements altogether inasmuch as consumers attitudes and behaviors in regard to the site may be influenced by them, and proper site design may be able to alleviate the associated concerns  Given the shortcomings and confusion in the extant literature on e-satisfaction, it is critical to 
reexamine the theoretical foundations of satisfaction studies in the marketing literature, as well as related concepts in the IS literature, to arrive at a theoretically grounded model of the relationships between esatisfaction and its key antecedents as well as consequences. We present and test a model of esatisfaction that is based on Bagozzi s framework of the self-regulation of attitudes, intentions, and behavior  h ich  h a s prev i ous l y b e en v a lidated in s e v e ral  studies on satisfaction outside the e-commerce and IS 
realms [e.g Ou r s p ecif ic f o c u s i n u s ing this  framework is to determine what factors impact esatisfaction, and how e-satisfaction can in turn impact consumer loyalty and intentions to return to the site i.e., site stickiness  Our paper proceeds as follows. First we review the literature and present a conceptual model of esatisfaction, its antecedents, and its consequences. Next Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 we present and theoretically justify our research model We then describe our research methodology and results and end with a discussion of implications for practice and future research  2. Theory and conceptual model   While many different theoretical frameworks have been used for studying various aspects of e-satisfaction e.g., the technology acceptance m s action cost economics m odel s of th e decis i o n  m a king process pectation discon f i r m ation t h eor y 10 motivators versus hygiene factors and asymmetry [11 12 th ere is still co n f u s io n an d in co n s iste n c y a s to  how the various pieces fit together  We propose Bagozzi s framework of the selfregulation of attitudes, intentions, and beha  an appropriate overarching theoretical framework for understanding what leads to e-satisfaction, as well as how e-satisfaction leads to site stickiness. The crux of this framework is its argument that popular behavioral models \(e.g., TRA, TPB, and the theory of trying\ fail to answer the question of when and under what conditions o attitudes actuate intentions It is possible for an individual to have a favorable attitude toward a given behavior \(such as using a particular website\t still not form intentions to return \(thus preventing site stickiness One can also negatively evaluate a website usage experience, yet still plan to return. In order to form intentions to return to a site, the consumer must first have the desire to do so. Thus attitudes may trigger a desire, which will lead to intentions to perform a given behavior. Bagozzi proposed that individuals will appraise a situation as to how it applies to their well-being, particularly as to whether it will allow them to achieve important goals Based on this appraisal, individuals will experience an emotional reaction, which in turn will lead to responses to cope with these emotions  The basis for this appraisal emotional response coping process is an outcome-desire unit defined as a particular class of appraisals with personal significance for the individual 3, p.1 Ou tco m es are events, such as use of a website, that occur in the past or that can occur in the future. Desire involves wanting to approach or avoid a given situation. If an encounter in the past or present is unpleasant, or does not lead to goal achievement, negative emotions \(e.g dissatisfaction, distress, disappointment\will result The individual will then form intentions designed to cope with the result of this outcome-desire conflict  in order to change or avoid the negative consequences in the future. However, if a given encounter is pleasant leading to goal achievement, the individual will experience satisfaction or other positive forms of affect, and form intentions designed to maintain or increase these positive experiences in the futu  When emotional reactions arise from use of a website such intentions might be manifested through loyalty to the site and return intentions \(what we collectively term site stickiness gure 1 graphically depicts this process    Figure 1. Conceptual model adapted from Bagozzi, 1992  3. Research model   In the IS literature, e-satisfaction is most often viewed from the perspective of one s experiences with features of the website itself, particularly those related to information and system quality [e.g., 10, 13, 14, 15  However, other studies have examined customer satisfaction with the e-vendor or provider [e.g  satisfaction with the overall ordering / fulfillment process [e.g., 18 an d ev en s a tis f a ctio n  w i t h th e  electronic channel in relation to conducting the same activities through a different channel [e.g h ese latter perspectives all tap into the view that an ecommerce website is not just an information system but also an interface with a ven T h u s i n  predicting customer e-satisfaction and site stickiness vendor-related factors such as trust and product-related factors such as price and value, may become more salient  Thus, our study includes not only the systemrelated factors of information quality, system quality and perceived usefulness \(PU\t also the vendorrelated factor of trust and the product-related factor of value. The relationships across these constructs and esatisfaction and site stickiness are informed by the organizing conceptual framework provided by Bagozzi. Figure 2 presents our research model, and maps it to Bagozzi s model  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


   Figure 2. Research model  3.1. Antecedents of e-satisfaction  3.1.1. Information and system quality Quality in the marketing literature has been defined as the consumer s judgment about a product s overall excellence or superiority  d as  fitness for use, given the needs of the consumer 20, p.311  review of the literature on IS and e-satisfaction reveals some confusion concerning the exact nature of the relationship between quality and satisfaction.  There are three primary conceptualizations of this relationship. First, quality and/or its most commonly recognized dimensions \(information, system, and service quality\ have been conceptualized as antecedents to satisfaction in both popular IS success models [e.g d eco m m e rce stu d ies [2, 8 15, 24 d as pects of qu alit y  h a v e been operationalized as dimensions of satisfaction itself e.g., 13 Fin all y  s a t i s f actio n is occas ion a ll y  decomposed to address satisfaction with information quality, satisfaction with system quality, and/or satisfaction with service quality [e.g T h ese  various dimensions of satisfaction may or may not then be used as antecedents of an overall satisfaction measure   Despite this widespread confusion elsewhere in the literature, Oliv u e s th at q u alit y an d  satisfaction can be clearly differentiated based on the following characteristics   Quality perceptions do not require direct exposure by the consumer; satisfaction perceptions do   Satisfaction perceptions are more comprehensive in that they may take into account attributes of a product or service besides those related to quality   Quality is based on ideals or notions of excellence whereas satisfaction is based on one s predictions norms, or needs   Quality is primarily cognitive, whereas satisfaction is both cognitive and affective   Quality has a long-term focus, whereas satisfaction is primarily short-term in nature  We follow both Oliver and the IS success models cited above in viewing quality and satisfaction as distinct in definition, focus, and measurement. We further focus our attention on information and system quality. Web information quality has been defined as the customers perception of the quality of information presented on a Web site whereas web system quality is defined as the customers perception of a Web site s performance in information retrieval and delivery 10, p.29 e paratin g i n f o r m ation a n d  system quality features in this manner makes even more sense in an e-commerce environment, due to the feasibility of separating product information content from the content delivery mechanism   Perceptions of information and system quality are critical in e-commerce, because consumers are not able to physically examine the items that they are considering for purchase. Thus the content provided on the website, and the site s design elements, become the primary sources by which consumers can judge attractiveness of the product, as well as vendor attributes T h e depth  bre adth an d pres e n t atio n of information are all important in helping consumers to fully evaluate a product [27 d th i s i n creas e d  ability to make such evaluations will lead to increased satisfaction with the website as a tool for making purchase decisions. Ease of use and navigability of the website \(i.e., system quality\low for a smoother problem-free interaction with the website leading to higher levels of satisfaction [29   T h u s  w e p o s it t h e  following  H1 Perceived informatio n quality will have a positive impact on e-satisfaction  H2 Perceived system quality will have a positive impact on e- satisfaction  3.1.2. Perceived usefulness Seddon s model of IS success [s clu des perceiv ed u s e f u l n e ss PU\ an important antecedent to user satisfaction The inclusion of PU as a direct antecedent to satisfaction in an e-commerce context is also supported by the marketing literature on quality. Oliver explicitly identifies usefulness as one form of quality, defining it as the ability of the product or service to serve the consumer s needs 26, p.1   In line with Bagozzi, Oliver [26, p.18 t ates th at  quality exists prior to and subsequent to consumption as an enduring signal of product or service excellence  whereas satisfaction is a response to this consumption Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 Thus perceptions of website usefulness are viewed as an antecedent to e-satisfaction in that a website that is perceived as more useful in fulfilling the needs of the consumer will lead to higher satisfaction. We therefore posit the following  H3 Perceived usefulness of a website will have a positive impact on e-satisfaction  3.1.3. Value Since websites are often used for the purpose of purchasing a specific product, productrelated factors become salient in determining a consumer s satisfaction with a website. The primary product attribute studied in the IS literature on ecommerce is price savings, or perceived product value e.g., 8, 28 e is tied to th e con cept of qu al it y  i.e  value is quality received at a particular price or outlay 26, p.16  According to Chiou, perceived value is a consumer s overall assessment of the utility of a product or service based on perceptions of what is received and what is given. It is a tradeoff between received benefit and cost 16, p.68   Given the link between quality and satisfaction already enumerated in the previous section, we can further posit a relationship between perceived value and satisfaction. This relationship has also been supported empirically [see 11, 16 u rth e r m ore marketing studies [e.g a v e  f oun d e m pirica l  evidence that satisfaction mediates the relationship between value and loyalty, the latter of which is a component of stickiness. Thus we posit the following  H4 Perceived value will have a positive impact on e-satisfaction  3.1.4. Trust A website is not only a form of information technology, but also an interface with an even T h u s  v e n dorrelated f actors  m a y pla y a n  important role in addition to system-related factors in consumer decisions to return to a website, as well as to make future purchases from it. One of the key vendorrelated factors that has been studied in the IS literature to date is trust [e.g., 6, 31, 32 T r u s t i m plie s a belie f that the e-vendor will fulfill its commitments in a dependable, competent manne d th u s  represents part of the individual s appraisal process in Bagozzi s r a m e w or k    The relationship between trust and satisfaction has been conceptualized in a number of different and sometimes contradictory ways [s How e v e r  studies based on social exchange theory indicate that a consumer s trust evaluation prior to an exchange episode \(such as making a purchase on a website\ will directly influence their postpurchase satisfaction Taking this framework a step further, Chiou [16 p.688 u e s t h at accumulated trust perceptions will affect accumulated overall satisfaction Trust enables the consumer to engage in various transactions without worrying about vendor opportunism and thus leads to higher satisfaction. A number of other studies provide empirical support of the relationship between trust and satisfaction [e.g., 29, 35, 36   T hus w e p o s i t    H5 Trust will have a positive impact on esatisfaction  3.2. Antecedents of site stickiness   At least three different conceptualizations or aspects of site stickiness are found in the literature First sticky sites lead visitors to linger on the site, by encouraging exploratory behavior and a positive subjective experience 37, p.406 ee also 38, 39  Second, they motivate users to revisit the site in the future [37, 39 creating e-loy a lt y to w a rds t h e site  Finally, these intentions to return may result in increased purchases down the road [4 W e f o cu s on  the second conceptualization of stickiness here, i.e measuring consumers intentions to return to the site in the future and e-loyalty. In the sections below, we discuss the antecedents of site stickiness in our model  3.2.1. E-Satisfaction There is disagreement in the literature regarding the nature of the relationship between satisfaction and site stickiness. The most common view is that higher levels of satisfaction lead to greater loyalty, which in turn leads to more frequent site visits, increased purchasing, and greater spending  th e ot h e r h a n d  w h e n cus t o m er s are n o t satisfied, they will be more likely to explore other alternatives th e con t e x t of Bag o zzi s framework satisfaction with a website will lead to the formation of intentions to maintain or increase this satisfaction in the future, through returned visits. There is much empirical support for positive relationships between satisfaction and e-loyalty, repurchase intentions, and continuance intention in the e-commerce context [see 1, 30, 34, 41, 42 T h u s  w e pos i t    H6 E-satisfaction will have a positive impact on site stickiness  The positive relationship between satisfaction and aspects of site stickiness such as loyalty and repurchase intentions has long been taken for granted in the marketing literature. However, Oliv a s arg u e d for the view that satisfaction is not enough in other words, while loyal customers tend to be satisfied satisfied customers are not necessarily loyal. Chiou 16 h a s also p o i n t ed o u t t h a t satis f a ctio n a n d lo y a lt y  can operate independently from each other, in that temporary reversals in satisfaction may not influence long-term loyalty intention p.686\ In other words over time, the two constructs may become so completely disconnected that dissatisfaction no longer Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 impacts loyalty [s  f act, s atis f actio n can be viewed as either a temporary state based on a single experience, or as a repeatedly experienced state Loyalty, on the other hand, is a more enduring, attained state that the consumer is likely to defend   These arguments suggest that e-satisfaction may not fully mediate the relationship between site stickiness and the other independent variables in our model. In fact, though satisfaction may be necessary for the formation of loyalty, it becomes less important as other mechanisms deve u ch  m ech a n i s m s  include perceptions of product superiority w h ic h in the context of a website would include the perceived usefulness of the website as well as the quality of the site and of the information provided  These results and arguments also suggest that research should shift its focus away from satisfaction as the ultimate dependent variable, and toward dependent variables such as loyalty and repurchase intent, that may contribute more to the company s bottom line. Thus we now examine the direct impact of the other constructs in our model on stickiness, beyond their impact through e-satisfaction  3.2.2. Information and system quality We have already discussed how perceptions of information and system quality may impact a customer s satisfaction with a website. However, we also expect quality to directly impact site stickiness, independently of satisfaction. Perceptions of information and system quality may involve deliberate cost-benefit analyses implying that quality appraisals may lead to cognitive loyalty in the absence of high satisfaction with other aspects of the customer-website experien  Particularly in viewing site stickiness as an intention to revisit a website \(and not necessarily to purchase from it\we can argue that if a site provides high quality, indepth information and is easy to use and navigate, the consumer may return to it to get information even when not intending to make a purchase from the particular website. Once they have returned to the site however, the chances of making a purchase may also likely increase. Therefore we posit  H7 Perceived informatio n quality will have a positive impact on site stickiness  H8 Perceived system quality will have a positive impact on site stickiness  3.2.3. Perceived usefulness While not explicitly incorporating satisfaction in their models, TAM-based studies of online purchasing behavi a v e  consistently found PU to have a significant direct influence on purchasing intentions. We therefore expect PU to have a direct influence on site stickiness over and above its influence through e-satisfaction. For example, a consumer may not be satisfied with features of a website s system quality \(e.g., its layout and navigational features, or speed of loading pages\, yet still find it useful to some degree for making reservations \(e.g., comparing hotels and room options and thus intend to continue using it. This is particularly true if there is no good alternative to using the site  Further support for the argument that PU may influence intentions to revisit a website regardless of the level of user satisfaction is found in the Technology Acceptance Model \(TAM w h ere t w o paths are  posited between PU and behavioral intention. The first is an indirect path through attitude, while the second is a direct path. Davis argued that in an organizational setting where users are focused on task performance positive affect may not be activated and decisions concerning use of a particular system may be based primarily on a cognitive assessment of how the system helps to improve performance. In other words, an individual may continue to use a system because of its task-related advantages, regardless of how the user actually feels about the system itself. The same may be true in an e-commerce setting where the user is primarily focused on the task of obtaining information or making a purchase. Thus we posit  H9 Perceived usefulness will have a positive impact on site stickiness  3.2.4. Value Many marketing studies support the view that delivering superior value will increase customer loyalty and purchase intentions [e.g., 30, 47, 48 T h u s  perceived value may have a direct influence on site stickiness, aside from its effect through satisfaction. In fact, Oliv a s argu ed th at, s a t i s f action a s ide  one s loyalty may be weakened if a product is not uniquely desirable or superior in some way. This implies that perceptions of product value can positively influence site stickiness, even if the consumer is not satisfied with other aspects of the website or customer experience. Thus we posit  H10 Perceived value will have a positive impact on site stickiness  3.2.5. Trust In a similar manner, trust in the e-vendor which has been shown to be a significant antecedent of online purchasing behavior and site usage intentions  can i n f l u e n ce site  stickin e s s irrespectiv e of satisfaction. If a consumer does not trust the e-vendor then repeat visits will not be likely even if the consumer is satisfied with other aspects of the website Similarly, if the consumer trusts the vendor, they may return to the website even in the absence of satisfaction with other aspects of the relationship, such as website features. Therefore we posit  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


  H11 Trust will have a positive impact on site stickiness  4. Methodology and results  4.1. Research sample   The data for testing our research model were collected via a web-based survey administered to a random sample of visitors to the websites of InterContinental Hotels Group \(IHG\n May 2003 IHG is the largest hotel company in the world in terms of number of rooms, and has more than 4000 hotels in more than 100 countries. The company has seven hotel brands and the industry's first and largest customer loyalty program. Individuals can make online reservations and gather information via the company's website, the loyalty program website, or the websites of any of the brands. 4,838 website visitors from the United States completed the questionnaire  44.5% of respondents were female and fewer than 1% of were under 18 years old with age distribution as follows: 4.2% between 18 and 24 years old; 21.4 between 25 and 34; 31.1% between 35 and 44; 29 between 45 and 54; and 13.9% over 55 years old  4.2. Operationalization of constructs   Due to the organization s desire not to alienate its customer base, it was important that the questionnaire be kept as short as possible. Where possible, we used multiple questions to assess constructs. However, some constructs \(e.g., e-satisfaction and value\were measured using only one item each. We believe that the realism of the sample and context are worth the tradeoff in terms of number of items per scale. This is especially true given the relative absence of studies of actual consumers engaged in real e-commerce purchases.  IS research has been inconsistent in terms of how information and system quality should be measured and different dimensions of each have been used in different studies. In the current research, we assessed information quality via items tapping the relevance, breadth, and depth of information on the site 21 d m easu r ed sy s t e m q u alit y v i a i t e m s tapping ease of navigation, speed of the site, and site layout [10, 21, 22   PU was measured via items tapping two aspects of the construct that were deemed important in online purchasing: comparative convenience and effectiveness. Trust was assessed through perceptions of trust and privacy w h ile perceiv e d v a l u e w a s measured via a single item asking respondents about the website saving them money on room rates. Esatisfaction was assessed via a single item aimed at capturing visitors overall satisfaction with the site  Finally, site stickiness was assessed via three items indicating preference and loyalty to the site. A complete list of survey items used, as well as their means and standard deviations, are found in Table 1  4.3. Measurement model   The psychometric properties of the scales were assessed via PLS. All scales exhibited good reliability with composite reliability scores above .91 for all constructs. In terms of discriminant validity: \(a\ all items had factor loadings of .84 or higher on their respective constructs exceeding the .70 recommended guideline and \(b\e square root of each construct s average variance extracted \(AVE\was greater than the inter-construct correlations of the construct with other constructs \(see Table 2\ indicating that all constructs share more variance with their indicators than with other constructs. These suggest that the scales exhibit adequate psychometric properties  Table 2. Inter-construct correlations   Sitestick Satisf PU Trust Value SQual IQual Sitestick 0.884   Satisf 0.615 1.000   PU 0.821 0.621 0.915  Trust 0.817 0.554 0.775 0.917 Value 0.679 0.483 0.691 0.674 1.000 SQual 0.773 0.627 0.778 0.757 0.595 0.898 IQual 0.807 0.643 0.747 0.747 0.613 0.794 0.936 Shaded values in leading diagonal are square root of avg variance extracted  4.4. Structural model   The research model and hypotheses were tested via PLS.  As shown in Figure 2, 46% of the variance in e-satisfaction is explained by our five independent variables. Further, 79% of the variance in site stickiness is explained by these five variables along with e-satisfaction  All paths in the structural model are significant at a level of .001 except for the path from trust to esatisfaction, indicating support for all our hypotheses except H5. However, given the very large sample size it is more appropriate to look at the effect size of each path coefficient, rather than its statistical significance alone, in determining the construct s practical value in the model. We can see that information quality and system quality \(with medium effect sizes\ are the most important predictors of e-satisfaction, followed by Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 perceived usefulness of the site. The path coefficient for perceived value is relatively small, and the path for Trust, as mentioned above, is not significant  While the hypothesized relationship between esatisfaction and site stickiness is statistically significant, the effect size is quite small. This indicates that e-satisfaction is not an important direct predictor of site stickiness. As hypothesized, e-satisfaction does not fully mediate the relationships between the five independent variables and site stickiness. Trust perceived usefulness, and information quality \(with medium effect sizes\ are the most important predictors of site stickiness while perceived value and system quality are of limited importance in predicting stickiness   Figure 2. PLS results  5. Discussion and conclusion   Prior to discussing our findings, we discuss the limitations of the study. First, the need to keep the survey short required that we use scales with fewer items than desired. Nonetheless, we believe that the items used capture the essence of the constructs Second, since this is a cross-sectional study, we cannot test the time-ordering of the constructs in the model and causal inferences are based on the underlying theory. Third, common method bias may have influenced the results though the non-significant effect and some low path coefficients may alleviate this concern to some extent. Further, Harman s one factor test does not indicate a single factor that accounts for the majority of the variance. Finally, since the survey was administered to actual website visitors and was voluntary we could not test for non-response bias  Our findings support the view, grounded in Bagozzi s framework, that an individual s appraisals  of website system quality, information quality, and usefulness, and to a lesser extent appraisals of the product value associated with that website, will lead to an emotional reaction overall satisfaction with the site\ that will in turn result in the coping response of being loyal to the site and planning to return to it as a first option in the future. However, the link between this particular emotional reaction and coping response is unexpectedly weak. The findings are consistent with IS success models and prior marketing research in indicating that satisfaction alone is not adequate to predict consumer behavior. Rather, one might choose to continue using a site regardless of their level of satisfaction with it, because it serves a useful purpose to them. This begs the question of whether other emotional reactions to one s appraisal of a website besides satisfaction, should be taken into consideration in e-commerce research [s  Furthermore, results underscore the importance of information quality and perceived usefulness to both esatisfaction and site stickiness. Both these constructs are task focused and aim at aiding the consumer \(either through information or other functionality\ in making a reservation. On the other hand, system quality which focuses on website design and usability has a stronger relationship with e-satisfaction than site-stickiness whereas trust and value have stronger relationships with site stickiness than with e-satisfaction. What these results seem to suggest is that \(a\k-focused constructs \(information quality and perceived usefulness\ are important determinants of both esatisfaction and site stickiness; \(b\ystem-focused constructs \(system quality\ are important determinants of e-satisfaction; and \(c\endor- and product-focused constructs are important determinants of site stickiness irrespective of satisfaction  The failure to find a significant relationship between Trust and e-satisfaction was somewhat surprising. However, the strength of the relationship between trust and site stickiness indicates that one s trust in the e-vendor is enough to lead a consumer to plan to return to the site regardless of whether they are otherwise satisfied with it   This study contributes to the IS literature in several ways. First, it provides a theoretical framework for understanding the antecedents of e-satisfaction and its relationship to site stickiness. Second, it expands the discussion of e-satisfaction to include not just perceptions of site characteristics, but also perceptions of vendor and product characteristics. Third, it tests this framework in a real world context, using a large sample of real consumers. Results suggest a tenuous relationship between e-satisfaction and site stickiness that needs to be explored in future research. Do the results imply absence of a relationship or do they suggest the presence of moderating effects not captured by the study? Results further suggest distinct groupings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 of antecedents that differ across the two dependent variables that are worthy of further investigation   5. References   R  E  A n d e rson and S  S  S r i n i v asan  E S at i s f act i o n an d E-Loyalty: A Contingency Framework Psychology Marketing vol. 20  no. 2, pp. 123-138, 2003  2 D. M  Sz y m a n sk i a nd R. T. Hise  E Sa tisf a c tion: A n  Initial Examination Journal of Retailing vol. 76  no. 3, pp 309-322, 2000  3 R. P. Ba g o z z i T he Se l f Re g u la tion of A ttitude s Intentions, and Behavior Social Psychology Quarterly vol 55  no. 2, pp. 178-204, June 1992  4 J. B. G o tlie b, D G r e w a l  a nd S. W  Brow n C onsum e r  Satisfaction and Perceived Quality: Complementary or Divergent Constructs Journal of Applied Psychology vol 79  no. 6, pp. 875-885, 1994   J J Cro n i n  M  K Brad y  an d G   T  M  Hu lt  A ssessin g  the Effects of Quality, Value, and Customer Satisfaction on Consumer Behavioral Intentions in Service Environments Journal of Retailing vol. 76  no. 2, pp. 193-218, 2000  6 D  G e f e n, E. K a ra ha nna a nd D  W  Stra ub T rus t a n d  TAM in Online Shopping: An Integrated Model MIS Quarterly vol. 27  no. 1, pp. 51-90, 2003  7 J  Sing h a n d D  Sir d e s h m uk h, "A g e ncy a nd T r us t  Mechanisms in Consumer Satisfaction and Loyalty Judgments Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science vol. 28  no. 1, pp. 150-168, 2000   S  Devaraj  M   F a n  an d R  Ko h l i  A n t eced en t s o f B2 C Channel Satisfaction and Preference: Validating e-Commerce Metrics Information Systems Research vol. 13  no. 3, pp 316-333, 2002  9 R  K ohli  S  D e v a ra j, a nd M. A  Ma hm ood  Understanding Determinants of Online Consumer Satisfaction: A Decision Process Perspective Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 21  no. 1, pp. 115135, 2004  10  V. Mc K i n n e y Y  K a ng h y un, a nd F. Za he di T he  Measurement of Web-Customer Satisfaction: An Expectation and Disconfirmation Approach Information Systems Research vol. 13  no. 3, pp. 296-315, 2002  11 Q  Che n a nd W  D  W e lls   Com Sa tisf a c tion a nd .Com  Dissatisfaction: One or Two Constructs Advances in Consumer Research vol. 28  no. 1, pp. 34-39, 2001  12 C  M  K  C h e u n g a n d M  K  O  L e e    T h e  A s y m m e t r i c  Effect of Website Performance on Satisfaction: An Empirical Study," in Proceedings of the 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2005  13 S. F. A b d i n n o u r-Helm B  S. Ch ap arro an d S. M  Farmer, "Using The End-User Computing Satisfaction EUCS\ Instrument To Measure Satisfaction With A Web Site Decision Sciences vol. 36  no. 2, pp. 341-364, 2005  14  S. M u y lle R. Moe n a e r t a nd M  De spo n ti n T he  Conceptualization and Empirical Validation of Web Site User Satisfaction Information & Management vol. 41  no 5, pp. 543-560, 2004  15 J W   P a lm e r W eb Site Usability Desi g n and  Performance Metrics Information Systems Research vol 13  no. 2, pp. 151-167, 2002  1 J S  Ch i o u  T h e A n teced e n ts o f Co n s u m ers Loyalty Toward Internet Service Providers Information Management vol. 41  pp. 685-695, 2004  17 S  N  R a m a s w a m i  T  S t r a d e r  a n d K  B r e t t   Determinants of On-Line Channel Use for Purchasing Financial Products International Journal of Electronic Commerce vol. 5  no. 2, pp. 95-118, 2000-2001  1 Cao T  S  G r u c a an d B  R Kl em z In t ern e t P r i c i n g  Price Satisfaction, and Customer Satisfaction International Journal of Electronic Commerce vol. 8  no. 2, pp. 31-50 2003-2004  19  V  A  Ze itham l C onsum e r P e r ceptio ns of  P r ic e  Quality, and Value: A Means-End Model and Synthesis of Evidence Journal of Marketing vol. 52  pp. 2-22, July 1988  20 J  B  E. M. Ste e nk a m p  C onc e p tua l Mo de l of the  Quality Perception Process Journal of Business Research vol. 21  pp. 309-333, December 1990  21 W  H  D e L one a n d E R   Mc L e a n T he D e L one a n d  McLean Model of Information Systems Success Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 19  no. 4, pp. 9-30 2003  22 A  Rai, S. S. L a n g an d R. B. W e l k er, "Asses sin g th e Validity of IS Success Models: An Empirical Test and Theoretical Analysis Information Systems Research vol 13  no. 1, pp. 50-69, 2002  23  P. B. Se dd on A Re s p e c i f i c a tion a n d Ex te ns io n of the  DeLone and McLean Model of IS Success Information Systems Research vol. 8  no. 3, pp. 240-253, 1997  24  M. W o lf inba rg e r a n d M. C. G illy  e T a ilQ  Dimensionalizing, Measuring and Predicting eTail Quality Journal of Retailing vol. 79  no. 3, pp. 183-198, 2003  25 B H  W i x o m a nd P. A  T odd  A  T h e o re tic a l Inte g r a tion of User Satisfaction a nd Technology Acceptance Information Systems Research vol. 16  no. 1, pp. 85-102 2005  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 26 R  L  O l i v e r   Satisfaction: A Behavioral Perspective on the Consumer New York: McGraw Hill, 1997  2 Z  Ji an g an d I Benb asat   V i r t u al  P r od u c t E x p e ri en ce  Effects of Visual & Functional Control of Products on Perceived Diagnosticity in Electronic Shopping Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 21  no. 3, pp. 111147, 2004/2005  28  P. A   P a v l ou a n d M  Fy ge ns on U n d e r s t a ndi ng a n d  Predicting Electronic Commerce Adoption: An Extension of the Theory of Planned Behavior MIS Quarterly vol. 30  no 1, pp. 115-143, March 2006  2  S  J Yoo n  T h e A n t eced en t s an d C o n s equ e n ces o f  Trust in Online Purchase Decisions Journal of Interactive Marketing vol. 16  no. 2, pp. 47-63, 2002  30  Z. Y a ng a n d R  T   P e te rs on C us t o m e r P e rc e i v e d Value, Satisfaction, and Loyalty: The Role of Switching Costs Psychology and Marketing vol. 21  no. 10, pp. 799822, 2004  31 S. L  J a rv e npa a a nd N   T r a c tins k y    C ons um e r  T r us t in an Internet Store: A Cross-Cultural Validation Journal of Computer Mediated Communication vol. 5  no. 2, pp. 1-35 1999  32 D  H  Mc K n ig ht V. C h oud hu r y a nd C  K a cm a r   Developing and Validating Trust Measures for eCommerce: An Integrative Typology Information Systems Research vol. 13  no. 3, pp. 334-359, 2002  3 N. Ku m a r, L  K. S c h eer and K.-B. E. M. Steenkamp The Effects of Supplier Fairness on Vulnerable Resellers Journal of Marketing Research vol. 17  pp. 54-65, February 1995  3 C  F l avi a n  M  G u i n al i u   an d R G u rrea T h e Ro l e  Played by Perceived Usability, Satisfaction and Consumer Trust on Website Loyalty Information & Management vol 43  pp. 1-14, 2006  35 L  C  H a rris a n d M M. H   G oode  T he Four L e v e ls of Loyalty and the Pivotal Role of Trust: A Study of Online Service Dynamics Journal of Retailing vol. 80  pp. 139158, 2004  36 S. K i m a nd L  Stoe hl, "A ppa re l Re ta ile rs  We bs ite  Quality Dimensions and Satisfaction Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services vol. 11  no. 2, pp. 109-117, 2004  37 D  L una L  A  P e r a c c hio a nd M. D   de J u a n  C r o s s Cultural and Cognitive Aspects of Web Site Navigation Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science vol. 30  no. 4 pp. 397-410, 2002  38 R  E. B u c k lin a n d C  Sis m eiro A Mode l of W e b Site  Browsing Behavior Estimated on Clickstream Data Journal of Marketing Research vol. 40  pp. 249-267, August 2003  39 H  S  B a n s a l  G  H  G  M c D o u g a l l  S  S  D i k o l l i  a n d K   L. Sedatole, "Relating e-satisfaction to behavioral outcomes an empirical study Journal of Services Marketing vol. 18  no. 4, pp. 290-302, 2004  40  M. K h a lif a  M. L i m a y e m  a nd V L i u O nli n e  Consumer Stickiness: A longitudinal study Journal of Global Information Management vol. 10  no. 3, pp. 1-14 2002  41 G  Ba la ba nis  N  Re y nolds  a nd A  Sim i ntira s  B a s e s o f  e-Store Loyalty: Perceived Switching Barriers and Satisfaction Journal of Business Research vol. 59  pp. 214224, 2006  4  Bh attach erjee A n e m p i rical an aly s is o f th e  antecedents of electronic commerce service continuance Decision Support Systems vol. 32  pp. 201-214, 2001  43 R. L  O liv e r W he nc e Cons um e r  L o y a lt y    Journal of Marketing vol. 63: Fundamental Issues and Directions for Marketing  pp. 33-44, 1999  44 W  H  D e L one a n d E  R  Mc L e a n I nf or m a tion Sy s t em s Success: The Quest for the Dependent Variable Information Systems Research vol. 3  no. 1, pp. 60-95, 1992  45 D  G e f e n a nd D  W   Stra ub  T he Re la tiv e I m porta nc e  of Perceived Ease-of-Use in IS Adoption: A Study of eCommerce Adoption Journal of the Association for Information Systems vol. 1  no. 8, pp. 1-30, 2000  4  F  Davi s P ercei v ed Usef u l n ess  P e rcei ved E a se o f Use  and User Acceptance of Information Technology MIS Quarterly vol. 13  no. 3, pp. 319-340, 1989  47 T  Z. C h a n g a nd A  R  W ildt P ric e  P r od uc t Information, and Purchase Intention: An Empirical Study Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science vol. 22  no. 1 pp. 16-27, 1994  48 D  Sir d e s hm uk h, J  Sing h  a nd B Sa b o l C o n s u m e r  Trust, Value, and Loyalty in Relational Exchanges Journal of Marketing vol. 66  pp. 15-37, January 2002  4 D J Kim  S elf P e rcep tio n Based V e rsu s T r an sferen ceBased Trust Determinants in Computer-Mediated Transactions: A Cross-Cultural Comparison Study Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 24  no. 4, pp. 1345, 2008  5 R A g ar w a l an d V   V e n k atesh  A ss essin g a F i r m s Web Presence: A Heuristic Evaluation Procedure for the Measurement of Usability Information Systems Research vol. 13  no. 2, pp. 168-186, 2002    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 Table 1. Scale items and descriptive statistics  Construct Item Name Item Wording Mean Std. Dev Satisfaction 1  Satisfaction How satisfied are you with this site 4.30 0.861 Based on your best online experience, to what extent do you value [website.com 2  Perceived Usefulness Comparison facilitates your ability to compare hotels effectively 7.11 1.992 Convenience is the most convenient way to choose your hotel accommodations  7.36 1.985 Information Quality Breadth covers the range of information you need 7.47 1.880 Depth gives you the amount of detail you need 7.29 2.018 Relevance has content that is relevant to the purpose of your visit 7.68 1.760 System Quality Ease of Use is easy for you to navigate 7.55 1.843 Layout has a site design that is logical to you 7.46 1.848 Speed displays pages quickly 7.67 1.693 Site Stickiness Channel is your preferred way of interacting with the organization 7.46 1.920 Loyalty has earned your loyalty 7.25 1.979 Starting Point you use whenever you plan a trip or event 7.16 2.022 Trust Privacy respects your privacy 7.52 1.685 Trust establishes in you a feeling of trust 7.24 1.810 Value Bottom Line can save you money on room rates 6.82 2.180 1 Measured on a 5-point scale from not at all satisfied to completely satisfied  2 Measured on a 10-point Likert scale    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


5 EVALUATION Evaluation experiments described in this section are conducted on a TI OMAP 1511 Innovator device which runs in frequencies up to 200MHz. It has 32MB ROM as well as 32MB RAM. The OS used is a version of embedded Linux, and the JVM used is Intent from TAO Group The source documents and stylesheets used for evaluation are randomly selected from Sarvega’s XSLTBench and DataPower’s XSLTMark [17  after initially excluding some unrealistic transformations. We select these two benchmarks as they are influential indust ry benchmark and that they both support XSLT benchmarking. Note that some of the large source documents are less likely to have recurrent structures in real-world applications. We included them regardless as they might help us understand the implication of document size on system performance. Table 1 lists sizes of sample documents and the transformation stylesheets used for them. Table 2 lists the raw numbers used in following discussions Documents are fully read into memory before any measurement starts to minimize external disturbance Warm-up runs are always conducted prior to real measurement runs 5.1 Tokenization Figure 12 compares the speed of Swift mode and Hash mode against the speed of Nature mode tokenization The Swift mode is by far the fasted, having a median speedup of 2.40 over Nature mode. The median speed of Hash mode is about 81% of that of Nature mode which means a median hashing overhead of about 23.5%. In the worst case, this overhead is about 37.4 for wai  5.2 DOM-style Parsing Figure 13 and Figure 14 compare speed of Structure Encoding based parsing against that of kXML parsing for both Receiver ID Assigning and Sender ID Assigning. In Receiver ID Assigning, the underlying tokenizer always uses Hash mode, while in Sender ID Assigning, the tokenizer uses Swift mode when cache hit ratio is 100% \(i.e., structure of incoming document is always in cache\ode when cache hit ratio is 0 Figure 13 shows the results for the ideal case when cache hit ratio is 100%: the median relative speed is 4.34 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 1.35 when Receiver ID Assigning is used. The best case is in backwords and game which use the same source document\to 8 under Sender ID Assigning Figure 14 shows the results for the worst case when cache hit ratio is 0%: the median relative speed is 1.07 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 0.90 \(or an overhead of %11.1\ID Assigning is used. The worst sample is wai where the overhead is about 20.5% under Receiver ID Assigning. The reason Figure 12. Comparing Performance of Tokenization Modes Figure 14. Comparing Structure Encoding Based XML Parsing and kXML Parsing \(Cache Hit Ratio = 0 Figure 13. Comparing Structure Encoding Based XML Parsin g and kXML Parsin g Cache Hit Ratio 100  
321 


that Structure Encoding is a little faster than kXML even when cache hit ratio is 0 is likely because of the fact that, while we use kXML for tree building, we modified it slightly to interface it with our tokenizer which resulted in differences in execution traces and slight differences in runtime performance when execute in JVM Overall, these two figures demonstrate that Structure Encoding based parsing provides substantial speedup when structure recurrence is frequent, and incurs low overhead when such recurrence is rare 5.3 Transformation Similarly, Figure 15 and Figure 16 compare transformation speed of Structure Encoding based XSL processor against that of XT for both Sender ID Assigning and Receiver ID Assigning. Again, under Receiver ID Assigning, the underlying tokenizer always uses Hash mode, while under Sender ID Assigning, the tokenizer uses either Swift mode or Nature mode Figure 15 shows the results for the ideal case when cache hit ratio is 100%: the median relative speed of Structure Encoding based implem entation is 5.38 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 2.72 when Receiver ID Assigning is used. The best case is trend  where the relative speed is over 39 for Sender ID Assigning, and over 25 for Receiver ID assigning Figure 16 shows the results for the worst case when cache hit ratio is 0%: the median relative speed is 0.996 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 0.918 or an overhead of 8.9 is used. The worst sample is nitf-stylized where the overhead is about 14.6% under Receiver ID Assigning These two figures show that Structure Encoding based XSL processing offers even higher potential speedup than parsing, yet incurs lower overhead in worst cases This is understandable as, typi cally, a large portion of operations in transformation is for costly structurerelated operations, which we have pre-processed offline. Note that, as long as structure recurrence is frequent, the potential improvement is very high \(up to a median relative speed of 2.72\even if the receiver has to calculate structure ID through hashing 5.4 Compression We conducted an experiment to examine the effectiveness of Structure Encoding based compression. In the experiment, for each sample document, we randomly changed the values of 3 rd 8 th  13 th i.e., one in every 5, starting from the 3 rd  attribute and text node values. Thus our experiment Figure 16. Comparing Structu re Encoding Based Transformation and XT  Cache Hit Ratio 0  Figure 15. Comparing Structu re Encoding Based Transformation and XT  Cache Hit Ratio = 100  Table 3. Compression and its effect on tokenization speed \(Assuming changes in 20% of the text and attribute values Document Size in KB Comp Size Byte Natur e ms Swift ms Comp  ms axis 0.38 48 7.1 4.8 0.8 backwards 2.62 81 33.3 7.4 1.8 chart 1.29 91 18.5 7.7 1.3 book 1.21 129 15.1 8.6 1.1 game 2.62 81 33.1 7.2 1.8 midsummer 146 20760 1990 913.4 111.7 nitf-stylized 5.79 564 67.3 25.1 4.0 recipes 16.7 2355 164.3 99 11.4 sort 10.3 752 129.8 32.2 8.8 sp 3.53 554 36.2 21.5 2.6 total 1.31 91 18.6 6.8 1.3 trend 1.9 169 36.5 10.8 2.7 wai 0.58 15 9.1 4.5 0.6 
322 


assumes that around 20% of the attribute and text values are different from the template values Table 3 lists results from this experiment. The third column of the table shows the number of bytes transmitted for each sample document, while the 6 th column shows the time used to construct tokens from the compressed document. The table shows that, under above-described setup, the amount of data transmitted are reduced to 2.6% to 15.7% of the original size second column, listed in KB time is reduced to 5.4% to 11.3% of the Nature mode tokenization time, or 11.5% to 25% of the Swift mode tokenization time 5.5 Discussion Since in our implementations, we make changes to base systems \(KXML and XT changes are required to implement Structure Encoding performance differences demonstrated in this section are caused by differences in techniques rather than differences in implementations Our experiments clearly show that Structure Encoding can, potentially, greatly improve the efficiency of XML processing with relatively low penalty for worst cases. The worst case scenario happens when a receiver uses hash function to identify the structure of a document, only to find out that the document structure is not in cache. The penalty it pays for such worst case scenario, 11.1% for DOM-style parsing and 8.9% for transformation, can easily be compensated by future structure recurrence. Such cache-miss penalty is negligible when sender-assigning scheme is used Systems that are conscious of such client-side penalty can let the sender or anyone in the middle of the transmission path to assign ID without altering the semantics of the message or document Although we didn’t measure the impact of compression on parsing and transformation, it can be inferred from tables 2 and 3. For example, in the book case, with tokenization time reduced from 8.6ms Swift mode\s \(compressed\e will likely be further reduced from 8.8ms to around 1.3ms compared with 24.4ms for KDOM\Similarly transformation time may be further reduced from 11.5ms to around 4.0ms \(compared with 48.3ms for XT\Encoding based XML compression offers additi onal, significant performance improvements for XML parsing and transformation in mobile environments, where closelycoupled proxies commonly exists. With compression turned off, Structure Enc oding is fully compatible with Web specifications and can be used between any two Internet hosts, and it still offer very significant performance improvements when there is structure recurrence Without compression, for documents with recurrent structures, tokenization and structure hashing cost dominates the overall cost for parsing, and is the major part of the cost for transformation. Tokenization and structure hashing however are relatively simple operations that may be implemented in hardware with low cost. \(In fact, some mobile chipsets already have hardware implementation of hash functions such as MD5 for security purposes implementation can reduce tokenization and structure hashing cost to a fifth of the current cost, then there will be additional substantial improvement for the parsing and transformation of most of the documents used in our experiments In our system, a document havi ng a structure slightly different \(e.g., added a new element\from a previous structure will not be able to reuse the structure processing result of the previous structure. However our system pays off as long as this new, slightly different structure recurs in future documents 6 CONCLUSION, LIMITATIONS, AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we motivated exploiting structure recurrence to speedup XML processing in mobile environments, by reduci ng structure related transmission and processing costs. We presented the concept of Structure Encoding, and described approaches to quickly identifying recurring structures including one using collision-resistant hash function We explained in detail how to use structure encoding to speedup XML transmission, tokenization, treebuilding, and transformation. We described our implementation of st ructure encoding based tokenizer DOM parser \(based on kXML\processor \(based on XT\pression scheme. Our experiments conducted on a mobile test-bed demonstrated dramatic performance improvement in the presence of structure recurrence and low overhead otherwise. In ideal cases structure encoding offers speedups of up to 7 for parsing and over 38 for XSL transformation, and up to 97.4% in size reduction when 20% of the text and attribute values change Structure encoding, however, is not applicable to all XML applications. Rather, it is more applicable to data-centric XML processing than to document-centric XML processing. A user randomly browsing Web pages is not likely to have high structure recurrence probabilities 
323 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


