Users of Open Source Software How do they get help  Vandana Singh University of Tennessee vandana@utk.edu   Michael B. Twidale University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign twidale@illinois.edu  David M. Nichols University of Waikato dmn@cs.waikato.ac.nz    Abstract  A study was conducted across multiple open source software online technical help communities. This paper presents the types of discu 
ssions that occur, the types of questions asked and the type of responses that are given. The implications fo r socio-technical design are considered, exploring how help requests and discussions can be used to improve future help-giving documentation and interface and functionality redesign  1. Introduction  A criticism of open source software \(OSS\ well as a major hindrance in its adoption is the apparent lack of technical support. Since many of these products come into being through a programmers itch  OSS developers are not necessarily inclined to provide support to the less technically adept end-users of 
software. Nor do they necessarily have expertise in developing documentation and manuals. This leads to products being produced but not being consistently supported. It has even led to a secondary market in selling a supportive infrastructure wrapped around free products most notably in the case of various Linux products. However, although the OSS developers may not be providing support, fellow users do. Typically open source software product websites have a support section that consists of multiple resources and channels of communication among the product users for the 
purposes of technical support. Our study focuses on the discussion forums present on these websites, meant for the users of the product to discuss among themselves any problems / issues with the software. As part of a larger body of work on online OSS technical support communities, this paper examines the nature of the questions asked and the responses given. We believe this can be useful both to consider how such analyses can be used to improve help-giving, and indeed the overall usability of OSS, but also may be of use in comparing these discussions with other somewhat 
similar discussions, such as technical help with proprietary software, in-house technical help forums other \(non-technical\help forums, and highly technical forums not explicitly oriented to help-giving to end users. This paper situates our work drawing on similar contexts in multiple research areas such as online communities, open source software and discussion forums. We describe the data collection and analysis method, noting the ways that time and budget constrained out investigation. We highlight the main results regarding the nature of the discussions, the 
types of questions and the types of responses present in online technical support for open source software Finally, we present a discussion along with design recommendations and future work   2. Related Work  The OSS technical support bulletin boards that we studied are asynchronous, remote, mostly text-based and provided by volunteers rather than paid experts. As such they have similarities and differences from the bulletin boards used in the OSS development process itself and from other kinds of help giving, each of 
which has its own research literature  2.1. Research in Open Source Software  Research in OSS has examined many issues including the evolution of the developer community developers motivations, adoption in commercial businesses, the culture of developers, policy issues, and problem solving. There have been only a limited number of multiple-project studies, reflecting the early stage of OSS research, the complexity of the phenomenon and the difficulty in obtaining comparable data across projects. Missing from almost all the OSS literature is a consideration of end users 
and their problem solving approaches The community of OSS developers has been studied, mostly large quantitative studies undertaken to see who the people are who contribute most to the code development, what the social network of the community members looks like and how projects revolve around some people. By contrast, there are Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


certain aspects of OSS development that have received less attention including: usability   the users of OSS d u s e r driv e n inn o v a tio n 24  As noted by The least explored areas of OSS success included in the model are user impact and the role of user factors users may vary in their ability to use and benefit from OSS based on factors such as their technical expertise Maass u m s u p the  present status of OSS field research as most empirical studies on OSS communities concentrate on secondary logging information such as that provided by mailing lists, IRC chat logs and code repositories   The only work w e are aw are of t h at look s a t  technical help for OSS, is mostly concerned with motivation, trying to answer why people bother to help others, and not really examining how the help unfolds which is our main interest, and the focus of this paper  2.2. Research on Online Discussion Forums  The study by Constant et al. [2 ou gh  n o t abou t  OSS has similar data set to that of the present study: a set of technical help request emails being broadcast to an entire organization. The research showed that problems were solved by the weak tie relationshi there was no need to know a person to answer their question and also that the usefulness of the information provided by the information givers was not based on the fact that the problem was solved or not. In some cases even though some information providers gave useful advice \(as rated by help-seekers\ they were not necessarily the ones that solved the problem and hence it re-affirms the hypotheses that even though the problem is not being solved but still the contributions are useful. This was validated in the study by the experts who said that despite the knowledge of the inconsequentiality of their response they were posting the answers. They knew that there were other people who could answer this question and also that they might not essentially be contributing to the problem solving process, they would contribute  2.3. Research on Online Communities  Preece et al. [16 e loped techn o logy o riented  definitions of online communities by the software that supports them. They talk about the chat, bulletin board listserv, UseNet News, MUDs \(Multi-user dungeons MOOs \(Object-oriented MUDs\d web-based communities and emphasize that such descriptions are concise and meaningful to those who know about software. While they indicate what conversation protocols are like, they say little about social interaction in the community Bu s t u d ied a v a riet y of  w o rkrelated  and non-work related online communities, excluding those that had medical or psychological support as their objective. They explored the question of why people contribute to these online communities, what do they get out of it and who are the people who contribute to the different types of activities in them They found that it was not that owners or moderators spent much more time in the activities but that they spent more time in doing active work in the form of infrastructure maintenance; they did not differ in the time that they spent on reading and writing messages compared to the active or the silent participants of the community. They found out that the owners were involved in different types of activities than the other users and also perceived different types of benefits The owners perceived the social benefits as being very important and that led them to spend more time in community building and maintenance activities  2.4. Research in Online Customer Support  Online executives and Internet marketing academics alike agree that the need to develop a comprehensive understanding of consumer behavior in commercial online environments is urgent. Researchers in s e rt t h at t h ere h a s been a lac k of g e nu i n e  knowledge about what contributes to effective interactions with online customers, although previous research suggests that creating a compelling online environment for Web consumers will have numerous positive consequences for commercial Web providers Web-based customer support systems can be used for internal and external customer su h e Web environment allows consumers to recover from their mistakes d to ov ercom e s o m e dif f icu l ties  associated with traditional media; e.g. it may ameliorate problems of accessibility, bottlenecks interaction, and identification Nambisan and Baron oun d pos itiv e ben e f i t s to  customers of participation in interactive productoriented environments in four main areas cognitive/learning, community membership, personal status and affect. Although cognitive benefits \(learning how to fix a problem with their product\portant participants reported that the process of interaction itself was valuable \(even without a positive outcome Wiertz and de Ruyt u gg es t th at in  f i r m supported online forums that user s contributions are most strongly influenced by the learning benefits social effects and the user s propensity to interact online   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


3. Studying Help  The aim of the study is to provide insight into the nature of communication of these online communities The general research question is What is being discussed in these user-based online support communities Specifically the study was designed to answer the following three questions 1 What are the different types of things being discussed in these communities 2 What are the specific types of questions that are being asked in these communities, which are common across websites 3 What are the specific types of responses being provided to the questions of help-seekers in these communities  3.1. Data Collection: Source and Criteria  Under the constraints of time and budget, we wanted to get a reasonably complete list of the different types of discussions. Consequently we collected twenty threads each from eight different websites making a total of 160 threads. These threads were collected by using stratified sampling approach Only threads that were completed were sampled, where completion was defined as no new posting having been added in the six months before the collection date Starting with the most recent thread to meet this criterion and working backwards, every 10 th thread was selected to make up the 20 in the set for that website Table 1 presents the list of websites used for data collection. These eight websites were chosen because they represent different types of open source software products the categorization was adopted from the categorization of open source software products on the sourceforge.net website. This was done to ensure that different types of products were being used such as browsers, programmers tools, networking collaborative software, application software, etc  3.2. Data Analysis  Grounded Theory w a s us e d as th e bas i s  f o r data  analysis, an approach that is well suited for phenomena that are emergent or poorly understood   th e proces s of  g rounded th eory dev e lop m e n t  theory generation and development is done inductively by studying the phenomenon it represents. Concepts are discovered, developed, and provisionally verified through systematic data collection and analysis. One does not begin with a theory, and then prove it. Rather one begins with an area of study and what is relevant to that area is allowed to emerge All the problem interactions were coded iteratively to develop some basic concepts, producing a list of categories for types of discussions, types of questions and types of responses. There are three stages of coding \(open coding, axial coding & selective coding In each of these stages, at least three iterations of coding were done to ensure all the categories are present and also to ensure that every time the same categories were identified. So, overall in data analysis each thread was analyzed at least nine times For reasons of economy, the coding of the data was done manually by one researcher. This has the advantage of eliminating concerns of inter-coder reliability in developing the categories, but raises concerns of intra-coder reliability and bias. These are at least partially addressed by the iterative nature of method itself, but bias remains a concern to be addressed in future work. Also, part of the aim of this work is that by disseminating the results we solicit independent validation / refutation / assessment of usefulness of the emergent categories by other researchers independently testing our categories on other data sets Although 160 threads is a small sample particularly when compared to the sizes typically used in more quantitative methods, it needs to be noted that coding and recoding is an extremely lengthy and laborious process. The sample size was constrained by resources, but was we believe sufficient for the purposes of the study and for the particular results reported. As a low cost test of relative completeness, 5 more threads from each website were briefly examined not formally coding the elements\ and no new categories were found Multiple types of categories and concepts were discovered during this iterative coding process. In this paper we focus specifically on the content of the online discussion forums for technical support: the nature of the discussions, the types of questions and the types of responses available  4. Results  Grounded Theory typically focuses on qualitative data. However we begin with a few simple \(low cost to obtain\antitative measures to give a rough sense of the scale of the issues being analyzed. As mentioned in Section 3.1, 160 threads were selected from 8 different websites. These 8 forums involve a large number of people as evidenced by the number of registered users Excluding the most active forum studied \(Firefox exceptionally large\he 7 remaining websites had in total approximately 4 million registered users at the time of the data collection. Of course this is an overcount: some people could well be in more than one Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


forum and some may have multiple registered identities. However, one does not have to be registered to read these forums - only to post to them. So these numbers may well be an undercount of total forum usage. The view indicates heavy use: 50% of interactions are viewed 100-200 times and 35% are viewed 200-500 times, although of course not all views are productive for users. Nevertheless these crude numbers give a sense of the overall size and significance of the users of open source software engaged in technical support Each thread ranged from 1-8 messages in length with a median of 4. A thread involved from 1-7 people with an average of 3-4. The time from posting a question in a new thread to receiving some kind of response is good overall. It is a very impressive one minute for a few messages \(3%\ and almost half \(48 messages had a response in less than an hour. Within 12 hours, 82% of the questions had received a response. There were a few \(3.3%\ messages that did not receive any response after one week From the above we can see that despite being a service provided by volunteers independently choosing to answer postings, help forums in general seem to be responsive. But are they effective? Deciding from the messages alone whether a help interaction was effective can be difficult just because the help given is correct is no guarantee that the help seeker can understand it or use it. A very conservative criterion was used to categorize a thread as solved whether the help seeker posted a message saying so. If the help seeker \(or anyone else\e proposed solution and it worked but they never came back to post a message telling the forum that it worked, then the interaction was categorized as unsolved. So, an explicit thank you, that worked message had to be present for a thread to be categorized as solved This strict criterion gives us a safe undercount measure for success. Out of the 160 threads, about 30 met this strict definition of solved, 60% were unsolved and the remaining 10% were split roughly evenly between questions that did not get responses and posts that were not questions On average the threads were active \(time from first request to last response\or 14 days, and the average time for receiving the first response was 3 days 8 hours. Given the very rapid response to many requests this indicates a long tail response effect. Almost twenty percent \(18.5%\ problems received their last response with an hour. This does not necessarily mean that they were solved in less than an hour but it means that these threads were not getting any more messages after one hour. A majority of threads \(60%\were over in less than a day, 81% of threads were over in less than a week and only 3% of threads were active for more than a month The amount of time taken to solve a problem is impressive. Just over half of the solved threads were solved in less than one day! Almost 75% of the solved problems were solved in less than a week and only 8.5% problems took over a month to be solved. All the solved problems got their first response within a week Over 90% of the solved interactions got their first response within a day For one of these eight communities \(Firefox\we identified the core members of that community those who posted the largest number of messages   As Table 2 shows, these members had an extremely high level of contribution both in the forum as a whole and in our sample. The most active contributor has nearly 36,000 posts on the forum in their 22 months on the forum. The number of months on the forum since first registering does not seem to have a high correlation to the number of messages posted  Table 2. Core Member Statistics Username Months on Forum Total Messages in Dataset Messages on Forum CoreMem1 22 124 35719 CoreMem2 21 40 24432 CoreMem3 51 14 20913 CoreMem4 54 24 14342 CoreMem5 28 15 4592  This disproportionate concentration of effort parallels that found in open-source development communities: 4% of members account for 50% of answers on a user-to-user help s d 4% of  developers contribute 88% of new code and 66% of code fixes  4.1. Types of Discussion Considering all threads, discussions can be categorized into five categories, as shown in Table 3 along with their relative frequency, and elaborated below. As expected, a large majority \(76 Table 1. List of Projects for Data Collection Websites 1 NVU 2 Opera 3 Filezilla 4 phpMyAdmin 5 phpBB 6 Dropline 7 MozillaFirefox 8 Moodle Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


interactions are problem solving. However, in this data set across eight websites that still leaves almost a quarter of interactions in other categories. Most of the remaining threads are information seeking discussions like Does this exist  Where can I find x  etc Six percent of threads have no questions, no information seeking or dissemination but are social discussions that are not necessarily related to the product 1  Problem Solving  This is the most common category where the help-seeker does not know what is wrong or how to do a certain thing. The interaction typically consists of one person posting a question and others posting back responses to either ask more detailed clarificatory questions or to provide solutions These problem solving interactions are discussed in detail in sections 4.3 and 4.4 under the types of questions and types of responses  Table 3. Types of Discussions Types of Discussion Occurrence Problem Solving 76 Information Seeking 14 Social Discussion 6 Feature Request 2 Information Dissemination 2  2  Social Discussion \(about the software, about the forum, about the help process, thanks interactions  These interactions are not about any specific feature or problem or solution but are general discussions about the software and the discussion forums 3  Information Seeking Discussion Unlike problem solving, here the help seeker has a clear idea of what they want, but just need information on locating it a\ Where to find x  This was the second most prevalent category, where one person would ask where to find a site to upgrade, a piece of documentation, or an extension b\ Need Information / Recommendation Interactions that are not really about solving a problem or necessarily about the software in question, but just general help with computer problems and asking for recommendations from the people on the forum. An example is a request at Mozilla Firefox Community for recommendations on a registry scan  I keep on getting these annoying messages about my registry being corrupt and needs to be scanned and cleaned. I don't understand this considering this is a brand new hard drive that I just had installed 2 days ago If anyone has any suggestions on a free registry scan please post c Does this Exist  These were the messages exploring the functionalities of the software in question and would generally take the form Can I do this  Is there a way to do this Etc. Sometimes, there was a comparison with competitive software or the previous version. Some questions were of the form this feature was present in the previous version / software I used does it exist in this one  4. Information Dissemination These are not problem solving but tips for the software use. They are also presented as work-arounds to some existing known problems with the software  I installed a fresh copy of Dropline Gnome 2.14.1 on a brand new Dell and Slackware install and found that Gaim wouldn't stay running. It turns out that it crashes with the following Code: Creating link home/[i]account[/i]/.kde/socketfreyja. can't create mcop directory where freyja is the hostname for my system and account is my login account home. The solution is to do the following as the appropriate login \(modify it accordingly for your situation Code: mkdir -p home/[i]account[/i]/.kde/socketfreyja I couldn't find anyone else in the forum with the problem, so thought I'd just post it here  5. Feature Request Discussion As the name indicates this are the messages that are requesting a particular feature in the software and show the process of feedback to developers in the responses that followed these requests  I gave opera 8.5 a shot and found it faster and better behaved. I would forusre go and run opera 8.5 if the block content" was there. There are many a smart person and "computer geeks" that post here. Maybe a modified version of 8.5 could be released. Not sure if it would work Not sure it can be done. Its just my humble opinion that a 8.5 with a good ad blocker would be a stripped down version of 9.0 From these five categories of discussion types, we can say that these forums, though essentially used for solving problems, are also important in other aspects Specifically, we find the categories about information seeking, information dissemination and feature request to be crucial. These threads are intermingled among all the threads, but we propose that these are also very Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


special contributions of these users and should be harvested for important bits of information. For instance, the information dissemination category has tips and work-arounds to successfully perform a particular task using the software. This is an important category where the software does not do this work, but the users have appropriated a smart use of it, to get their work done. Also, the tips and work-arounds are suggested are the points of user initiated innovation and must be utilized for that. Just as a starting point in the forums, these tips / work around can be presented as sticky threads \(which remain at the top of the list of threads in the forum, rather than moving down the list as new threads are created\This would preserve them for re-use and avoid their loss in all the other messages Also, these information dissemination messages should be made more visible than the average question and answers because they will potentially serve a larger number of users We found the potential of explicit and implicit feedback to the product developers. The category of Feature Request contains messages where users are specifically asking the developers to add certain functionality that will be useful in getting their work done. In our study, we did not explore evidence of this feedback to the developers being utilized but we strongly believe that these messages should have a way to make it to the developers. These can just be forwarded to another list or can be collected and send to the developers of the software as direct feedback from the users. We also found instances of indirect feedback to developers through the information seeking messages categorized as Does this exists  These messages once again, are looking for a feature that the users think should be in the software and would be useful but are not aware of its presence. This means one of two things; either that this feature is not present and hence this can also be used as a feature request message or that the feature is present but is not visible to the user and hence the usability of this feature needs to be re-evaluated. In both the types of feedback to the developers, once a threshold of messages is reached, the feature should move to the priority list of developers, thereby providing direct feedback to the developers  4.2. Types of Questions  Questions posed in online discussion forums can simply be divided into two broad categories: those asked by the help-seekers and those asked by the helpgivers. Subsequent analysis gave a number of subcategories. The help-seekers posted questions about how to get things done, why am I stuck, what is wrong etc. while the help-givers asked about background information of the help seeker s computer, the task that they were doing, the results of following the steps that they have taken, and so forth. Table 4 and Table 5 show the categories that emerged after in-depth coding Both questions and responses arise from non-unique coding a posting can contain multiple questions responses or both  Table 4. Questions by Help-givers \(Follow-Up Questions  1 Background Information questions  OS Browser  2 Clarification questions  what says phpMyAdmin libraries/common.lib. php on line 2979  3 Give a screenshot  I really can't see and find these icons. Can you scrrenshot it  4 History Details  Any extensions? And have you cleared your downloads history lately  5 It works for me, did you try this Works for me. Did you clear your cache and try it again If that doesn't work, close Firefox and delete mimeTypes.rdf from your profile http://kb.mozillazine.org/Pr ofile_folder  Where_is_my_profile_folder.3 F 6 Repeat the question what is your problem then upload or displaying uploaded table   4.3. Types of Response  A response typology was developed to categorize the different types of responses posted on these online discussion forums as illustrated in Table 6. The ten types of responses are as follows 1  Instructional  This category represents the responses that were usually given by help-givers and consisted of explicit, detailed, step-by-step instructions, code for achieving the solution  2  Explanatory These are the messages that were written either by help-givers or by help-seekers. When help-givers write explanatory messages, they give details of the software processes; explain functionality and logic of the software activities. Help-seekers are explaining what they have done on their own before reaching the bottleneck 3  Informational  This category represents the messages that are providing basic information about the software or the forums, these also can come from either the help-seekers or the help-givers. When helpgivers write informational messages they are telling from their experience in the forums  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


4  Re-directional  This is a very important category of responses. It consists of the messages, usually from help-givers, directing help seekers to solutions. For example, the help giver will point the help seeker to a previous thread / wiki / manual / documentation with solution to their problems 5  Verificational The responses that fall in this category are me too responses. These are responses from help-seekers and might seem like noise and not useful, but, as we found out in our data, these me too  responses serve two purposes. Firstly, they verify the initial help-seekers problem by saying that they are having the same problem. Secondly, and more importantly, they provide contextual information about the problem to the help-givers and help in formulating the complete problem 6  Innovative  These are the responses where users post some innovative solutions like work-around or tips. These are sometimes solutions and sometimes unsolicited responses with the hope of common good The users post a trick or special appropriation of the software Table 5. Types of Questions by Help-seekers Type of Questions Examples 1 Any suggestions ideas after the last two updates, I get a regular "Server not found screen. After I click the "try again" button 4 or 5 times, the page comes up. I have checked everything I can think of and can find no fix. VERY annoying and time consuming. Any suggestions 2 Anyone else has this problem I just updated my firefox and now, every time I open the browser, the toolbar buttons on my Yahoo! toolbar don't load. When I "click here to retry" they come up fine Does anyone else have this problem 3 Can this be done / Is it possible to do this Is it possible force use another charset \(Win1251, for example\ to make Filezilla Server compatible with older clients \(like FAR Manager, for example\?é çI use Moodle as file manager in topic format is it possible to get the topic number larger than 52 4 Comparison Is it just me or FFx 2.0 RC 3 is a bit faster than Opera 5 Does this exist Is there an extension that replicates this Opera feature in Firefox 6 Feature Request/Exist Opera seriously needs a better ad-blocker. The ad-blocker that come with Opera 9.02 is horrible IMHO. I have to manually pick what to block! I don't think so; you can't even block some ads 7 Error message Anyone any idea why we are getting a 403 forbidden error code 8 Doesn t work Media player and Opera not working properly together. When using the next/previous/play etc buttons on my keyboard, they don't work when the Opera window is active 9 How to Anyone knows how to bypass the Login screen 10 Information needed Recommendation A ny recommendations for any extension that can support unlimited note pages \(preferably in tab style like foxnote\ for firefox 11 Is it a bug? Is there a workaround The paragraph of body text overlaps the heading on my webpage when viewing in Opera. Is this a bug in Opera? Is there a workaround 12 What to do When I "Print preview" web pages the images dont appear. What setting do I need to Change 13 What am I doing wrong the page I am trying to edit on my site does not go to the webpage that I can see on the Internet. I can see it under one of the lists in the site manager and whenI click on it it appears in the window next to the site manager. Does anyone have any suggestions on what I am doing wrong 14 What is happening This error should happen once or twice, but it keeps happening, whats going on 15 What is wrong These are my settings can anyone see what is wrong 16 Where Where to find NVU compatible pre-built template 17 Why does this happen Why is this happening and how can I fix it Opera keeps freezing up and making my computer go slow and i have to push shift alt and delete and kill it. Why does this keep happening I hyperlinked text in my instruction to the location of the forums all those links appear to be removed/defaulted to something else written in gibberish in the last few days today they are not the same. What can cause this and how can I make sure the links retain their original address Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


7  Speculative These are the messages where the help giver is not sure if what h/she is proposing is a solution or not but they speculate and ask the help seeker to try something and report back to the forum 8  Negational These are the responses that are not adding anything to the conversation and posted by help-givers who volunteer and will say that they don t know how to solve this problem 9  Solicitational  The messages in this category are very common as follow-up questions by the helpgivers. In these messages the help giver is the details about the software, operating system, work history etc. These questions form a very large part of the iterative process of problem solving and automating these iterations can lead to much quicker solution 10  Social  These messages usually do not contribute to the process of problem solving but are expressions of, or comments on, etiquette. These messages include messages like thank you  you are welcome  Search the forum before asking etc  Table 6. Types of responses Types of Responses Instructional A better way to do this Code Small direct solution Step by step instructions Do this, this is the solution Informational Fixed in next version Not a problem for this product Re-directional Link to external resources Link to Internal Resources Link to Previous Thread Link to Wiki Read FAQ / Read the manual Innovative No can t do that but workaround This is what works for me Tips Speculation Suggestion for a solution Try this Verificational Me Too Explanatory Detailed Explanation Social Don t waste our time Negational I don t know Solicitation Background Info questions Clarification questions Give a screenshot History Details Repeat the question  5. Discussion It can be seen that although entirely volunteerbased, OSS technical help is on the whole remarkably timely and effective. However, this voluntary nature means that there is a substantial variance in both speed and effectiveness; posting a request is no guarantee that anyone will bother to reply, or reply in a reasonable time. Responsiveness shows a long tail effect. Also, there is inevitably a selection effect we are only seeing those people who go to the forums and ask for help. We don t see those who are unable unwilling or intimidated to ask for help in such a public way. We also don t see those who manage to get help from other sources on the website \(various documentation including help files, tutorials, blogs or wikis\ or from other less official sources. We also do not see those who get the information they need from simply reading pre-existing threads. However, we believe this is a useful start to understanding online technical help in general and OSS technical help in particular. Although a typical help-giving interaction might consist of a request, a reply containing a set of contextual questions to help clarify the problem, some problem-solving, one or more proposed solutions and comments on their efficacy, there are a number of other variant interactions. In other work we look at issues of media use and the use of external resources to support the help-giving, problem-solving and clarificatory processes. In this paper we note the kinds of questions and responses that commonly occur Although our current focus is on understanding OSS technical support and how it can be improved, we are interesting in future work in comparing the categorizations found here with other help-giving settings. Do the categorizations also apply in those other contexts The open source technical help forums obviously have similarities with open source technical development: open to all to participate, reliant on volunteers choosing to work on a particular need having emergent leadership arising in the form of a few core members who make disproportionately large contributions and a long tail of participants with smaller contributions. However, there are also differences. The barriers to participation are lower. It is typically easier to offer help on how to use an application than to recode that application. Some help particularly to novice users\ relatively easy to provide and does not require specialist knowledge Some help is simply a matter of pointing to preexisting resources that address the problem raised Other is a matter of explaining or re-contextualizing existing help so that the recipient can understand what they need to do Other requests are much more difficult, rather like the stumpers that skilled reference librarians relish as Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


worthy problem-solving challenges to their expertise s o r a com p aris on o f techn i cal h e lp w i t h th e  reference interview Online technical help predates the current growth of open-source software, and can be seen in various Usenet news forums for a range of technical areas aimed at both novices and expert users. Over time an etiquette of question asking and responding has evolved and continues to evolve. For example it is considered good manners to try and search for relevant help before asking, and to indicate in one s request that one has indeed done so Modern bulletin board functionalities and interfaces have been adopted by technical help websites to good effect. However it is worth considering how helpgiving could be made more effective. Many possible changes are non-technical, involving recruiting more help-givers and providing better education and orientation to both help-seekers and help-givers. But there are also technological interventions that might help, either by lowering the costs and effort of helpseeking or help-giving, improving their effectiveness supporting the development, refinement and re-use of help resources, or by feeding user-centered results back into the OSS development process. Here we list some examples, inspired by our analyses   Semi\Automation of contextual information to be supplied by the help-seeker. A good help request needs to provide information such as the hardware and operating system being used, the version of the application, what the user is trying to do, what has been tried \(and presumably failed\d which help resources have been completed. Much of this information could be obtained automatically if it was an option built into the application, and the rest might be supported, \(and the user encouraged to provide it by a suitably structured form   Support for refactoring a help request into a FAQ or online help documentation wiki   System support for volunteer updating of help taking a help explanation and updating it for a new version of the software   Lightweight measures of re-use. We know people are consulting 'dead' threads - would a simple 'this worked for me too' button get used The observations made in this study lay a path for improvement by highlighting the multiple uses that can be made of these interactions. Here we present some of the uses that we believe have strong potential of improving the current process. Help requests can be used as feedback for the redesign of both the system and its help. Some help requests are pointers to usability problems with the software and hence can be highlighted for analysis by the OSS User Interface team. They will have documented evidence of the users having problems with the application and can provide some quick semi-fixes to the interface and eventually produce longer more complex full solutions or design to obliterate the problem Creating a better visualization of the entire discussion database will facilitate the assessment of patterns of help requests, such as which parts of the system seem to cause disproportionate confusion. It could also allow organizational improvement through supporting queries such as   Show me all threads that point to a particular piece of documentation \(help, FAQ, etc   Bundling of threads: show all threads with a similar topic. Are they repeats? Can they be connected rejoined, or better tagged to avoid duplication and aid re-use  6. Future Work and Conclusion  Future work in this area could include triangulating these results with studies using alternative methods such as interviewing forum participan t h ese  categories are found to be significant then there maybe implications for design of support environments and their integration with both formal and static help sources \(such as manuals\ and with the software application itself. A wider issue is whether the findings are transferable to proprietary software or beyond software to physical products and services Extending the work in this way would help determine whether the nature of the OSS software and its community have an identifiable influence on the pattern of help-related activities We would also like to compare this process with other settings including other online technical help, inhouse technical forums, non technical help, technical discussions not purely help related and tech forums in Usenet, around mashups, etc. West & O Mahony compare autonomous and sponsored OSS communities in terms of software production, governance and intellectual property; it would be interesting to explore whether this dimension also influences user-support activities. A further extension could be to consider product-related forums to investigate how the nature of the topic \(software, physical product or service influences user contributions e w ill a l so be  conducting analysis on this data with respect to information re-use and tools to aid the process of reuse. We view this paper as an exploratory precursor to more detailed qualitative studies. In particular our methodology complements other approaches such as those based on questionnaire surveys terv ie w s   a m i n e d f r o m p u bl i c  m a i l i n g l i s t s 20]. We suggest that these methods on their own are unlikely to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


be sufficient for exploring in detail how online help actually unfolds In this paper we present some results about the content of online discussion support forums from a larger study. We have shown that the forums do not just contain straightforward help requests. We have presented a detailed list of categories of questions that are asked. We highlight the how of the process of problem solving by showing the different types of responses for problem questions and present a typology for these responses. This paper presents multiple pragmatic approaches to improve the process of collaborative problem solving in open source software by some quick fixes and by highlighting multiple points of inquiry for research  7. References 1  Butler, B. Sproull L  Kiesler S Kraut R. \(2002 Community Effort in Online Groups: Who Does the Work and Why In L. Atwater and S. Weisband Leadership at a Distance 2  Constant, D., Sproull, L. and Keisler, S. \(1996 The Kindness of Strangers: The Usefulness of Electronic Weak Ties for Technical  Advice  Organization Science, 7\(2\9-135 3  Glaser, B.G. and Strauss, A.L. \(1967 The discovery of grounded theory: strategies for qualitative research Chicago: Aldine 4  Granovetter, M. \(1973 The Strength of Weak Ties American Journal of Sociology, 78\(6\ 13601380 5  Lakhani, K. R. and von Hippel, E. \(2002 How Open Source Software Works Free User-to-User Assistance Research Policy, 32, 923-943 6  Lakhani, K.R. and Wolf, R.G. \(2003 Why hackers do what they do: Understanding motivation and effort in Free/Open Source software projects  Technical report, MIT Sloan School of Management 7  Lenz, V. \(1999 The Saturn Difference: Creating Customer Loyalty in Your Company New York Wiley 8  Longoria, J. \(1996 Focus on: help desk applications and technologies Telemarketing and Call Center Solutions, 148, 52-55 9  Maass, W. \(2004 Inside an Open Source Software Community: Emprical Analysis on Individual and Group Level Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Open Source Software Engineering, Edinburgh Scotland, 65-71 10  Mockus, A., Fiedling, R.T. and Andersen, J.D 2002 Two Case Studies of Open Source Software Development: Apache and Mozilla ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, 11 \(3\309-346 11  Nambisan, S. and Baron, R.A. \(2007 Interactions in virtual customer environments Implications for product support and customer relationship management Journal of Interactive Marketing, 21\(2\62 12  Neff, G. and David S. \(2002 Permanently Beta Responsive Organization in the Internet Era Center on Organizational Innovation, Working Paper Columbia University 13  Nichols, D.M. and Twidale, M.B. \(2003 The usability of open source software First Monday 8, 1 14  Nichols, D.M. and Twidale, M.B. \(2006 Usability processes in open source projects Software Process: Improvement and Practice, 11\(2\49 162 15  Novak, T., Hoffman, D. and Yung, Y. \(2000 Measuring the Customer Experience in Online Environments: A Structural Modeling Approach  Marketing Science, INFORMS, 19\(1\, 22-42 16  Preece, J., Maloney-Krichmar, D. and Abras, C 2003 History of Emergence of Online Communities In B. Wellman \(Ed.\cyclopedia of Community. Berkshire Publishing Group, Sage 17  Raymond, E.S. \(1998 The cathedral and the bazaar First Monday, 3\(3 18  Sandred, J. \(2001 Managing Open Source Projects Wiley 19  Singh, V., Twidale, M.B., and Rathi, D Open Source Technical Support: A look at peer to peer help giving HICSS-39, Hawaii, January 2006 20  Sowe, S.K., Stamelos, I., and Angelis, L. \(2008 Understanding knowledge sharing activities in free/open source software projects:An empirical study  Journal of Systems and Software 81\(3\31-446 21  Stewart, K.J. \(2004 OSS Project Success: From Internal Dynamics to External Impact Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Open Source Software Engineering, Edinburgh, Scotland, 92-97 22  Tourniaire, F. and Farrell, R. \(1997 The Art of Software Support Upper Saddle River, Prentice-Hall 23  Vixie, P. \(1999 Software engineering In Open Sources: Voices from the Open Source Revolution, C Dibona, S. Ockman, and M. Stone, Eds. Sebastopol CA: O Reilly, 91-100 24  Von Hippel E. \(1988 The Sources of Innovation New York: Oxford University Press 25  Weber, J. \(1999 The bottom line The Industry Standard, 5, August 2-9  26  West, J. and O'Mahony, S. \(2008 The Role of Participation Architecture in Growing Sponsored Open Source Communities Industry & Innovation 15\(2 145-168  27  Wiertz, C. and de Ruyter, K. \(2007 Beyond the Call of Duty: Why Customers Contribute to Firmhosted Commercial Online Communities  Organization Studies, 28\(3\47-376 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11 This model specifies that covariates act multiplicatively on time t r than on the hazar d function.  That is, we assume a baseline hazard function to exist and that the effects of the covariates are to alter the rate at which an individual proceeds along the time axis.  In other words, the covariates z accelerates or decelerates the time to failure Kalbfleisch and Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  It should be pointed out that the distribution-based regression models for exponential and Weibull distributions in the previous section are th e special cases of both PHM and AFT.  This correspondence is not necessarily true for models based on other distribu tions. Indeed, two-parameter Weibull distribution has the uniq ue property that it is closed under both multiplication of fa ilure time and multiplication of the hazard function by an arbitrary nonzero constant Lawless 2003, Kalbfleisch & Prentice 2002, Klein Moeschberger 2003  2.6. Counting Process and Survival Analysis   In the previous sections, we introduced censoring and survival analysis models th at can handle the censored information; however, we did not discuss how the censored information is processed.  Accommodating and maximally utilizing the partial information from the censored observations is the most challenging and also the most rewarding task in survival anal ysis.  This also establishes survival analysis as a unique fiel d in mathematical statistics Early statistical inferences for censored data in survival analysis were dependent on asymptotic likelihood theory Severini 2000\ Cox \(1972, 1975\ proposed partial likelihood as an extension to classical maximum likelihood estimation in the context of hi s proportional hazards model as a major contribution. Asymptotic likelihood has been and still is the dominant theory for developing survival analysis inference and hypothesis testing methods \(Klein and Moeschberger 2003, Severini 2000\. There are many monographs and textbooks of survival analysis containing sufficient details for applying survival analysis \(Cox and Oakes 1984, Kalbfleisch and Prentice 1980, 2002, Lawless 1982, 2003, Klein and Moeschberger, 2003\. A problem with traditional asymptotic lik elihood theory is that the resulting procedures can become very complicated when handling more complex censoring mechanisms \(Klein Moeschberger 2003\. A more elegant but requiring rigorous measure-theoretic probability theo ry is the approach with counting stochastic processes and the Martingale central limit theorems.  Indeed, this approach was used by Aalen 1975\ to set the rigorous mathematical foundation for survival analysis, and later further developed and summarized by Fleming and Harrington \(1991\, Andersen et al. \(1993\several research papers.  In reliability theory Aven and Jensen \(1999\ dem onstrated such an approach by developing a general failure model, which we briefly introduced in Section 1.2. However, the counting process and Martingale approach require measure theoretic treatments of probability and st ochastic processes, which is often not used in engineering or applied statistics.  A detailed introduction of the topic is obviously beyond the scope of this paper, and we only present a brief sketch of the most important concepts involved.  Readers are referred to the excellent monographs by Andersen et al. \(1993 Fleming and Harrington \(1991\ Aven and Jensen \(1999\ for comprehensive details, and Kal bfleisch and Prentice \(2002 Klein and Moeschberger \(2003\, Lawless \(2003\ for more applicationñoriented treatments The following discussion on this topic is drawn from Klein and Moeschberger \(2003  A counting stochastic process N  t  t 0 possesses the properties that N  0 ro and N  t   with probability one. The sample paths of N  t ht continuous and piecewise constant with jumps of size 1  step function In a right-censored sample, \(we assume only right censoring in this section N i  t  I  T i t  i   which keep the value 0 until individual i fails and then jump to 1  are counting processes. The accumulation of N i  t ocess     1 t N t N n i i is again a counting process, which counts the number of failures in the sample at or before time t   The counting process keeps track of the information on the occurrences of events,   for instance, the history information such as which individual was censored prior to time t and which individual died at or prior to time t as well as the covariates information This accumulated history information of the counting process at time t is termed filtration at time t denoted by F t For a given problem F t  rests on the observer of the counting process.  Thus, two observers with different recordings at different times will get different filtrations.  This is what Aven and Jensen 1999\ referred to as different information levels or the amount of actual available information about the state of a system may vary  If the failure times X i and censoring times C i  are independent,  then the probability of an event occurs at time t given the history just prior to t  F t\n be expressed as  t T if dt t h t C t X dt t C dt t X t P F dt t T t P i i i i i i r t i i r          1     t T if F dt t T t P i t i i r 0   1    51  Let dN  t be the change in the process N  t over a short time interval    t t t Ignoring the neglig ible chance of ties 1   t dN if a failure occurred and 0   t dN otherwise  Let Y  t denote the number of individuals with an observation time T i t Then the conditional expectation of dN  t   dt t h t Y F dt t C dt t X t with ns observatio of number E F t dN E t i i i t              52 


 12 The process  t  Y  t  h  t  is called the intensity process  of the counting process.  It is a stochastic process that is determined by the information contained in the history process F t via Y  t  Y  t  records the number of individuals experiencing the risk at a given time t   As it will become clear that   t is equivalent to the failure rate or hazard function in tr aditional reliability theory, but here it is treated as a stochastic process, the most general form one can assume for it. It is this generalization that encapsulates the power that counting stochastic process approach can offer to survival analysis  Let the cumulative intensity process H  t be defined as   t t ds s t H 0 0      53  It has the property that  E  N  t  F t  E  H  t  F t  H  t   54  This implies that filtration F t, is known, the value of Y  t  fixed and H  t es deterministic H  t is equivalent to the cumulative hazards in tr aditional reliability theory  A stochastic process with the property that its expectation at time t given history at time s < t is equal to its value at s is called a martingale That is M  t martingale if           t s s M F t M E s  55  It can be verified that the stochastic process         t H t N t M 56  is a martingale, and it is called the counting process martingale The increments of the counting process martingale have an expected value of zero, given its filtration F t That is  0      t F t dM E 57 The first part of the counting process martingale [Equation 56  N  t non-decreasing step function.  The second part H  t smooth process which is predictable in that its value at time t is fixed just prior to time t It is known as the compensator  of the counting process and is a random function. Therefore, the martingale can be considered as mean-zero noise and that is obtainable when one subtracts the smoothly varying compensator from the counting process  Another key component in the counting process and martingale theory for survival analysis is the notion of the predictable variation process of M  t oted by    t M It is defined as the compensator of process   2 t M  The term predictable variation process comes from the property that, for a martingale M  t it can be verified that the conditional variance of the increments of M  t  dM  t  h e inc r em ents of   t M That is          t M d F t dM Var t  58  To obtain      t F t dM Var  one needs the random variable N  t  variable with probability   t of having a jump of size 1 at time t The variance of N  t   t  1 t   since it follows b i nom ial distribution    Ignoring the ties in the censored data 2  t  is close to zero and Var  dM  t  F t    t  Y  t  h  t   This implies that the counting process N  t on the filtration F t behaves like a Poisson process with rate  t    Why do we need to convert the previous very intuitive concepts in survival analysis in to more abstract martingales The key is that many of the sta tistics in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of the basic martingales described above The stochastic integral equations are mathematically well structured and some standard mathematical techniques for studying them can be adopted  Here, let   t K be a predictable  process An example of a predictable process is the process   t Y Over the interval 0 to t the stochastic integral of su ch a process, with respect to a martingale, is denoted by     0 u dM u K t It turns out that such stochastic integrals them selves are martingales as a function of t and their predictable variation process can be found from the predictable variation process of the original martingale by           0 2 0 u M d u K u dM u K t t 59 The above discussion was drawn from Klein and Moeschberger \(2003 also provide examples of how the above process is applied. In the following, we briefly introduce one of their exampl es ó the derivation of the Nelson-Aalen cumulative hazard estimator  First, the model is formulated as           t dM dt t h t Y t dN  60  If   t Y is non-zero, then               t Y t dM t d t h t Y t dN 61  Let   t I be the indicator of whether   t Y  is positive and define 0/0 = 0, then integrating both sides of above \(61 One get 


 13                     0 0 0 u dM u Y u I u d u h u I u dN u Y u I t t t 62  The left side integral is the Nelson-Aalen estimator of H t           0  u dN u Y u I t H t 63  The second integral on the right side           0 u dM u Y u I t W t 64  is the stochastic integral of the predictable process      u Y u I with respect to a martingale, and hence is also a martingale  The first integral on the right side is a random quantity    t H   t du u h u I t H 0        65  For right-censored data it is equal to   t H  in the data range, if the stochastic uncertainty in the   t W is negligible Therefore, the statistic    t H is a nonparametric estimator of the random quantity    t H   We would like to mention one more advantage of the new approach, that is, the martingale central limit theorem.  The central limit theorem of martingales ensures certain convergence property and allows the derivations of confidence intervals for many st atistics.  In summary, most of the statistics developed with asymptotic likelihood theory in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of some martingale.  The large sample properties of the statistics can be found by using the predictable variation process and martingale central limit theorem \(Klein and Moeschberger \(2003  2.7. Bayesian Survival Analysis  Like many other fields of statistics, survival analysis has also witnessed the rapid expansion of the Bayesian paradigm.  The introduction of the full-scale Bayesian paradigm is relative recent and occurred in the last decade however, the "invasion" has been thorough.  Until the recent publication of a monograph by Ibrahim, Chen and Sinhaet 2005\val anal ysis has been either missing or occupy at most one chapter in most survival analysis monographs and textbooks.  Ibrahim's et al. \(2005\ changed the landscape, with their comprehensive discussion of nearly every counterp arts of frequentist survival analysis from univariate to multivariate, from nonparametric, semiparametric to parametric models, from proportional to nonproportional hazards models, as well as the joint model of longitudinal and survival data.  It should be pointed out that Bayesian survival analysis has been studied for quite a while and can be traced back at least to the 1970s  A natural but fair question is what advantages the Bayesian approach can offer over the established frequentist survival analysis. Ibrahim et al 2005\entified two key advantages. First, survival models are generally very difficult to fit, due to the complex likelihood functions to accommodate censoring.  A Bayesi an approach may help by using the MCMC techniques and there is available software e.g., BUGS.  Second, the Bayesian paradigm can incorporate prior information in a natural way by using historical information, e.g., from clinical trials. The following discussion in this subsection draws from Ibrahim's et al. \(2005  The Bayesian paradigm is based on specifying a probability model for the observed data, given a vector of unknown parameters This leads to likelihood function L   D   Unlike in traditional statistics is treated as random and has a prior distribution denoted by   Inference concerning is then based on the posterior distribution which can be computed by Bayes theorem d D L D L D              66 where is the parameter space  The term    D is proportional to the likelihood    D L  which is the information from observed data, multiplied by the prior, which is quantified by   i.e          D L D 67 The denominator integral m  D s the normalizing constant of    D and often does not have an analytic closed form Therefore    D often has to be computed numerically The Gibbs sampler or other MCMC algorithms can be used to sample    D without knowing the normalizing constant m  D xist large amount of literature for solving the computational problems of m  D nd    D   Given that the general Bayesian algorithms for computing the posterior distributions should equally apply to Bayesian survival analysis, the specification or elicitation of informative prior needs much of the atte ntion.  In survival analysis with covariates such as Cox's proportional hazards model, the most popular choice of informative prior is the normal prior, and the most popular choice for noninformative is the uniform Non-informative prior is easy to use but they cannot be used in all applications, such as model selection or model comparison. Moreover, noninformative prior does not harness the real prior information. Therefore, res earch for informative prior specification is crucial for Bayesian survival analysis  


 14 Reliability estimation is influenced by the level of information available such as information on components or sub-systems. Bayesians approach is likely to provide such flexibility to accommodate various levels of information Graves and Hamada \(2005\roduced the YADAS a statistical modeling environment that implements the Bayesian hierarchical modeli ng via MCMC computation They showed the applications of YADES in reliability modeling and its flexibility in processing hierarchical information. Although this environment seems not designed with Bayesian surviv al analysis, similar package may be the direction if Bayesian survival analysis is applied to reliability modeling  2.8. Spatial Survival Analysis  To the best of our knowledge spatial survival analysis is an uncharted area, and there has been no spatial survival analysis reported with rigor ous mathematical treatment There are some applications of survival analysis to spatial data; however, they do not address the spatial process which in our opinion should be the essential aspect of any spatial survival analysis. To develop formal spatial survival analysis, one has to define the spatial process first  Recall, for survival analysis in the time domain, there is survival function   R t t T t S  Pr   68  where T is the random variable and S  t e cumulative probability that the lifetime will exceed time t In spatial domain, what is the counterpart of t One may wonder why do not we simply define the survival function in the spatial domain as   S  s  Pr S s  s R d  R > 0  69  where s is some metric for d-dimensional space R d and the space is restricted to the positive region S is the space to event measurement, e.g., the distance from some origin where we detect some point object.  The problem is that the metric itself is an attribute of space, rather than space itself Therefore, it appears to us that the basic entity for studying the space domain has to be broader than in the time domain This is probably why spatial process seems to be a more appropriate entity for studying  The following is a summary of descriptions of spatial processes and patterns, which intends to show the complexity of the issues involved.  It is not an attempt to define the similar survival function in spatial domain because we certainly unders tand the huge complexity involved. There are several monographs discussing the spatial process and patterns \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\.  The following discussion heavily draws from Cressie \(1993\ and Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  It appears that the most widely adopted definition for spatial process is proposed in Cressie \(1993\, which defines a spatial process Z  s in d-dimensions as    Z  s  s D R d  70  Here Z  s denotes the attributes we observe, which are space dependent. When d = 2 the space R 2 is a plane  The problem is how to define randomness in this process According to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005 Z  s an be thought of as located \(indexed\by spatial coordinates s  s 1  s 2  s n  the counterpart of time series Y  t  t   t 1  t 2  t n   indexed by time.  The spatial process is often called random field   To be more explicit, we denote Z  s  Z  s   to emphasize that Z is the outcome of a random experiment  A particular realization of produces a surface    s Z  Because the surface from whic h the samples are drawn is the result of the random experiment Z  s called a random function  One might ask what is a random experiment like in a spatial domain? Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\ offered an imaginary example briefly described below.  Imagine pouring sand from a bucket on to a desktop surface, and one is interested in measuring the depth of the poured sand at various locations, denoted as Z  s The sand distributes on the surface according to the laws of physics.  With enough resources and patience, one can develop a deterministic model to predict exactly how the sand grains are distributed on the desktop surface.  This is the same argument used to determine the head-tail coin flipping experiment, which is well accepted in statistical scie nce. The probabilistic coinflip model is more parsimonious than the deterministic model that rests on the exact \(perfect\but hardly feasible representation of a coin's physics. Similarly deterministically modeling the placement of sand grains is equally daunting.  However, th e issue here is not placement of sand as a random event, as Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\phasized.  The issue is that the sand was poured only once regardless how many locations one measures the depth of the sand.  With that setting, the challenge is how do we define and compute the expectation of the random function Z  s Would E  Z  s   s  make sense  Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\further raised the questions: \(1\to what distribution is the expectation being computed? \(2\ if the random experiment of sand pouring can only be counted once, ho w can the expectation be the long-term average  According to the definition of expectation in traditional statistics, one should repeat the process of sand pouring many times and consider the probability distributions of all surfaces generated from the repetitions to compute the expectation of Z  s is complication is much more serious 


 15 than what we may often reali ze. Especially, in practice many spatial data is obtained from one time space sample only. There is not any independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  How is the enormous complexity in spatial statistics currently dealt with? The most commonly used simplification, which has also been vigorously criticized, is the stationarity assumption.  Opponents claim that stationarity often leads to erroneous inferences and conclusions.  Proponents counte r-argue that little progress can be made in the study of non-stationary process, without a good understanding of the stationary issues Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  The strict stationarity is a random field whose spatial distribution is invariant under translation of the coordination.  In other word s, the process repeats itself throughout its domain \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005 There is also a second-order or weak\ of a random field  For random fields in the spatial domain, the model of Equation \(70  Z  s  s D R d  is still too general to allow statistical inference.  It can be decomposed into several sub-processes \(Cressie 1993             s s s W s s Z  D s  71  where  s  E  Z  is a deterministic mean structure called large-scale variation W  s is the zero-mean intrinsically stationary process, \(with second order derivative\nd it is called smooth small-scale variation   s is the zero-mean stationary process independent of W  s and is called microscale variation  s  is zero-mean white noise also called measurement error. This decomposition is not unique and is largely operational in nature \(Cressie 1993\he main task of a spatial algorithm is to determine the allocations of the large, small, and microscale components However, the form of the above equation is fixed Cressie 1993\, implying that it is not appropriate to sub-divide one or more of the items. Therefore, the key issue here is to obtain the deterministic  s  but in practice, especially with limited data, it is usually very difficult to get a unique  s   Alternative to the spatial domain decomposition approach the frequency domain methods or spectral analysis used in time series analysis can also be used in spatial statistics Again, one may refer to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  So, what are the imp lications of the general discussion on spatial process above to spatial survival analysis?  One point is clear, Equation \(69 S  s  Pr S s   s R d is simply too naive to be meaningful.  There seem, at least, four fundamental challenges when trying to develop survival analysis in space domain. \(1\ process is often multidimensional, while time pr ocess can always be treated as uni-dimensional in the sense that it can be represented as  Z  t  t R 1  The multidimensionality certainly introduces additional complications, but that is still not the only complication, perhaps not even the most significant 2\One of the fundamental complications is the frequent lack of independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process, as pointed out by Cressie \(1993\\(3\e superposition of \(1 and \(2\brings up even more complexity, since coordinates  s of each replication are a set of stochastic spatial process rather than a set of random variables. \(4\n if the modeling of the spatial process is separable from the time process, it is doubtful how useful the resulting model will be.  In time process modeling, if a population lives in a homogenous environment, the space can be condensed as a single point.  However, the freezing of time seems to leave out too much information, at least for survival analysis Since the traditional survival analysis is essentially a time process, therefore, it should be expanded to incorporate spatial coordinates into original survival function.  For example, when integrating space and time, one gets a spacetime process, such as          R t R D s t s Z d   where s is the spatial index \(coordinate t is time.  We may define the spatial-temporal survival function as   S  s  t  Pr T t  s D  72  where D is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidean space That is, the spatial-temporal survival function represents the cumulative probability that an individual will survive up to time T within hyperspace D which is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidian space.  One may define different scales for D or even divide D into a number of unit hyperspaces of measurement 1 unit  2.9. Survival Analysis and Artificial Neural Network   In the discussion on artificial neuron networks \(ANN Robert & Casella \(2004\noted, "Baring the biological vocabulary and the idealistic connection with actual neurons, the theory of neuron networks covers: \(1\odeling nonlinear relations between explanatory and dependent explained\ariables; \(2\mation of the parameters of these models based on a \(training\ sample."  Although Robert & Casella \(2004\ did not mentioned survival analysis, their notion indeed strike us in that the two points are also the essence of Cox s \(1972\roportional Hazards model  We argue that the dissimilarity might be superficial.  One of the most obvious differences is that ANN usually avoids probabilistic modeling, however, the ANN models can be analyzed and estimated from a statistical point of view, as demonstrated by Neal \(1999\, Ripley \(1994\, \(1996 Robert & Casella \(2004\What is more interesting is that the most hailed feature of ANN, i.e., the identifiability of model structure, if one review carefully, is very similar to the work done in survival anal ysis for the structure of the 


 16 Cox proportional hazards model. The multilayer ANN model, also known as back-propagation ANN model, is again very similar to the stratified proportional hazards model  There are at least two advantages of survival analysis over the ANN.  \(1\val analysis has a rigorous mathematical foundation. Counting stochastic processes and the Martingale central limit theory form the survival analysis models as stochastic integral s, which provide insight for analytic solutions. \(2\ ANN, simulation is usually necessary \(Robert & Casella \(2004\which is not the case in survival analysis  Our conjecture may explain a very interesting phenomenon Several studies have tried to integrate ANN with survival analysis.  As reviewed in the next section, few of the integrated survival analysis and ANN made significant difference in terms of model fittings, compared with the native survival analysis alone The indifference shows that both approaches do not complement each other.  If they are essentially different, the inte grated approach should produce some results that are signifi cantly different from the pure survival analysis alone, either positively or negatively Again, we emphasize that our discussion is still a pure conjecture at this stage   3   B RIEF C ASE R EVIEW OF S URVIVAL A NALYSIS A PPLICATIONS     3.1. Applications Found in IEEE Digital Library  In this section, we briefly review the papers found in the IEEE digital library w ith the keyword of survival analysis  search. The online search was conducted in the July of 2007, and we found about 40 papers in total. There were a few biomedical studies among the 40 survival-analysis papers published in IEEE publications. These are largely standard biomedical applications and we do not discuss these papers, for obvious reasons  Mazzuchi et al. \(1989\m ed to be the first to actively  advocate the use of Cox's \(1 972\ proportional hazards model \(PHM\in engineering re liability.  They quoted Cox's 1972\ original words industrial reliability studies and medical studies to show Cox's original motivation Mazzuchi et al \(1989 while this model had a significant impact on the biom edical field, it has received little attention in the reliability literature Nearly two decades after the introducti on paper of Mazzuchi et al 1989\ears that little significant changes have occurred in computer science and IEEE related engineering fields with regard to the proportional hazards models and survival analysis as a whole  Stillman et al. \(1995\used survival analysis to analyze the data for component maintenance and replacement programs Reineke et al. \(1998 ducted a similar study for determining the optimal maintenance by simulating a series system of four components Berzuini and Larizza \(1996 integrated time-series modeling with survival analysis for medical monitoring.  Kauffman and Wang \(2002\analyzed the Internet firm su rvival data from IPO \(initial public offer to business shutdown events, with survival analysis models  Among the 40 survival analysis papers, which we obtained from online search of the IEEE digital library, significant percentage is the integration of survival analysis with artificial neural networks \(ANN In many of these studies the objective was to utilize ANN to modeling fitting or parameter estimation for survival analysis.  The following is an incomplete list of the major ANN survival analysis integration papers found in IEEE digital library, Arsene et 2006 Eleuteri et al. \(2003\oa and Wong \(2001\,  Mani et al 1999\ The parameter estimation in survival analysis is particular complex due to the requirements for processing censored observations. Therefore, approach such as ANN and Bayesian statistics may be helpful to deal with the complexity. Indeed, Bayesian survival analysis has been expanded significantly in recent years \(Ibrahim, et al. 2005  We expect that evolutionary computing will be applied to survival analysis, in similar way to ANN and Bayesian approaches  With regard to the application of ANN to survival analysis we suggest three cautions: \(1\he integrated approach should preserve the capability to process censoring otherwise, survival analysis loses its most significant advantage. \(2\ Caution should be taken when the integrated approach changes model struct ure because most survival analysis models, such as Cox's proportional hazards models and accelerated failure time models, are already complex nonlinear models with built-in failure mechanisms.  The model over-fitting may cause model identifiability  problems, which could be very subtle and hard to resolve 3\he integrated approach does not produce significant improvement in terms of model fitting or other measurements, which seemed to be the case in majority of the ANN approach to survival analysis, then the extra complication should certainly be avoided. Even if there is improvement, one should still take caution with the censor handling and model identifiability issues previously mentioned in \(1\ and \(2  3.2. Selected Papers Found in MMR-2004  In the following, we briefly review a few survival analysis related studies presented in a recent International Conference on Mathematical Methods in Reliability, MMR 2004 \(Wilson et al. 2005  Pena and Slate \(2005\ddressed the dynamic reliability Both reliability and survival times are more realistically described with dynamic models. Dynamic models generally refer to the models that incorporate the impact of actions or interventions as well as thei r accumulative history, which 


 17 can be monitored \(Pena and Slate 2005\he complexity is obviously beyond simple regression models, since the dependence can play a crucial ro le. For example, in a loadsharing network system, failure of a node will increase the loads of other nodes and influences their failures  Duchesne \(2005\uggested incorporating usage accumulation information into the regression models in survival analysis.  To simplify the model building Duchesne \(2005\umes that the usage can be represented with a single time-dependent covariate.  Besides reviewing the hazard-based regression models, which are common in survival analysis, Duchesne 2005\viewed three classes of less commonly used regression models: models based on transfer functionals, models based on internal wear and the so-called collapsible models. The significance of these regression models is that they expand reliability modeling to two dimensions. One dimension is the calendar time and the other is the usage accumulation.  Jin \(2005\ reviewed the recent development in statisti cal inference for accelerated failure time \(AFT\odel and the linear transformation models that include Cox proportional hazards model and proportional odds models as special cases. Two approaches rank-based approach and l east-squares approach were reviewed in Jin \(2005\. Osbo rn \(2005\d a case study of utilizing the remote diagnostic data from embedded sensors to predict system aging or degradation.  This example should indicate the potential of survival analysis and competing risks analysis in the prognostic and health management PHM\ since the problem Osborn \(2005 addressed is very similar to PHM. The uses of embedded sensors to monitor the health of complex systems, such as power plants, automobile, medical equipment, and aircraft engine, are common. The main uses for these sensor data are real time assessment of th e system health and detection of the problems that need immediate attention.  Of interest is the utilization of those remote diagnostic data, in combination with historical reliability data, for modeling the system aging or degradation. The biggest challenge with this task is the proper transformation of wear  time The wear is not only influenced by internal \(temperature, oil pressures etc\xternal covariates ambient temperature, air pressure, etc\, but also different each time   4  S UMMARY AND P ERSPECTIVE   4.1. Summary  Despite the common foundation with traditional reliability theory, such as the same probability definitions for survival function  S  t  and reliability  R  t  i.e  S  t  R  t well as the hazards function the exact same term and definition are used in both fields\rvival analysis has not achieved similar success in the field of reliability as in biomedicine The applications of survival analysis seem still largely limited to the domain of biomedicine.  Even in the sister fields of biomedicine such as biology and ecology, few applications have been conducted \(Ma 1997, Ma and Bechinski 2008\ the engin eering fields, the Meeker and Escobar \(1998\ monograph, as well as the Klein and Goel 1992\ to be the most comprehensive treatments  In Section 2, we reviewed the essential concepts and models of survival analysis. In Section 3, we briefly reviewed some application cases of survival analysis in engineering reliability.  In computer science, survival analysis seems to be still largely unknown.  We believe that the potential of survival analysis in computer science is much broader than network and/or software reliability alone. Before suggesting a few research topics, we no te two additional points  First, in this article, we exclusively focused on univariate survival analysis. There are two other related fields: one is competing risks analysis and the other is multivariate survival analysis The relationship between multivariate survival analysis and survival analysis is similar to that between multivariate statistical analysis and mathematical statistics.  The difference is that the extension from univariate to multivariate in survival analysis has been much more difficult than the developm ent of multivariate analysis because of \(1\rvation cens oring, and \(2\pendency which is much more complex when multivariate normal distribution does not hold in survival data.  On the other hand, the two essential differences indeed make multivariate survival analysis unique and ex tremely useful for analyzing and modeling time-to-event data. In particular, the advantages of multivariate survival analysis in addressing the dependency issue are hardly matched by any other statistical method.  We discuss competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis in separate articles \(Ma and Krings 2008a, b, & c  The second point we wish to note is: if we are asked to point out the counterpart of survival analysis model in reliability theory, we would suggest the shock or damage model.   The shock model has an even longer history than survival analysis and the simplest shock model is the Poisson process model that leads to exponential failure rate model The basic assumption of the shock model is the notion that engineered systems endure some type of wear, fatigue or damage, which leads to the failure when the strengths exceed the tolerance limits of th e system \(Nakagawa 2006 There are extensive research papers on shock models in the probability theory literature, but relatively few monographs The monograph by Nakagawa \(2006\s to be the latest The shock model is often formulated as a Renewal stochastic process or point process with Martingale theory The rigorous mathematical derivation is very similar to that of survival analysis from counting stochastic processes  which we briefly outlined in section 2.6  It is beyond the scope of the paper to compare the shock model with survival analysis; however, we would like to make the two specific comments. \(1\Shock models are essentially the stochastic process model to capture the failure mechanism based on the damage induced on the system by shocks, and the resulting statistical models are 


 18 often the traditional reliability distribution models such as exponential and Weibull failure distributions.  Survival analysis does not depend on specific shock or damage Instead, it models the failure with abstract time-to-event random variables.  Less restrictive assumptions with survival analysis might be more useful for modeling software reliability where the notions of fatigue, wear and damage apparently do not apply.  \(2\hock models do not deal with information censoring, the trademark of failure time data.  \(3\ Shock models, perhaps due to mathematical complexity, have not been applied widely in engineering reliability yet.  In contrast, the applications of survival analysis in biomedical fields are much extensive.  While there have been about a dozen monographs on survival analysis available, few books on shock models have been published.  We believe that survival analysis and shock models are complementary, a nd both are very needed for reliability analysis, with shock model more focused on failure mechanisms and the survival analysis on data analysis and modeling  4.2. Perspective   Besides traditional industrial and hardware reliability fields we suggest that the following fields may benefit from survival analysis  Software reliability Survival analysis is not based on the assumptions of wear, fatigue, or damage, as in traditional reliability theory.  This seems close to software reliability paradigm. The single biggest challenge in applying above discussed approaches to softwa re systems is the requirement for a new metric that is able to replace the survival time variable in survival analysis. This "time" counterpart needs to be capable of characterizing the "vulnerability" of software components or the system, or the distance to the next failure event. In other words, this software metric should represent the metric-to-event, similar to time-toevent random variable in survival analysis.  We suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(Li and Vitanyi 1997\n be a promising candidate. Once the metric-to-event issue is resolved, survival analysis, both univariate and multivariate survival analysis can be applied in a relative straightforward manner. We suggest that the shared frailty models are most promising because we believ e latent behavior can be captured with the shared fra ilty \(Ma and Krings 2008b  There have been a few applications of univariate survival analysis in software reliability modeling, including examples in Andersen et al.'s \(1995\ classical monograph However, our opinion is that without the fundamental shift from time-to-event to new metric-to-event, the success will be very limited. In software engineering, there is an exception to our claim, which is the field of software test modeling, where time variable may be directly used in survival analysis modeling  Modeling Survivability of Computer Networks As described in Subsection 2.3, random censoring may be used to model network survivability.  This modeling scheme is particularly suitable for wireless sensor network, because 1\ of the population nature of wireless nodes and \(2\ the limited lifetime of the wireless nodes.  Survival analysis has been advanced by the needs in biomedical and public health research where population is th e basic unit of observation As stated early, a sensor networ k is analogically similar to a biological population. Furthermore, both organisms and wireless nodes are of limited lifetimes. A very desirable advantage of survival analysis is that one can develop a unified mathematical model for both the reliability and survivability of a wireless sensor network \(Krings and Ma 2006  Prognostic and Health Management in Military Logistics PHM involves extensive modeling analysis related to reliability, life predictions, failure analysis, burnin elimination and testing, quality control modeling, etc Survival analysis may provide very promising new tools Survival analysis should be able to provide alternatives to the currently used mathematical tools such as ANN, genetic algorithms, and Fuzzy logic.  The advantage of survival analysis over the other alternatives lies in its unique capability to handle information censoring.  In PHM and other logistics management modeling, information censoring is a near universal phenomenon. Survival analysis should provide new insights and modeling solutions   5  R EFERENCES   Aalen, O. O. 1975. Statistical inference for a family of counting process. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Berkeley  Andersen, P. K., O. Borgan, R D. Gill, N. Keiding. 1993 Statistical Models based on Counting Process. Springer  Arsene, C. T. C., et al. 2006.  A Bayesian Neural Network for Competing Risks Models with Covariates. MEDSIP 2006. Proc. of IET 3rd International Conference On Advances in Medical, Signal and Info. 17-19 July 2006  Aven, T. and U. Jensen. 1999. Stochastic Models in Reliability. Springer, Berlin  Bazovsky, I. 1961. Reliability Theory and Practice Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey  Bakker, B. and T.  Heskes. 1999. A neural-Bayesian approach to survival analysis. IEE Artificial Neural Networks, Sept. 7-10, 1999. Conference Publication No 470. pp832-837  Berzuini, C.  and C. Larizza 1996. A unified approach for modeling longitudinal and failure time data, with application in medical mon itoring. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. Vol. 18\(2 123 


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


