Vote Selling Voter Anonymity and Forensic Logging of Electronic Voting Machines Sean Peisert and Matt Bishop Department of Computer Science University of California Davis  peisert,bishop  cs.ucdavis.edu Alec Yasinsac School of Computer and Information Sciences University of South Alabama yasinsac@usouthal.edu Abstract Much recent work has focused on the process of auditing the results of elections Little work has 
focused on auditing the e-voting systems currently in use The facilities for doing the former include the voter-veriìed paper audit trail unfortunately that VVPAT is not particularly helpful in tracking down the source of errors within e-voting systems This paper discusses the need for a detailed forensic audit trail FAT to enable auditors to analyze the actions of e-voting systems in order to demonstrate either the absence of problems or to nd the causes of problems We also discuss methods to prevent the use of the FAT as a covert channel 
for violating the necessary properties of secrecy of the ballot so voters cannot sell their votes and anonymity of the ballot so a third party cannot associate a particular ballot with the voter who cast it 1 Introduction Highly public examples of electronic voting machine meltdowns in the United States continue to occur and independent post mortem analyses of the machines including those used in the U.S states of California Florida and Ohio 
6 7 11 16 unearth a w a fter a w t hat demonstrate the lack of high assurance techniques in the development processes used by voting system vendors and the poor quality of the standards they must meet The intent of valid registered voters recorded anonymously on a ballot and counted by election ocials must be inviolate There is no reason why this cannot be so However there is also no one solution The U.S National Institute of Standards and Technologyês 
NIST 2007 Voluntary Voting System Guidelines VVSG t ial r equiremen t s f or design and testingÑwill undoubtedly help somewhat if enacted and appear to be headed in the right direction In this paper we focus on one key element of electronic voting machinesÑforensic logging and auditingÑthat in concert with other elements of the VVSG2007 would signiìcantly help determine and ensure the correct operation of electronic voting machines and thus ultimately more fair and accurate elections Forensic logging has long been deemed as an 
essential element of maintaining and validating security 2 8 M ore r ecen tly  Y a sinsac and Bishop discussed why and how forensic audit trails are essential to validating the correct operation of electronic voting machines 27 i n a ddition to red teaming a nd co de analysis 29 F urther they discussed how voter receipts are not sucient as audit trails Forensic logging of the voting machine system needs to be performed At face value auditing seems to be a simple 
well-deìned term Unfortunately as the complexity of the system increases so does the complexity of auditing Given the often conîicting laws and requirements of elections auditing elections is very dicult Further there are no widely accepted fundamental election-auditing standards Therefore election ocials break new ground with each audit that they conduct However there is a key complication in logging on electronic voting machines if enough data is logged in order to analyze when and how a vot 
ing machine is operating incorrectly how can vote selling and voter anonymity related to voter coercion be prevented By law in most states in the United States even an election ocial or forensic analyst performing a post mortem audit or recount should not be able to determine how a particular Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


voter voted The analyst should only be able to analyze the correctness of the machine and the election ocial should only be able to conduct a recount but not associate those votes with particular voters For example in Florida the initial results for an election for the Congressional District 13 CD13 showed an anomaly the number of undervotes 1 was an order of magnitude higher than expected for such a high-proìle contentious race Further the same anomaly occurred in only one other race out of 25 As there were no voterveriìed paper audit trails VVPATs associated with the machines the dispute was whether the voting machines correctly recorded the votes that the voters intended to cast Some believed that the voters did indeed cast their votes for the race and so the source of the undervotes was malfunctioning voting machines Others thought that the contentiousness of the race had caused voters to skip that particular race A widely accepted explanation is that poor ballot design caused voters to miss the CD13 race on the ballot Still there is little physical evidence to support any hypothesis The State of Florida audited the election Part of that audit involved dynamic testing of the voting machines to see if any problems not revealed before the election arose in this postelection testing A second part involved a source code audit of the voting system to determine if any software vulnerabilities or aws could have caused or contributed to the undervotes The audit concluded that the examined software did not cause or contribute to that problem During the analysis the investigators commented that if the machines had a VVPAT that the VVPAT audit trail would have been of little help in the analysis If the VVPAT showed the undervote it would be echoing the current results and again the question would arise whether the undervote was due to the voter not casting a vote for the particular race or was due to a programming error exactly the situation without a VVPAT However if the VVPAT showed the voter having cast a vote for the race and the electronic count showed an undervote then the investigators would know that an inconsistency occurred either beforethevotewasprinted\(inthecasewherea voter did not vote and the VVPAT said she had or after he vote was printed in the case where a  1 An undervote is when a ballot is cast with no valid selection for a particular race voter voted and the electronic record of the ballot said she had not Thus the VVPAT could have conìrmed that a problem existed without providing any guidance on the cause of the problem What auditing mechanisms would be useful to provide the information necessary to audit the system in a way that would uncover problems such as this Speciìcally what are the precise points in the system at which audit mechanisms should be placed and what data should those audit mechanisms record For example which system and/or function calls should b e sa v e d A t this p o in t these are all open research questions The proper use of appropriate data gathering mechanisms would enhance both security and integrity because they could be used to track events on the system to detect malicious activity security as well as tampering alterations and errors involving the recording and counting of votes integrity We call the log generated by these mechanisms a forensic audit trail FAT to distinguish it from the voter-veriìed audit trail VVPAT But collecting a FAT also leads to a problem Consider George who wants to sell his vote John says that he will pay George if George votes for a certain Presidential candidate named Thomas John tells George to vote for Thomas by rst voting for James then changing his vote to Andrew then back to James then to Thomas This sequence of votes James/Andrew/James/Thomas is highly unlikely to be accidental If John sees this sequence in a FAT he can guess that George probably cast that vote This type of communication uses a covert channel or a path through which people can communicate but that was not designed for such communication This type of messaging is anathema to the U.S election system in general because it enables the selling of votes Any FAT must guard against this problem In this paper we focus on the two key issues of forensic logging of an electronic voting machine recording enough data to evaluate the operation of a voting machine but doing so in a way that disallows any manner of reverse-engineering the vote to a voter by using the audit trail 2 Background 2.1 Forensics Logging the appropriate data and analyzing it is hard even without anonymity requirements OpProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


timizing and correlating the data that is being logged reliably are dicult but both are essential to a successful analysis And as we discussed in some cases the needs of a forensic analyst may even directly contradict laws such as the ability to reverse engineer a malfunctioning voting machine vs the anonymity of the voter A systematic approach that includes both the laws and some sort of security policy is needed  H o w ev er t he outcomes of cases in U.S courts have not yet deìned acceptable standards for the composition and admissibility of digital evidence Therefore we cannot apply existing legal forensic standards directly to election audits We have previously described a model of forensic logging Laoco on t hat u ses attac k graphs based on intruder goals to guide an optimal set of data to be logged and to assist in correlating that data during a post mortem analysis We demonstrated how a mechanism using the model eectively reduces the possibility of failing to record necessary data while minimizing the amount of unnecessary data being recorded Thus this approach is more eective than current ones and also more ecient for both the computer system recording the forensic data and for the human forensic analyst analyzing the data Constructing the attack graphs can be time consuming and dicult for a general-purpose computing system However electronic voting machines are not general purpose computers They have highly restricted modes of operation and well-deìned security policies For example many violations of security policy on an electronic voting machine e.g changing or discarding cast votes are easy to deìne precisely The beneìt of the model is that deriving or knowing the methods for violating the policiesÑwhich is known to be dicultÑneed not be pre-deìned The result is that only the information that is necessary to analyze to understand the violations or suspected violations is recorded Without the model system designers would either have to guess about what is important creating the risk of missing something or record everything thus simultaneously violating anonymity/conìdentiality rules and also overwhelming both the auditing system and the human analyst Thus electronic voting machines and the related election management systems make ideal environments for the use of the model Most importantly Laoco on provides a technological framework for balancing secrecy and anonymity needs with auditing By using Laoco on to systematically characterize both attacker and defender goals one can then more easily characterize the threats and targets By understanding the context of attacks and failures better an analyst can weigh forensic metrics against privacy metrics to evaluate what information can be revealed to the auditors and therefore what of the requirements given by Laoco on can and cannot be safely recorded In this manner if a particular state does not want auditors to be able to see how voters cast their ballots the model leads to one set of constraints Alternatively if a state has no such laws and determines that the auditors are trusted or establishes procedural mechanisms to provide protection to preserve anonymity the model leads to a dierent set of privacy constraints 2.2 Practical Matters It is also clear that Laoco on alone is insucient and needs to be combined with a procedural model  F or example the s ystem s hould b e built in such a way that the logging mechanism cannot be bypassed and the logs are tamperproof or measurably tamper-resistant  T his r equires t he use of a reference monitor-like component and writeonce storage devices However even such low-level mechanisms are not 100 reliable and so they also must be designed to fail in a safe way For example one way to store the logs is to use a transaction-based system that records each transaction  to a separate s ystem w ith a separate and perhaps even more rigorous security domain This would work in a way that a transaction on the primary system would not proceed without acknowledgment of receipt by the logging system However if the link between the two is broken the primary system should stop functioning This is vulnerable to a denial-of-service attack of course but certain jurisdictions may nd this more desirable than over-votes or other actions proceeding without being logged For example they could revert to paper ballots at that point The model must also account for procedural elements outside of any technical context Doing so can help to verify where to focus eort on additional training for or redundancy in the duties of poll workers Indeed it is at least as important to know the most critical points to train humans so that eort is not wasted on technological solutions when such a solution is not appropriate ThereProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


fore the design of an audit system should begin with voting machine requirements which we have previous discussed The research questions that we previously posed also drive the construction of the forensic model by giving a starting point for understanding what the system looks like when itês running as it is intended when it is running in violation of its original intention and what elements of the system could cause a transition between those two state spaces But even system requirementsÑthe policies for an electronic voting system vary among speciìc types of machines a precinct-count optical scanner has very dierent requirements than a touchscreen DRE 2 for example Yet certain requirements apply to all election systems Thus the design of an auditing system should begin by reìning voting requirements into policies that voting systems must meet These policies serve as input to the model that guide which data is to be logged For the remainder of this paper we focus only on the technological elements and assume the common elements that all such systems share and face for auditing 3 Methods for Forensic Logging The basic requirements for all elections held in the United States are in no particular order accuracy convenience eciency and security We focus on the rst and last items For our purposes accuracy means that the vote totals reîect the votes cast and security means that no one has tampered with the system in a way that could affect the recording or counting of votes or compromise the anonymity of the voter or the secrecy of the ballot How can we detect violations of these requirements and reconstruct what happened The context in which events occur is critical to their correct interpretation Logging sequences of touches are not enough the contextÑthe contents of the screenÑprovides the information that enables the analysts to interpret the log in order to reconstruct the series of events This allows the analysts to decide whether the touches are  2 A Direct Recording Electronic Voting Machine DRE records votes digitally on electronic components e.g hard disks or ash memory as opposed to an Electronic Ballot Marker EBM which contains touch-screens and other similar components to a DRE but the vote is ultimately recorded on a paper ballot not an electronic object meaningful and if so what they mean Combined with the other data such as source code the auditors will have available the analysts can use the FAT to reconstruct the voting systemês state at any point The systemês state includes technical characteristics that are commonly associated with computer systems such as how long the system has been running or which anonymous user started it and characteristics that reîect a voterês perception of the system such as which language it is displaying information in As an example suppose a voter touches the screen on an electronic voting machine 103 times during a voting session Those touches are all actions aecting the state of the system so the positions of these touches are recorded as forensic information But that information alone does not provide the context for interpreting what those touches meant So assume the analyst knows which page of the ballot was being displayed If 20 of the touches did not connect precisely to a hot spot but were near a hot spot and if immediately after those touches the nearest hot spot was touched precisely then a forensic analyst could reasonably conclude that the portion of the screen that is supposed to detect a voterês touches was mis-aligned The additional context of the screen positioning helps the analyst to understand how to interpret the touches and whether the nonconnecting touches were the voter idly tapping the screen or indicate some other problem Fundamentally the electronic voting machine is also a computer It might be connected to other electronic voting machines and/or a supervisor machine It may even be able to receive inputs from other hardware sources such as removable storage devices that can upload new rmware or in some way alter the behavior of the machine Thus many of the characteristics of an electronic voting machine can be captured in the same way as for a general-purpose computer system on a network using logging appropriate for such a situation This could include capturing network trafìc insertion of new software and replacement of existing software It could even include recording system and dynamic library calls to an operating system as is often necessary for forensic analysis of general-purpose computers unless the system is an embedded system with extremely narrow functionality dictated by the hardware design itself This raises the question of limits How much Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


information needs to be recorded How much can be recorded without causing problems either mechanical such as running out of memory or in the ability of the election to meet its requirements violating ballot secrecy for example The design of an audit system should begin with voting machine requirements The requirements are translated into policies and the policies are used to deìne attack graphs The attack graphs are formed by starting with an ultimate goal of the attackersÑthe policy violationsÑand working backward toÑthe point of entry into the system As mentioned earlier we cannot deìne let alone enumerate all methods of violation The model tolerates this by using data about steps toward the policy violation that we do know something about to place bounds on the steps that we do not know anything about These attack graphs are then translated into speciìcations and implementations that Laoco on uses to guide logging what data to log and where to place the instrumentation to log the data Finally that data is used by a human analyst to conduct forensic analysis in a rigorous and systematic way For example consider how Laoco on would handle over-voting Over-voting occurs when more candidates are selected than are allowed in a given race and electronic voting machines generally disallow over-votes There are a limited number of ways in which such an event could ultimately be recorded either on a VVPAT or on electronic media At some point the value of a variable or a set of bit\(s changes somewhere There are a limited number of data points that can be manipulated to do this Describing in advance how the data is manipulated is not necessary and in fact may be impossible It is sufìcient to understanding the possible paths that lead to this manipulation The paths begin at entry into the system e.g touchscreen supervisor machine hardware manipulation and end at the data These paths must be monitored This automatically places bounds on the intermediate steps that happen along the path This allows a system to collect enough information for a forensic analyst to analyze the violationÑthe traversal of that attack graph by an attackerÑand either understand what happened or determine how to analyze the system further to obtain any necessary information not recorded in the FAT One goal of forensics is to reconstruct the state of a machine in sucient detail that an analyst can understand the sequence of events leading up to the attack and the attack itself 3 Suppose such a reconstruction requires the FAT to record enough information to allow a voter to mark her ballot so others can determine how she voted Two obvious techniques are to vote by touching the screen in a predetermined and unusual way which is recorded in the FAT or writing in an unusual candidate name such as Frisbey Q Perhassenpfeer This marks the ballot so election ocials or members of an audit team can identify the ballot This is a classic insider attack unless the state allows the contents of the FAT to become public or untrusted observers are allowed to examine the FAT during its review Indeed it has recently been shown with certain datasets that with very little information about a particular record it is possible to reverse-engineer the identity of the voter G iv en the i nformation t hat could be collected by a voting machine there is substantial cause for concern about how easy it is to defeat anonymization techniques which simply simply strip the names from that data and hope it is anonymous As a more detailed example consider a presidential election with candidates James Andrew and Thomas George wishes to reveal to John how George voted in a way that John will believe For example if John is going to pay George 1,000 to vote for Thomas in the election John needs to be sure that George actually cast his vote for Thomas before paying him So they agree to a signaling mechanism by which George will uniquely mark the record of his vote so that John can verify it is indeed Georgeês vote The key idea is that George need not mark his ballot uniquely As the FAT allows complete reconstruction of all events on the system that George votes on George need only take a series of options that populates the portion of the FAT thus marking it that corresponds with his voting John then locates the part of the FAT that corresponds to Georgeês voting He then reconstructs the sequence of votes and from that can determine how George voted Continuing with our example George and John mutually agree that before touching the screen to vote for Thomas few voters will initially vote for James then change their vote to Andrew  3 The other goal is to enable the analyst to present the information to others such as judges lawyers and the body politic Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


change it back to James and nally to Thomas So George agrees that he will touch the voting machineês screen to vote for candidates in that order As the system allows the user to change his selections up until the ballot is actually cast that sequence of touches will cause the nal vote for president to be cast for Thomas as John wants Speciìcally George enters the polling station and is assigned a voting machine He walks over and begins to vote When he reaches the presidential race he taps the icon next to James The system marks a vote for James George then taps the icon next to Andrew the screen changes the mark to reîect a vote for Andrew and cancels the mark for James George touches the icon by James again changing the vote back to James then he touches the icon for Thomas The nal vote marked is Thomas After the election is over an audit is called for because there are indications that a system malfunctioned and votes may have been lost So the forensic auditors begin auditing the system that George used to vote John is one of the observers of the audit He sees the FAT generated for the machine and looks for the sequence he and George agreed to When he nds it he knows that George has voted as he promised and pays the 1,000 This type of attack exploits a covert channel a path whose primary purpose is not communication but one that can be used to communicate In this case the goal of the FAT is to record events for analysis it is not designed to be a communication channel in the sense of electronic mail or a telephone line But that is exactly how George and John are using it 4 Methods for Enforcing Anonymity The area of covert channels arises with any shared medium and it has been studied extensively in computer security particularly in conjunction with systems that handle dierent levels of classiìed materials e.g classiìed secret and top secret 13 15 23 T w o general c ategories o f approaches for reducing the amount of communication that can be communicated via covert channels have been identiìed enforcing regularity and adding noise In this context the rst approach suggests modifying the FAT log entries in some way to make them more regular so an analyst cannot glean information from the dierences Communication requires changes to information For example a steady hum conveys nothing If the hum starts and stops the points of starting and stopping can communicate something much as Morse code is used to communicate something If the hum varies in intensity the changes and dierent intensities can communicate something Similarly one analyzes the FAT entries to determine how information can be transmitted using them In our above example reordering the screen touches would close the channel that depends on the order of the touches This raises two problems First the speciìc nature of the covert channel through the resource controls the countermeasure The above assumes information is encoded in ordering of touches But if the information were encoded as number of touches for a set of candidatesÑsuch as three touches for James and ve for AndrewÑthen rearranging the FAT entries does not obscure the signal in the channel Even if the countermeasure were appropriate we have to consider its eects on the use of the FAT Reordering events within the log changes the analysts view of the sequence in which those events occurred This inhibits accurate analysis As an example suppose a bug in the code will delete one of Jamesês votes and add one to Thomasês votes whenever someone votes for Andrew If the sequence of the changes are jumbled so that all votes subtracted from Jamesês votes come rst then the votes for Thomas and then the votes for Andrew the connection between the vote changes will be lostÑand the FAT will be of minimal use to the auditors An alternate approach preserves the existing log entries it simply obscures them Instead of rearranging the entries the system adds spurious log entries to the FAT as the FAT is generated This follows the second category of approaches for handling covert channels adding noise It obscures the signal because now the auditors cannot determine which entries are real and which entries are not Returning to our example this mechanism might cause two more entries to be added So rather than the sequence James Andrew James Thomas the log may show James Thomas Andrew James Thomas This complicates the analysis because the spurious entries introduce potential dependencies that the analysts must eliminate Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Indeed obfuscation has been used to defeat security analysis Garìnkel discussed its use in anti-forensics a nd Con t i s p eciìcally addressed attacking visualization systems for security Other a reas include co de obfuscation  steganograph y 14 m etho ds for d efeating attempts to mine statistical databases 1 B ut the goal of the obfuscation proposed is not to defeat the derivation of accurate forensic information it is designed to close a covert channel and so the focus diers from these approaches A key question is how the addition of FAT entries will aect the analysis of the log If the new entries reîect problems then they may cause the analysts to spend time looking at problems not relevant to the goal of the audit In practice this is undesirable so the entries should be added only when they can be inserted without obscuring the sequence of actions within the system or the nal contents of the ballot The question is how to guarantee this One obvious approach is to generate log entries from sections of code that have a very high assurance of being correct For example if two successive screen touches overwrite the same location register as many screen touches as desired may be added before the nal one without aecting the results of the vote as the last candidate touched is the one being voted for A second approach is to insert bogus log entries that advance the voter to the next screen enter some random data corresponding to log entries and then return to the previous screen With care log entries for selections that the voter does not make on the future screen can be eliminated simply by adding new FAT entries that undo those selections Analysts who have access to the FAT only will be unable to distinguish between randomly generated entries and entries corresponding to actions But if analysts have access to both the FAT and the source code then the analysts may be able to compare the FAT to the code for creating log entries and distinguish the two types of entries To prevent this the random entries can be generated using an asynchronous timer causing an interrupt that invokes a routine to add a random FAT entry As an example suppose the screen of candidates deìnes hot spots to be areas A 1   A n and variables v 1   v n capture the state corresponding to those areas So if the voter has touched area A i once then v i contains the value of 1 Then when the asynchronous routine is invoked it can either generate a completely random press to indicate the voter has touched the screen outside the hot spots or generate a press for any of the given areas In the latter case the routine would need to retain the state of the variable corresponding to that area The system must ensure that on exit a ballot is cast the state of that variable is what it would be without the asynchronous routineês interference This approach appears to oer signiìcant beneìts over rearranging log entries It does not obscure the sequence of events that sequence is a proper subsequence of the FAT entries It does obscure both the number of FAT entries and the distance number of entries between any pair of FAT entries Thus problems existing in the unaugmented FAT would also exist in the augmented FAT Although deleting log entries would enhance this technique in the context of auditing deleting real entries will hinder the analysis and so are not appropriated 5 Future Work The exact algorithms to be used will vary based upon the construction of the software used in the e-voting system In some cases the asynchronous approach discussed above would work In others for example should the e-voting system not support that approach perhaps adding code to the FAT logging routines to generate between 0 and n entries before generating the correct entry would provide the appropriate measure of noise to make the bandwidth of the covert channel acceptable This leads us to a number of interesting theoretical questions The rst is how to analyze the covert channel to determine the various method that can be used to pass information We have discussed using sequence information and counts both of which the random FAT entry technique hinders Are there others and if so in what ways can we hinder their use In answering this question we must take into account the inability to close covert channels generally and be content with sucient noise to render the analysts being able to discern the communication as unlikely as desired The second is how to integrate the defensive mechanism into the e-voting systemês code base in such a way that it will not introduce new problems Many studies have demonstrated the poor Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


quality of e-voting system code see for example 6 5 16 The i n t egration of additional routines particularly asynchronous ones must be done carefully Perhaps this type of mechanism will encourage the development of more robust evoting systems with greater assurance than the current generation of e-voting systems 6 Conclusions Much eort and study has gone into the auditing of elections Virtually no eort and study has gone into the auditing of e-voting systems The two are fundamentally dierent Auditing an election requires that the votes be veriìed to have been tallied correctly The concept of software independence introduced by Rivest  r equires t hat t he election r esults b e d emonstrably correct even in the face of software errors The use of a VVPAT is one mechanism that helps satisfy software independence even if the evoting system misrecords votes electronically the VVPAT can be used as the authoritative record of votes 4 regardless of the electronic count of votes Auditing an e-voting system requires that the system be shown to have worked correctly If the system did not the audit must show how the system failed The VVPAT will help minimally here and only if the VVPAT records can be matched against the electronically recorded ballots If there is no discrepancy then either the vote was correctly recorded or both the VVPAT and the electronic record misrecorded it If the two dier one is wrong Beyond that the analysts must guess at where the problem is likely to be or try to analyze the software directlyÑa complex task But detailed audit records of the sort that this paper calls a FAT can be used to leak information They must be obscured if the audit is to be public Thus they must be protected in some way yet in such a way that does not change the results of any audit Hence the proposed scheme One obvious question is why not simply use trusted auditors and disallow anyone else from seeing the FAT The answer lies in the realm of the non-technical If elections are to be transparent so must the post-election processes And if a problem arises the resolution of that problem must  4 Assuming the VVPAT is implemented correctly works during Election Day and voters check that the VVPAT correctly records their vote also be transparent This means that the auditors must be able to demonstrate what happened and why and how to others This would require untrusted people having access to the FAT Acknowledgements Sean Peisert was supported by grant 2006-CS-001000001 from the U S Department of Homeland Security under the auspices of the Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection  I3P research program The I3P is managed by Dartmouth College The views and conclusions contained in this document are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as necessarily representing the ocial policies either expressed or implied of the U.S Department of Homeland Security the I3P or Dartmouth College Matt Bishop gratefully acknowledges the support of award number CNS-0716827 from the National Science Foundation to the University of California at Davis Alec Yasinsac was supported in part through DoD Grant H98230-07-1-0221 References  Nabil R Adam and J ohn C  W orthman Security-Control Methods for Statistical Databases a Comparative Study ACM Computing Surveys  21\(4 December 1989  J ames P  Anderson C omputer Securit y Threat Monitoring and Surveillance Technical report James P Anderson Co Fort Washington PA April 1980  B oaz Barak Oded Goldreic h Russell I mpagliazzo Steven Rudich Amit Sahai and Salil Vadhan Ke Yang On the Im\ossibility of Obfuscating Programs In Proceedings of the 21st Annual International Cryptology Conference on Advances in Cryptology Crypto  volume 2139 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science  pages 1Ö18 Santa Barbara CA August 2001  M att B ishop Sophie Engle C arrie G ates Sean Peisert and Sean Whalen We Have Met the Enemy and He is Us In Proceedings New Security Paradigms Workshop NSPW Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


to appear  Lake Tahoe CA September 22 25 2008  M att B ishop a nd Da vid W agner R isks of E-Voting Communications of the ACM  50\(11 November 2008  M att B ishop et al UC Red Team Report of California Secretary of State Top-to-Bottom Voting Systems Review  July 2007  M att B laze P a tric k M cDaniel and G io v a nni Vigna et al EVEREST Evaluation and Validation of Election-Related Equipment Standards and Testing  Secretary of State of Ohio December 7 2007  D a vid Bon y un The R ole o f a W e ll-Deìned Auditing Process in the Enforcement of Privacy and Data Security In Proceedings of the 1980 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy  1980  Gregory C on ti M ustaque A hamad and J ohn Stasko Attacking Information Visualization System Usability Overloading and Deceiving the Human In 2005 Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security SOUPS  2005  Doroth y E  D enning S ecure Statistical Databases with Random Sample Queries ACM Transactions on Database Systems  5\(3 September 1980  Ariel J  F eldman J  A lex Halderman a nd Edward W Felten Security Analysis of the Diebold AccuVote-TS Voting Machine http://itpolicy.princeton edu/voting  September 2006  Simson Garìnk el A n t i-F o rensics T e c h niques Detection and Countermeasures In Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on i-Warfare and Security ICIW  Naval Postgraduate School Monterey CA March 2007  J Thomas Haigh R ic hard Kemmerer John McHugh and William D Young An Experience Using Two Covert Channel Analysis Techniques on a Real System Design IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering  13\(2 Feb 1987  Neil F Johnson Z oran Duric and S ushil Jajodia Information Hiding Steganography and WatermarkingÑAttacks and Countermeasures Journal of Electronic Imaging  10\(3 July 2001  Ric h ard A  K emmerer Shared r esource matrix methodology An approach to identifying storage and timing channels ACM Transactions on Computer Systems  1\(3 August 1983  T a da y o shi K ohno A  S tubbleìeld Aviel D  Rubin and Daniel S Wallach Analysis of an Electronic Voting System In Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy  pages 27Ö40 2004  Arvind Nara y anan and V italy Shmatik o v  Robust De-anonymization of Large Sparse Datasets In Proceedings of the 29th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy  pages 111Ö125 Oakland CA May 2008  National I nstitute of Standards a nd T e c hnology NIST Voluntary voting system guidelines vvsg http://vote.nist.gov vvsg-report.htm   Sean P e isert Matt Bishop S idney K arin a nd Keith Marzullo Principles-Driven Forensic Analysis In Proceedings of the 2005 New Security Paradigms Workshop NSPW  pages 85Ö93 Lake Arrowhead CA October 2005  Sean P e isert Matt Bishop S idney K arin and Keith Marzullo Analysis of Computer Intrusions Using Sequences of Function Calls IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing TDSC  4\(2 150 AprilÖJune 2007  Sean P e isert Matt Bishop a nd Keith Marzullo Computer Forensics In Forensis In Proceedings of the Third International IEEE Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering IEEE-SADFE  pages 102Ö122 Oakland CA May 22 2008  Sean Philip P e isert AModelofForensic Analysis Using Goal-Oriented Logging PhD thesis Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of California San Diego March 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 Phillip A P o rras a nd Ric h ard A  K emmerer Covert ow trees A technique for identifying and analyzing covert storage channels In Proceedings of the 1991 Symposium on Security and Privacy  1991  Ronald L Riv e st and J ohn P  W ac k On the Notion of Software Independece in Voting Systems http://vote.nist.gov SI-in-voting.pdf  July 2006  Marv Sc haefer B arry Gold R ic hard Linde and John Scheid Program Conìnement in KVM/370 In Proceedings of the 1977 ACM Annual Conference  pages 404Ö410 Oct 1977  Bruce S c hneier a nd John Kelsey  S ecure Audit Logs to Support Computer Forensics ACM Transactions on Information and System Security TISSEC  2\(2 May 1999  Alec Y a sinsac and M att B ishop Of P a p e r Trails and Voter Receipts In Proceedings of the 2008 Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences  January 2008  Alec Y a sinsac and M att B ishop The D ynamics of Counting and Recounting Votes IEEE Security and Privacy Magazine  6\(3 May/June 2008  Alec Y a sinsac D a vid W agner M att B ishop Ted Baker Breno de Medeiros Gary Tyson Michael Shamos and Mike Burmester Software Review and Security Analysis of the ES&S iVotronic 8.0.1.2 Voting Machine Firmware Final Report For the Florida Department of State  Security and Assurance in Information Technology Laboratory Florida State University Tallahassee Florida February 23 2007  Dmitrii Z agoro dno v Keith M arzullo Lorenzo Alvisi and Thomas C Bressoud Engineering Fault-Tolerant TCP/IP Servers Using FTTCP In Proceedings of the 2003 International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks DSN  2003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Service Description Service Data Entity Replica Processing Unit Network Device Invoke Derive Specific Quality Non-Functional Performance Requirement Storage Unit Workstation User Profile Application Constraint Availability Transition Functional Data Entity Operation Behavior Utilization Network Process Capacity Module Initiate Invoke Initiate Server Role Load Site Node Call Requirements satisfied by Network Infrastructure View Requirements satisfied by Topology View Requirements satisfied by Functional View 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 source-outgoing source-outgoing target-incoming 1 1 1 1 outgoing1-source1 target -incoming1 source outgoing target incoming target1 incoming source outgoing1 1 1 source outgoing target 


target incoming target incoming target incoming source outgoing Figure 6. EIS System Network View Meta-model operations are those used for service description and must be ultimately decomposed into elementary ones \(i.e. data processing, storing and transferring are estimated through parameter values that are propagated by service invocation parameters to parameters describing application operations constituting the service description which are further propagated to parameters describing elementary operations 4.3. EIS Architecture Design Task Implementation EIS Architecture Design tasks may be supported by existing tools [20]. Systems Modeling Language \(SysML 15] is considered as the most appropriate for EIS System Network model representation and requirement engineering, since it supports the concepts of requirements and resource allocation. As a direct consequence, SysML allows the representation of requirements as model elements which means that requirements are part of the system architecture. For representation purposes, a SysML pro?le for EIS System Network meta-model \(?gure 6 mented as a plugin to MagicDraw modeling tool [2]. In order to facilitate model exchangeability, EIS System Network model is being realized in XML, which is a standard exchangeable format. In order to exchange data with speci?c software tools, model transformations will be accomplished through appropriate XSLTs developed for each tool for example as the one transforming XMI to the EIS System Network document type description \(DTD 5. Case Study In the following we discuss the case of renovating a legacy information system supporting a large-scale public organization based on the proposed concepts. The organization supports more than 350 interconnected regional of?ces and its main purpose is to provide services to the public both citizens and businesses. Regional of?ces are divided into three categories according to their size and information infrastructure requirements \(large, medium and small More than 15.000 employees work in the organization having on-line access to the legacy system. There are more than 300 different services provided to the public, while each citizen is required to register in the one belonging to his/her residential area, called residential of?ce. Some of them require the actual presence of citizens in their residential of?ce Existing system architecture is based on a fat clientserver architecture. All application logic is programmed within the client platform, while data is distributed in local database servers located in each regional of?ce. A Central database is supported in the Datacenter for data synchronization and lookup purposes. The Datacenter and all regional of?ces participate in a private TCP/IP network to facilitate ef?cient data replication. Most data related to a speci?c citizen are maintained as local data in his/her residential of?ce. Client programs access the local database to store data, while they access the central database mostly for lookup purposes. Local data are asynchronously replicated in the central database using a transaction management system \(TMS Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 to facilitate communication with the central database. The central database provides the overall view of each citizen  s record 


record To enhance the level of services provided by the organization, we decided to establish an enhanced e-services environment through an e-government portal. The main target of the portal is to minimize the need for citizen  s presence in regional of?ces and intents to deal with all the drawbacks of the current e-service platform. It provides easy access to citizens and businesses twenty four hours per day, seven days per week. It also promotes the increase of e-services to users, facilitating the organization to accomplish its strategic goals. The portal facilitates on-line transactional services and ensures on-line access to the databases of the legacy information system Provision of transactional e-services re?ects the operation of the legacy system and thus results in its renovation. In order to effectively support both systems \(e.g the portal and the legacy system able to apply the same policies and minimize maintenance cost. Thus, it was decided to explore the renovation of the legacy information system by adopting modern technological trends, such as multi-tiered application architecture server-based computing and light clients. It was decided also to rewrite application code based on J2EE architecture to develop a web interface for the legacy information system in order to support a uni?ed environment for both the legacy system and the portal. This decision affected the legacy system architecture, described in System Network View. Some of issues raised included: \(a database architecture? It is currently distributed. Should it become centralized? What are the implications in the network infrastructure? \(b complished to minimize maintenance cost Though EA was never fully described, the organization had already decided to establish an EA based on Zachman framework a few years ago. RUPmethodology was used for software development, thus application description models were developed within Rational Rose platform. In order to be able to apply the proposed tasks identi?ed in section 4, relative information had to be extracted from the corresponding cells. Application description \(e.g. applications and modules tracted from corresponding Rational Rose ?les. Though the process was not automated, the provision of System Network meta-model, helped architecture designer to identify the information needed to obtain from software designers Detailed service description in terms of load requirements could not be extracted from software description. This was crucial in order to decide upon Intranet and Datacenter architecture. This information was collected by interviewing software developers The new system has to deal with a number of require&lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office oracle L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt tuxido L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department tuxido Central 


tuxido Central lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt R.O. server room lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt oracle net lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt tuxido lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt application lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt Figure 7. Topology View - Existing System ments, with security and availability being the most important ones. Security issues have to do with the security of the network, security of data, authentication control, etc. Availability requirements deal with the backup subsystem, the recovery system and high availability UPS. Privacy must be enforced with the use of cryptography and compression techniques. All these requirements were identi?ed during the System Architecture design process and consequently exported in System Motivation cell where all system requirements are gathered using a simpli?ed text-based requirement description method System Architecture design tasks were performed by existing tools already described in [20]. The existence of System Network meta-model and its implementation in XML facilitated tool integration and interoperability. The identi?cation of primary EIS engineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows and columns facilitated a better understanding between software developers, architecture designers and organization management and enhanced discrete methodology integration. Existing and renovated application architecture of the legacy system de?ned by Topology View are presented in ?gures 7 and 8 respectively. The screenshots are from the MagicDraw [2] tool, enhanced with EIS pro?le to provide the appropriate functionality 6. Conclusions &amp; Future Work MB-EISE process based on Zachman framework was explored in the paper. The designer may adjust basic MB-EISE activity model for each cell, formulate a methodology-independent EIS cell-related view, and ?nally identify methods and tools appropriate for implementing each speci?c task. One could argue that in such a case, 36 distinct EIS sub-views should be de?ned, each of them being rather complex, while basic MB-EISE activity should be adjusted 36 times, resulting in a very complicated process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Application Server lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt 


lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt web browser lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Web Server lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer &lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt Figure 8. Topology View - Renovated System However, EIS engineering process, as enterprise architecture, is itself complex. The bene?t of the proposed approach is that all aspects \(simple or complex form and modular fashion. Cell-related sub-views and corresponding meta-models, as well as cell-related MB-EISE activity model may be progressively formed according to the designer  s priorities and perspectives Having a black-box view of each Zachman cell, the proposed approach focuses on EIS view integration and interview consistency. The notion of external entities when de?ning EIS cell-related views provides the means for interoperability with external cells, while at the same time facilitates atomicity within the limits of each cell. We are currently emphasizing Business and System rows, and especially Function and Network cells, exploring in parallel Motivation column and the way non-functional requirements are managed Having a white-box view of each Zachman cell, it is evident that the de?nition of a technology neutral metamodel and the identi?cation of basic engineering tasks, corresponding to EIS cell-related views, contributes to the integration of different methodologies and tools. A library of EIS System Network models has been already implemented in XML. Emphasis is given to requirements management and especially requirements derivation References 1] Institute For Enterprise Architecture Developments http://www.enterprise-architecture.info 2] MagicDraw UML. http://www.magicdraw.com 3] A. Aurum and C. Wohlin. Engineering and Managing Software Requirements. Springer, 2005 4] F. S. d. Boer, M. M. Bonsangue, J. Jacob, A. Stam, and L. W N. v. d. Torre. A Logical Viewpoint on Architectures. In EDOC, pages 73  83. IEEE Computer Society, 2004 5] E. R. Byrne. IEEE Standard 830: Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Speci?cations, 1998 6] B. Dave and D. Jim. The new, improved RUP SE Architecture Framework, 2005. IBM Rational Edge 7] D. J. de Villiers. Using the Zachman Framework to assess RUP. Rational Edge, 2001 8] J. A. Estefan. Survey of Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE May 2007 9] A. Fatolahi and F. Shams. An investigation into applying UML to the Zachman Framework. Information Systems Frontiers, 8\(2  143, 2006 10] M. Glinz. On non-functional Requirements. 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2007 11] F. Goethals, W. Lemahieu, M. Snoeck, and J. Vandenbulcke. An overview of enterprise architecture framework deliverables. In Banda RKJ \(ed Introduction. ICFAI University Press., 2006 12] H.-P. Hoffmann. Harmony-SE/SysML Deskbook: ModelBased Systems Engineering with Rhapsody, Rev. 1.51 Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 


Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 13] IEEE. IEEE Recommended Practice for Architectural Description for Software-Intensive Systems - Std 1471. Technical report, oct 2000 14] O. M. G. Inc. UML 2.0 Superstructure Speci?cation, October 2004 15] O. M. G. Inc. Systems Modeling Language \(SYSML i?cation. Version 1.0, September 2007 16] INCOSE. INCOSE Handbook SE Process Model, September 2003. http://g2sebok.incose.org 17] Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers. IEEE Std 15288 -2004, Systems Engineering -System Life Cycle Processes, June 2005 18] A. v. Lamsweerde. Goal-Oriented Requirements Engineering: A Guided Tour. In Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering \(RE  01 19] S. Leist and G. Zellner. Evaluation of current architecture frameworks. In H. Haddad, editor, SAC, pages 1546  1553 ACM, 2006 20] M. Nikolaidou and N. Alexopoulou. Enterprise Information System Engineering: A Model-Based Approach Based on the Zachman Framework. In HICSS  08. IEEE Computer Society, 2008 21] M. Nikolaidou and D. Anagnostopoulos. A systematic approach for con?guring web-based information systems Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 17\(3  290, May 2005 22] C. M. Pereira and P. Sousa. A method to de?ne an Enterprise Architecture using the Zachman Framework. In H. Haddad A. Omicini, R. L. Wainwright, and L. M. Liebrock, editors SAC, pages 1366  1371. ACM, 2004 23] K. Pohl and E. Sikora. Supporting the Co-Design of Requirements and Architectural Artifacts. In 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference \(RE  07 pages 258  261, India Habitat Center, New Delhi, 2007 24] J. Schekkerman. How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 25] J. F. Sowa and J. A. Zachman. Extending and Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture. IBM Systems Journal, 31\(3  616, 1992 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207ñ216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intíl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intíl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





