Zhengping Li, Wenkai Liu, Changliu Niu College of Information Engineering, North China University of Technology, Beijing, China zhengping.li@yahoo.com.cn Proceedings of ICCTA2009  A DATA-RATE ADAPTIVE HIDDEN-TERMINAL PROBLEM IMMUNE MAC PROTOCOL FOR MULTI-CHANNEL WIRELESS MESH NETWORKS  Abstract Multi-channel wireless mesh network \(WMN\s highlighted in WMNs because of its high data rate and low access delay.  Since WMN is distributed self-organized and mobile, de 
signing the medium access control \(MAC\ol for multi-channel WMN is a big challenge.  In this paper, we proposed a MAC protocol for multi-channel WMN.  In our scheme, the number of channels can be adjusted freely according to the needs of WMN.  Moreover, the data rate of our scheme is adaptive and the hidden terminal interference can be avoided.  Theoretical analyses and performance evaluations show that our scheme outperforms the proposed common control channel CCC\he high throughput and low access delay  Keywords WMN, Multi-channel, MAC, Adaprive 
Data-rate, Hidden Terminal 1  Introduction Recently, wireless mesh networks \(WMNs\ve attracted much attention from both industry and academia. Because the functions of the nodes in WMN are diversified, they outpe rform those of ad hoc network.  Since mesh routers have the minimal mobility, they can be more complicated than mesh clients in hardware and software.  Advanced techniques, such as multi-radio, multi-channel efficient medium access schemes, can be applied to the mesh routers.  So, WMNs have higher throughput than ad hoc networks.  Moreover, WMNs have other advantages such as low up-front cost, easy network 
maintenance, robustness and reliable service coverage These advantages make WMNs very attractive and undergo rapid development on broadband home networking, community networking, building automation, high-speed metropolitan area networking and enterprise networking  Since WMNs are different from the traditional ad hoc networks, the existing MAC protocols for ad hoc networks are not suitable for WMNs.  The MAC for WMN is still under development.  Several MACs are proposed for WMNs.  To increase the throughput of WMNs, multi-channel MAC should be applied in 
WMNs  There are still many difficulties in multi-channel MAC Time division multiple access \(TDMA\ode division multiple access \(CDMA\frequency division multiple access \(FDMA\nse multiple access with collision avoidance \(CSMA/CA for MAC of ad hoc networks.  Among these access schemes, FDMA and CSMA/CA have been proposed for WMNs in nsm issions with TDM A nee d be  synchronized, which is suitable for central coordinated system.  When TDMA is used in distributed system the overhead for synchronization is heavy.  Since WMN is a distributed system, TDMA isnêt suitable for medium access in WMN.  FDMA divides the channels 
by frequency, and the division is constant after the system is designed.  Therefore, FDMA canêt realize flexible bandwidth allocation.  Moreover, it is not an easy task to allocate the channels for the communication pairs in distributed system CSMA/CA is a random access scheme which is widely used in the ad hoc networks.  However the throughput of CSMA/CA is low when the offered load is heavy  D MA divides c h annel s with s p rea di ng c o des   Transmitter and receiver can communicate with each other on condition that th ey use the same spreading code.  Similar to FDMA, it is hard for CDMA to 
distribute spreading codes in the distributed system Moreover, all these four access schemes above have the hidden terminal problems which can reduce the throughput of networks  To avoid these problems and enhance the performance of multi-channel WMN, we proposed a MAC scheme named data-rate adaptive hidden terminal problem immune multiple access scheme \(DHMA\In our scheme, there are control channel and data channel which are distinguished by frequency.  On the control channel, distributed coordinate function \(DCF\ used for medium access.  On the data channel, spreading codes are used for the data transmissions.  When a 
source wants to send data to its neighbor, it needs to send spreading code to its neighbor on control channel first and makes a reservation of the spreading code in case of spreading code reuse in the destinationês coverage area.  Then, source can send data to its neighbor on data channel with the reserved spreading code.  Data rate is in inverse proportion to the length of the spreading code.  The length of spreading code can __________________ ______________ 978-1-4244-4817-3/09 25.00 ©2009 IEEE 


be adjusted according to the interference, so the data rate in our scheme is adaptive.  Moreover, with the help of spreading code, our scheme can avoid the interference of hidden terminals  The rest of the paper is organized as follows.  Section II reviews some existing MAC protocols Section III proposes our scheme.  Section IV provides the performance analysis models.  Section V conducts performance evaluations and comparisons.  Finally Section VI concludes the paper 2 Review of Some MAC Protocoals Many MACs have been proposed for multi-channel distributed networks.  In   com m on contr o l cha nnel  CCC\protocol was proposed for IEEE 802.11s mesh networks This de fi nes a  flexible m e dium access coordination architecture that works with arbitrary mixtures of devices that have one, one-and-a-half and several radios per node and accessing different numbers of channels.  CCC tries to make use of IEEE 802.11e enhanced distributed channel access \(EDCA mechanism to provide prioritized contention-based multi-channel access.  In CCC, wireless medium is divided into a control channel \(CC\veral mesh traffic \(MT\ channels by frequency.  CCC has some drawbacks.  Firstly, this pr otocol cannot remove the hidden terminal and it exposes terminal problems entirely.  When there is only one radio, CCC will have the hidden terminal problem mentioned in  Request-to-send \(RTS\an d clear-to-send \(CTS used for contention access in CCC.  Since RTS-CTS handshake cannot entirely remove hidden terminal problem dden term inal problem   Since the data channels are divided with frequency CCC can not adaptiv ely allocate bandwidth for different links.  In CCC, contention windows are embedded between data channels, which increases the contentions within the contention window and reduces the throughput of the system  Receiver Initiated Channel-Hopping with Dual Polling  but t h e recei ve r initiates the collision avoidance ha ndshake instead of the sender.  In also nee d be sy nc hronized    a m u lti-channel with signal power based channel selection scheme.  In this scheme, data packet is transmitted when there is an idle channel 3  The Proposed Scheme The main goal of our scheme is to reduce the channel access delay and increase the systemês throughput.  As is shown in Figure 1, our scheme has a control channel and a data channel which are divided by frequency The data channel is divide d into data sub-channels with spreading codes.  One spreading code corresponds to one data sub-channel.  We use the sub-channel for short instea d of data sub-channel in the following.  RTS-CTS handsha ke is used on the control channel.  The process of RTS-CTS handshake is designed as follows  Figure 1. DCF of the proposed scheme  1 Node A sends RTS to node B for data transmission on a sub-channel.  CSMA/CA is used as the medium access control scheme 2 When node B receives RTS from node A, it sends CTS to node A after a short time interval, named short-inter-frame-space \(SIFS 3 If the sub-channel in St ep 1 isnêt occupied, node A will send data to node B immediately on the sub-channel.  Otherwise, the data will be arranged for transmission on the sub-channel  In our scheme, both RTS and CTS massages are of the same form which is composed of source ID destination ID, spreading code ID, and duration Source ID is the ID of th e node which sends the message; destination ID is the ID of the node which receives the message; and spreading code ID is the ID of the selected spreading code for transmission Duration is the length of time will be spent for the data transmission and is estimated according to the amount of data, the length of the spreading code, and the data rate of the system.  In the data channel, data packet and ACK are transmitted  Data channel reservation is propo sed in our scheme In IEEE 802.11 MAC, DCF was proposed for single channel system.  Data, ACK, RTS and CTS are sent on the same channel.  Data is transmitted immediately after a successful RTS-CTS handshake.   In our scheme, RTS and CTS are transmitted in control channel; data and ACK are transmit ted in data channel Data shall not be transmitt ed immediately after a successful RTS-CTS handshake as in Step 3.  When there is no idle subchannel, RTS-CTS handshake can still be done on control channel.  After a successful RTS-CTS handshake, data is arranged for transmission on a subchannel.  When the time for transmission comes, the data will be transmitted immediately.  In this proc ess, data channel reservation is needed for the arrangement.  It is realized with 


virtual carrier sensing, wh ich was proposed in IEEE 802.11 MAC, and is realized with networks allocation vector \(NAV\our scheme, NAV records the start time and the duration of an arranged traffic on the subchannel based on duration information in RTS/CTS message.  When a node receives RTS/CTS with destination ID which is different from its own ID it need conduct virtual carrier sensing.  The virtual carrier sensing acts differently in the following three conditions 1 A node receives RTS/CTS when it is idle.  The start time of NAV is the current time.  Duration of NAV is that in RTS/CTS.  The node does NAV immediately 2 A node receives RTS/CTS when it is doing NAV and the remaining duration is t n The node needs to substitute the t n with the duration in RTS/CTS The start time of NAV is the current time 3 A node receives RTS/CTS when it is sending data and the remaining transmission time is t d The start time of NAV is the sum of current time and t d Let t be the duration in TRS/CTS.  The duration of NAV is t minus t d When this node finishes the transmission, it starts doing NAV 4  Performance Analysis Models 4.1  Throughput with Hidden Terminals 4.1.1 Throuput without hidden termianls Let N be the number of channels.  Each channel i  1 i  N is assigned an n bit pseudo-random noise \(PN sequence n get the sum ca pacity of the CDMA channels in binary input Gaussian condition is    2 2 log 2   log   bc N C e Py Pydy n      1 in which  11   2 Py P y P y    and 2  exp   2 2 m Py ymnN  012  015  This capacity is denoted with bits/chip.  Let r d be the chip rate of the data channel.  Then we can get the capacity C d denoted with bit/s  dbsd CCr     22 log 2   log   d Nr ePy Pydy n      2 Let B be the bandwidth of the WMN.  In our scheme B  is composed of two parts: c ontrol channel and data channel.  The bandwidth of the control channel is B C  Then the bandwidth of the data channel is B D  B  B C  According to Shanno n formula, the capacity of WMN is 2 0 log 1 E CB nB     3 in which E is the signal power.  Let E P the average length of the data packet.  Since packet rate equals bit rate dividing by average packet length, the capacity of WMN denoted with packet rate is E  WMN bits per second C P packet length P    4 According to Shannon formu la, the capacity of data channel r DHMA of our scheme is 2 0 log 1 DHMA D D E rB nB     5 in which E  n 0 and B D have been defined in the upper parts  Replacing r d in \(2 r DHMA in \(5\we can get the sum capacity of the sub-channels   22 log 2   log   DHMA DHMA Nr CePyPydy n       6 in which N is the number of sub-channels and n is the length of the spreading code.  Sum capacity of the sub-channels is the capacity of the data channel with CDMA access scheme, and the sum capacity of the sub-channels is named achievable data rate of the data channel  The achievable packet rate of the data channel is the ratio of the achievable data rate of the data channel C DHMA to the average data packet length E P  en the achievable packet rate of the data channel is E  D HMA DHMA C P P  7 According to Shannon formula, the capacity of control channel r CC in our scheme is 2 0 log 1 CC C C E rB nB     8 in which E  n 0 and B C have been defined in the upper parts  Let E RTSCTS be the average cycle of a success RTS-CTS two-way handshak e.  From get  E RTSCTS follows E  RTS CTS RTSCTS T SIFS T DIFS     9 in which T RTS and T CTS are the transmission time of RTS and CTS, and they are equal to T RTS  RTS  r CC  T RTS  CTS  r CC  RTS and CTS are the frame length of the RTS and CTS.  SIFS is short inter-frame space, and DIFS is DCF inter-frame space  is propagation delay  Then, the capacity of the control chann el denoted with packet rate is the inverse of average cycle of a success RTS-CTS handshake, that is 1 E  DHMA CC P R TSCTS  10 From we c a n get the t h r o ughput of CS MA/CA on control channel under the offered load G   1-2  aG DHMA aG Ge S GaGe    11 in which a is normalized propagation delay of the radio  


Since throughput can be denoted with the ratio of achievable packet rate to channel ca achievable packet rate can be denoted with the product of throughput and channel capacity.  From \(10 11\we can get the achievable packet rate of control channel under the offered load G  DHMA DHMA CC CC DHMA RPS  12 Let L DHMA be the achievable packet rate on data channel of DHMA under offered load G In our system, every transmission of a data packet on data channel needs a success of RTS-CTS handshake on control channel.  Therefore L DHMA is equal to the achievable packet rate on control channel when the achievable packet rate on control channel is smaller than the achievable packet rate on data channel.  When the achievable packet rate on control channel is higher than the achievable packet rate on the data channels the data channels are full loaded, and L DHMA is equal to the achievable packet rate on data channel.  Then L DHMA is as follows DHMA DHMA CC CC DHMA DHMA DHMA D HMA CC DHMA RRP L PR P         13 The throughput of our sch eme under offered load G is the ratio of L DHMA to the capacity of the WMN P WMN  From \(4\ and \(13\, we can get the throughput of our scheme under the offered load G   D HMA DHMA WMN L T P  14 Similar to \(14\we can get the throughput of CCC under the offered load G      1  1 2  aG aG A CCC WMN Ge ERTSCTS Ep r N Gae T P       15 In \(15 G E RTSCTS   E P  r A  N  G E RTSCTS 16 4.1.2 Thoughput w ith hidden terminals Supposing all the nodes are uniformly distributed in the networks, we estimated the throughput of our system and CCC.  The capture area of node i is circle denoted with I i  c ij is the capture distance of node i  and is the radius of the capture areas of node i  c ij can be denoted with c ij  d ij   is the capture factor and 1   d ij is the distance from node i to node j  Coverage area of node i is the maximum communication area of node i and is denoted with C i   Let H i be the aggregate of node i s hidden terminals Let C  i  j the aggregate of the communication pair  m  n nd iji mC C H    ijj nC C H   Suppose the data transmitted from node i to node j follow Poisson distribution.  Then, the length of the dataês inter-arrival time follows expone ntial distribution, and the average of the inter-arrival time is denoted with G  i  j  O i be the aggregate of hidden terminals during the transmission from node i to node j with RTS-CTS handshake scheme O i is as follows ii ji j OI IIC  17 Let  be the propagation delay from node i to node j  and T RTS be the transmission time of RTS  From e success probability of a transmission from node i to node j in hidden terminal condition as follows       exp       i SRTS mn C i j m O n C mn P i j Gmn T Gmn           18 In our scheme, suppose the spreading code is m-sequence.  Then, we can get the autocorrelation     of the spreading code from     11 1  1 C C C N T T NT             19 in which  is the delay offset of spreading code T C is the chip duration of the spreading code, and n is the length of the spreading code.  Since the medium accesses of two nodes are independent, the delay offset  is uniformly distributed on [0 nT C  Th e expectation of    E     n 1 2 n 2 Suppose the radio signal is transmitted in free space.  From we can get the path loss 2 22 4  tr L GG P d    20 in which G t and G r are the antenna gain of transmitter and receiver respectively  is the wave length of the radio, and d is the distance from transmitter to receiver In CSMA/CA, there is a power sensing threshold of the capture area.  Nodes with sensed power lower than the power sensing threshold take the channel as busy otherwise take the channel as idle.  From \(20\we can denote the power sensing threshold 0 CCC P of CCC as follows  0 2 2 2 4  CCC tr CCC ij GG PP c    21 in which CCC ij c is the capture distance of CCC, and P is the transmission power.  Since spreading code is used in our scheme, th e power sensing threshold 0 D HMA P of DHMA is the product of sensed power and the average autocorrelation of the spreading code.  So 0 D HMA P is as follows   0 2 2 2  4  DHMA tr DHMA ij GG PPE c             2 22 2 3 1 2 4  tr DHMA ij GG n P n c     22 in which D HMA ij c is the capture distance of DHMA, and P is the transmission power.  Supposing the power sensing threshold of CCC and DHMA is equal, from 21\nd \(22\ we can get the ratio  C of capture distances of CCC and our scheme 


 3 1  2 CCC ij C DHMA ij c n c n    23 From \(23\can be seen that  C 1, which indicates that the capture distance of CCC is longer than that of our scheme.  Since the longer of capture distance, the heavier of hidden terminal interference, our scheme has small hidden terminal interference.  Moreover  C  is in direct ratio with n When the length of spreading code is increased  C is increased.  Supposing the capture distance of CCC is constant, we can see that the capture distance of our scheme is decreased when the length of spreading code is increased.  So, the hidden terminal interference in CCC is heavier than that in our scheme, and the hidden terminal interference in our scheme can be removed when the spreading code is long enough  Suppose node i s coverage areas in our scheme and CCC are equal, and they are denoted with C i C i  j  the aggregate of the communication pair m  n d iji mC C H    ijj nC C H   Therefore, C i  j our scheme and CCC are same.  Suppose the transmission power of every node in our scheme and CCC is equal From \(23\an be seen that node i s capture areas in our scheme and CCC are different, and they are denoted with D HMA i I and CCC i I respectively.  From \(17 we can get O i of our scheme and CCC DHMA DHMA DHMA DHMA ii ji j OI IIC  24 CCC CCC CCC CCC ii ji j OI IIC  25 Let   DHMA S Pij and    CCC S Pij be the success transmission probability of our scheme and CCC respectively.  From \(18\ can get   DHMA S Pij and   CCC S Pij       exp       DHMA i DHMA SRTS mn C i j mO nCmn P ij Gmn T Gmn            26      exp       CCC i CCC SRTS mn C i j mO nCmn P ij Gmn T Gmn            27 in which T RTS  and T CTS are the same with that in \(9  The throughputs of our sch eme and CCC with hidden terminals are the product of throughput without hidden terminals and the transmission success probability with hidden terminals, and they are as follows   DHMA DHMA H DHMA S TTPij  28   CCC CCC HCCCS TTPij  29 4.2  Access Delay Access delay is the length of time from a node sending RTS to this node starting to send data.  Access delay D A is the sum of contention access delay D CA and data channel waiting delay D W that is D A  D CA  D W 30 Contention access delay is the length of time from a node sending RTS to this node receiving CTS.  Data channel waiting delay is the length of time from a node receiving the CTS to this node starting to send data  In our scheme, RTS-CTS handshake is used on the control channel, so the collision happens only at RTS period.  Since CSMA/CA is used during RTS according to n get the ave rage c onte ntion  access delay on control channel  1\\(12 1 DHMA CA DHMA DGS a a   31 in which G is the offered load for the WMN S DHMA is the throughput of the control channel defined in \(11 a  is the propagation delay normalized by the transmission time of RTS T RTS   is the ratio of frame length of CTS to that of RTS, and  is ratio of the average length of backoff time E B   transmission time of RTS.  From we c a n get the  average length of backoff time E B   E CW a T RTS Here a* T RTS is the propagation delay.  Then    E B  T RTS   When the RTS-CTS handshake is succeeded transmission of a data packet will be arranged on the data channels.  This process can be modeled as an M/M/1 queuing process.  The average packet arriving rate of the queue is D HMA CC R defined in \(12\, and the average packet serving rate is the product of the throughput of DHMA and the capacity of WMN system, that is DHMA DHMA H H WMN PTP  Then, the average waiting delay D W is the average waiting delay in the queue.  According to Little formula, we can get the average waiting time  DHMA DHMA CC W D HMA DHMA DHMA HH CC R D PP R   32 Replacing D CA and D W in \(32 D HMA CA D and D HMA W D we can get the access delay of our scheme D HMA DHMA DHMA ACAW DDD  33 Similarly, we can get the throughput of CCC under the offered load G      1\\(12\1  1-2  CCC A aG aG G D aa Ge Gae     34 5  System Evaluations and Comparisons Table 1 offers the required parameters of our system and CCC during the evaluation. Suppose the nodes are uniformly distributed.  C i  j e,i e,j\, \(j,g\.  From \(23\n that the capture distance of our scheme is smaller than that of CCC When n 100, the ratio of the two capture distances  C  is 8.2.  Therefore CCC ij c is much larger than D HMA ij c  Since CCC ij c and D HMA ij c are the radiuses of CCC i I  and D HMA i I  CCC i I is larger than D HMA i I From \(24\nd 25\we can see that CCC i O is larger than D HMA i O   Firstly, the throughput of DHMA is estimated.  From 14\we can get the throughput of DHMA without hidden terminals.  The estimation results are shown in 


Figure 2.  When the offered load is increased, the throughput of DHMA is increased at first and decreased when the control channel is overloaded The estimation curve fo r CCC without hidden terminals is similar to that of our scheme.  However because the contentions on control channel of CCC are more serious than that of ours, the throughput of CCC is lower when the offered load is over 23.  When there are hidden terminals, the throughputs of our scheme and CCC are decreased.  Because of the hidden terminal immune property which is analyzed in \(23 our scheme has smaller th roughput reduction than CCC does  Table 1  the evaluation parameter  n N e B B D 100 10 2.718 100MHz 99MHz B C B G1 B G2 n 0 1MHz 2MHz 4.9M Hz 0.005 70dBm RTS CTS E  P  a SIFS 20Byte 14Byte 3000Byte 0.1 0.03 DIFS E G t G r  0.14 90dBm 1 1       0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1        CCC w ith hidden termina l   CCC w ithout hidden term   DHMA w ithout hidden te r   G \(Offered Load Throughput  Figure 2. Throughput vs. of fered load of DHMA and CCC  Then, the access delay of DHMA is estimated.  The access delay of our scheme can be estimated with \(33 Figure 3 shows the estimation results which imply when the offered load is bellow 20, the access delay increases slowly; when the offered load is over 60, the access delay increase quickly.  Comparing with CCC the access delay of our scheme is shorter.  When the offered load is increased, the access delay of our scheme increases slower than that of CCC.  The reason is that the contention window of our scheme can be arranged at any place on the control channel while that of CCC must be arranged between the two data transmissions.  So, when the offered loads in DHMA and CCC are equal, there are fewer RTSs within each contention window in our sche me than those in CCC 6  Conclusions In this paper, we proposed a medium access scheme for multi-channel WMN.  Our scheme is designed to reduce the channel access delay and increase the systemês throughput.  Since CDMA is used to divide sub-channels on data channel, data-rate on each sub-channel can be adjusted by changing the length of spreading code.  Because the transmissions between different communication pairs arenêt synchronized hidden terminal interference can be reduced.  From the theory analyses and performance evaluations, we can see that our scheme has hi gh throughput and short access delay and outperforms CCC    0 20 40 60 80 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4    DHMA   CCC G \(Offered Load Normalized Access Delay  Figure 3. Throughput vs. of fered load of DHMA and CCC Acknowledgements  This work was supported by College Research Fund of NCUT \(07101060125 2009 Scientific Research Fund of NCUT and 2008 Scientific Research Platform and Team Construction Fund of NCUT References  M  B e nveniste and Z  T a o, çP erform ance Evaluation of a Medium Access Control Protocol for IEEE 802.11s Mesh Networks,é Evaluation of MAC proposal for 802.11s http://pubs.research.avaya labs.com/pdfs/CCC_MMAC.pdf Jul. 2005  L. Kleinrock and F A. T obagi, çPacket Switching in Radio Channels: Part I Carrier Sense Multiple-Access Modes and Their Throughput-Delay Characteristics IEEE Transactions on Communications vol. 23, no. 12, Dec. 1975   Aoki et al 802.11 TGs Simple Efficient Extensible Mesh SEE-Mesh IEEE 802.11-05/0562r01, 2005   N. Choi, Y. S e ok and Y. Choi  M ulti-Channel MAC Protocol  for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Proc. of IEEE VTC 2003Fall  vol. 2, pp. 13791382, Oct. 2003  N. Liu Wireless Local Area Networks  WLAN  Principle Technique and Application Press of Xidian University, pp 239-243, 2004  A. Tzam aloukas and J. J Garcia-Luna-Aceves, çA Receiver-Initiated Collision-Avoidance Protocol for Multi-Channel Networks,é Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM 2001 vol. 1, pp. 189-198, Apr. 2001  A. Nasipuri and S. R. Das M ultichannel CSMA with Signal Power-Based Channel Selection for Multihop Wireless Networks Proc. of IEEE VTC 2000Fall vol. 1, pp. 211-218 Sept. 2000  J. Y. N. Hui, çThroughput Anal y s is for Code Division  Multiple Accessing of the Spread Spectrum Channel IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications vol. SAC-2, no 4, pp. 482-486, 1984  A. Golds m ith Wireless Communications Press of Cambrigde University, pp.387-390, 2005   F Cali  M  Conti and E Gr egor i, çI EEE 802 11 W i r e les s LAN Capacity Analysis and Protocol Enhancement Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM 1998, vol. 1, pp. 142-149, Mar.-Apr. 1998  


REFERENCES l l 1 Lt Col D M Stroud P P Tran Enabling amIa1 Transformation with TSAT MILCOM 2005 October 2005 243 2 J P Pandya A Narula-Tam H Yao J S Wysocarski   Link-Layer Dynamic Resource Allocation for TCP over Satellite Networks MILCOM 2005 October  2 0 0 5  3 B Grayver and P Dafesh Multi-Modulation Programmable Transceiver System with Turbo Coding IEEE Aerospace B Sky MT 2005 4  McDnal R Spela B Grye N Wagner Real-Time Hardware/Software Approach to Phase Figure 11 Video frame high bandwidth high data rate Noise E atin,reEE ApaceaBi Sy MT Noise Emulation IEEE Aerospace Big Sky MT 2006 5 J.F An A.M.D Turkmani J.D Parsons Implementation of a DSP-based frequency nonselecting fading simulator 5th International Conference on Radio Receivers and Associated Systems 1989  6 Emmanuel Boution and Jean-Luc Danger an Ade Ghazel Design of High Speed AWGN Communication Cannel Emul ator An aog Integrated Circuits and Signal Processing Volume 34  Issue 2 February 2003 http www.videolan.org 8 H.264/MPEG-4 AVC"I Figure 12 Video frame low bandwidth high data rate http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H.264/MPEG-4_AVC Lower half of frame has been corrupted due to excessive 9 http://wiki.videolan.org/RTP dropped packets BIOGRAPHY Eugene Grayver received a B.S degree in electrical eg e ngin eeig fo Caltech nand e hD egree from receivers In 2003 he joined The is wokingon fexi AerospancetCorsporationwhres Hes Figure 13 Video frame low bandwidth low data rate i okn nfeil omnctospafrs i Img qult reue bu functioal research interests include reconfigurable implementations of digital signal processing algorithms low-power VLSI circuits for communications and system design of wireless data communication systems Eugene is currently working 7 


on integrating error correction coding with high-order modulations and on software-defined and cognitive radio research He has published 7 journal articles and over a dozen conference papers Jiayu Chen joined The Aerospace Corporation in July 2005 His responsibilities include various satellite communication networking areas such as network protocols quality of service QoS resource management routing etc Prior to joining The Aerospace Corporation Jiayu worked for AT&T Labs formerly AT&T Bell Labs for 19 years contributing to the transformation of the AT&T telephony network including dynamic routing evolution and circuit switching to packet switching transition His work included voice over IP VoIP network architecture dynamic routing numbering planning network integration and testing Jiayu received his BS degree in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University in 1981 He received his MS and PhD degrees both in Electrical Engineering from University of Southen Califoria in 1983 and 1986 respectively At USC his research included optical and radar target detection and medical applications of robotics Alex Utter received a B.S.E from Harvey Mudd College in 2005 and a M.S in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 2007 He joined The Aerospace Corporation in 2007 His areas of expertise include software and hardware design for digital electronic systems especially design of FPGAand microprocessor-based systems All trademarks service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners 8 


18  Latchem. C. & Walker, D Telecentres: Case Studies and Key Issues Vancouver: The Commonwealth of Learning. 2001 19  Lichtenstein, G.A. and Lyons, T.S. "The entrepreneurial development system: Transforming business talent and community economies Economic Development Quarterly 15:1\, 2001, pp.3-20 20  Mansell, R., & Wehn, U Knowledge Societies Information Technology for Sustainable Development  Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998 21  Moore, G. and Benbasat, I Development of an instrument to measure the perceptions of adopting an information technology innovation Information Systems Research, \(2:3\ 192-222. 1991  22  Mosse E. L. and Sahay, S The Role of Communication Practices in the Strengthening of Counter Networks Case Experiences from the Health sector of Mozambique  Information Technology for  Development 11:3\, 2005 23  Nidumolu, S., Goodman, S., Vogel, D., and Danowitz A Information Technology for Local Administration Support: 1996 24  O'Farrell, C., Norrish, P., & Scott, A Information and Communication Technologies \(ICTs\ for Sustainable Livelihoods Burton Hall: Intermediate Technology Development Group. 1999 25  Owen, W., and Darkwa, O Role of Multipurpose Community Telecentres in Accelerating National Development in Ghana First Monday, Vol 5 No 1, pp 1-23, 1999 26  Piscitello, L., and Sgobbi, F Globalisation, E-Business and SMEs: Evidence from the Italian District of Prato  Small Business Economics Vol. 22, No. 5, June 2004 pg. 333 27  Preis-Heje, J., Baskerville, R. and Hansen, G Strategy Models for Enabling Offshore Outsourcing: Russian Short-Cycle-Time Software Development  Information Technology for Development 11:1\, 2005 28  Qiang CZ, Clarke GR, Halewood N. The Role of ICT In Doing Business Information and Communications for Development Global Trends and Policies, World Bank ed\orld Bank: Washington DC, 2006 29  Qureshi, S., Kamal, M  and Good, T.G Adoption of Information Technology by Micro-enterprises: Insights from a rural community  Proceedings of the 14th Annual Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS-14 Toronto, Canada. 2008 30  Qureshi, S., Kamal, M., and Wolcott, P Sustainability of Information Technology Therapy on Micro-enterprise Development HICSS. 2008 31  Qureshi, S How does Information technology effect Development? Integrating Theory and Practice into a Process Model  Proceedings of the eleventh Americas Conference on Information Systems Omaha, NE. 2005 32  Qureshi, S Fostering Associations in Africa through Networking  Information Infrastructure and Policy 1998, pp. 1-13 33  Raymond L, Bergeron F, Blili S. The assimilation of Ebusiness in manufacturing SMEs: determinants and effects on growth and internationalization. Electronic Markets 15\(2\: 106 118. 2005 34  Rodrigo, M. M. T Tradition or transformation? An evaluation of ICTs in Metro Manila schools  Information Technology for Development 10:2\, 2003 pp. 95-123 35  Rodrigues, A.J. and Govinda, S Towards an integrated management information system: A case of the University of Mauritius  Information Technology for  Development 10:1\, 2003, pp. 41-57 36  Sanders, C.K. "The impact of micro-enterprise assistance programs: A comparative study of program participants, non participants, and other low-wage workers," Social Service Review, \(76:2\.321-40 2002 37  Scheepers, H. and de Villiers, C Teaching of a computer literacy course in South Africa: A case study using traditional and co-operative learning  Information  Technology for Development 9:3\2000, pp. 175-188 38  Schreiner, M., & Woller, G Micro-enterprise Development Programs in the United States and in the Developing World  World Development 31:9\, pp 1567-1580, 2003 39  Southwood R. ICTs and Small Enterprise: A Motor of Economic Development in Africa, IICD Research Briefs, IICD, The Hague: IICD Research Briefs 9. 2004 40  Steinberg, J Information Technology and Development Beyond Either/Or  The Brookings Review 21\(2\:45-48. 2003 41  Tan F. and Leewongcharoen, K IT Industry Success In A Developing Country: The Case Of Thailand  Journal  of Information Technology for Development 11:2 2005 42  Thompson, R., Higgins, C. and Howell, J Personal computing:  Toward a conceptual model of utilization  MIS Quarterly 15:1\4-143. 1991  43  Venkatesh, V., Morris, M., Davis, G. and F. Davis User Acceptance of Information Technology: Toward a Unified View MIS Quarterly 27:3\ pp 425-478 2003  44  Walsham, G. and Sahay, S GIS for district-level administration in India: Problems and opportunities  MIS Quarterly 23:1\, 1999, pp. 39-65  45  Wolcott, P., Qureshi, S. and Kamal, M. "An Information Technology Therapy Approach to Micro-enterprise Adoption of ICTs" Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS\007  46  Barba-Sanchez, V., Martinez-Ruiz, M.P., and JimenezZarco, A.I Drivers, Benefits and Challenges of ICT Adoption by Small and Medium Sized Enterprises SMEs\ Literature Review  Problems and Perspectives in Management Vol. 5 No. 1, pg. 103 2007 47  Brady, M., Saren, M. and Tzokas, N Integrating Information Technology into Marketing Practice The IT Realize of Contemporary Marketing Practice  Journal of Marketing Management Vol. 18, pg. 555577. 2002  48  Strauss, A. and Corbin, J Basics of Qualitative Research: Grounded Theory Procedures and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Techniques Newbusry Park, CA and London: Sage Publications. 1990  49  Walsham, G. Interpretive case studies in IS research Nature and method European Journal of Information Systems  4 2\ 64 81. 1995  50  Patton, M. Q. Qualitative research and evaluation methods \(3rd ed.\housand Oakes, CA:Sage Publications, Inc. 2002   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


