Diversity as a Knowledge Resource in Top Management Teams a Framework for Agent-Based Modeling Vera Stolarski European Business School vera.stolarski@ebs-siie.de Prof. Dr. Meike Tilebein European Business School meike.tilebein@ebs-siie.de Abstract The current paper reveals and explains inconsistencies in c ognitive diversity research regarding diversity eff ects on top management team information processing as a presumption for team performance. On the one hand diversity constitutes a resource by enlarging the knowledge-pool of the team and therefore potentially contributes to team 
and organisational performance. On the other hand diversity can act as a barrier and hinder access to the knowledge. The paper refers to limitations of empirical research designs and discusses different simulation approaches as alternative research methods. Following the first steps of a roadmap for using simulation given by Davis et al. \(2007\ a framework, comprising relevant moderator and mediator variables of the team diversity information processing relationship, is identified Finally agent based simulation is acknowledged as method to clarify the team diversity Ö team performance relationship in future research and further steps of the roadmap are outlined 1 Introduction 
Striving for market success, organizations try to establish heterogeneous top management teams TMTs\ more than ever, enhancing diversity in terms of age, educational background socioeconomic background and functional experience [20, 32 A ccordin g to th e u pper echelon perspective TMT characteristics like values, experiences and personalities influence TMT interpretations of the strategic situations they face which in turn affect social and psychological processes of the team T h es e ag ai n tak e  influence on team information processing which 
can be defined as the way teams reflect, perceive interpret, store, retrieve, transmit and use inform h is a g ai n is cru cial f o r T MT performance and therefore for the performance of the organization, e.g. for strategy innovations [19    Hence TMTs can be regarded as the aggregate informational and decisional entity through which competitive moves are made, TMT characteristics are a matter of particular interest in diversity research  T h e g r eat pro m i s e of div er s i t y i s an increased knowledge pool, leading e.g. to an extensive range of perspectives and thus potentially enhancing team performace [25, 36 u t still th ere  
are several risks associated with diversity, e.g conflict. Delivering ambiguous results, numerous empirical studies focus on the link between TMT diversity and information processing [25, 27, 31 32 c o nsid e r ing i n fo r m a tio n p r o c e ssi ng a s a  presumption for team performance or strategic firm performance. Therefore diversity potentially constitutes a resource, providing an enlarged knowledge pool to a team. But still there are no definite implications for how to benefit from this knowledge resource, respectively how to manage a diverse team successfully 
The current paper suggests to clarify the contradictory diversity debate by applying a simulation model. Following the first steps of a roadmap for using simulation given by Davis et al 2007\ramework comprising relevant moderator and mediator variables is identified and different simulation approaches are discussed. The current paper is organized as follows In section 2 basic concepts of diversity, in particular cognitive diversity that accounts for differences in information processing, and diversity effects are introduced. The occurrence of 
contradictory findings in empirical diversity research calls for a closer look at potential reasons for the inconsistencies in section 3. Consequently a simulation approach is considered as alternative research method in section 4.1. Following the first steps of the simulation roadmap by Davis et al 2007\mprehensive literature review on empirical research in cognitive TMT diversity is provided in section 4.2. Comprising the relevant moderator and mediator variables, a framework for modeling the complex relationship between diversity and information processing is developed 
Reviewing state of the art technical literature on simulation methods in section 4.3 reveals agent based simulation as the appropriate approach for modelling team diversity and information processing, for which two examplary computational representations from the literature are described. In Section 5 we summarize and discuss our findings from the first steps towards simulation-based research in the diversity debate and outline the next steps Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


2 Theoretical Concepts and Background 2.1 Top Management Team Cognitive Diversity In former research various definitions and categories of diversity have been utilised. For instance Simons, Pelled, and Smith \(1999 distinguish different kinds of diversity depending on their job-relatedness h ey e x a m in e t h ree  types of job related diversity \(functional background, educational level, tenure\d one less job related variable \(age\ The authors refer to all four variables as çdemographicsé while other researchers [e.g def in e de m o g r aph ic div er s i t y  in terms of age, gender, cultural background, and so forth. As deep level differences \(e.g. attitudes, or cognitions\much more potent in group interactions than surface-level demographic differences e cu rrent paper f o cu s e s on cognitive diversity Most aspects that account for cognitive diversity are so called deep level differences, like cognitions beliefs, and attitudes, opposed to surface demographic differen d can n o t be  directly measured. Therefore proxies like functional, or educational background, firm tenure industry experience, and educational level are widely used in empirical research 4 20, 36  Functional background diversity represents the range of specialists, e.g. members from marketing finance, human resources, as well as members from research and development in a TMT. Functionally diverse management teams possess depth in their respective individual areas but not breadth across a range of othe t a n d Bunderson \(2005\or example refer to expertise diversity speaking of the range of domains in a team  Firm tenure is defined as the time a person is employed at a certain company. It takes influence on aspects like tolerance, perspectives and attitudes 4 The concept of experience diversity characterises differences in job or industry experience, which is supposed to take influence on knowledge and knowledge processing capabilities e.g. availability of schemata facilitating decision making  Educational diversity reflects the balance and breadth in years of school education Educational levels relate to knowledge structures and information processing. Education enables individuals to understand what they know, predict outcomes, manage time or resources, monitor results and provides problem solving abilities [39  Thus education takes influence on cognitive structures and mental maps 2.2 Effects of Diversity on Information Processing Individual cognitive differences lead to differences in human information processing Individual information processing reflects how a person perceives, memorizes and uses information  T eam l e v el i n f o rm ation proces s i ng characterises how teams perceive, interpret, store retrieve, transmit and use information, and how they come to a decision [2, 19 Former research revealed ambiguous results concerning the effects of TMT cognitive diversity on information processing and related team performance variables. For instance Bunderson and Sutcliffe \(2002\ identified ten different studies revealing different relationships between TMT functional diversity and performance variables each 7  Find ing s i n d i ve r sit y r e se a r c h i m p l y t h a t  diversity offers great opportunities and at the same time an enormous challenge  Several benefits have been attributed to cognitive diversity, e.g. increased breadth of perspectives, enlarged knowledge pool, cognitive resources and improved overall problem solving capacity of groups a l u able dis s i m ilar  underlying assumptions ccording to Milli k e n and Martins \(1996\ersity generates creativity and innovation by accessing diverse mental models of TMT members g i ng to g e th er  representatives from all relevant areas might lead to gathering the full range of perspectives and issues that are crucial to a collective ventur rth er  more, diversity may lead to a better acquisition and assimilation of new external knowledge [24 a n d  thereby can contribute to the organisationês adaptivity w h ic h aff ect s th e o v erall corporate performance in a beneficial way  At the same time, as often confirmed in the past a number of risks seem to be associated with highly diverse teams, e.g. conf stan ce Mi ller  et al. \(1998\clude that TMT diversity inhibits extensive long-range planning and comprehensive examinations of current opportunities and threats 31 Referring to social categorization theory and social identification theory [4 f licts a m ong heterogeneous individuals emerge because of labelling processes, self-identification with certain groups while valorising the own group and devaluating the other group. These processes can seriously constrict cohesion, obstruct communication and hinder collaborative problem solving [41   Pelled et al. \(1999\howed that different types of diversity may lead to different categories of conflict: Race and tenure diversity predominantly cause emotional conflicts, which are potentially detrimental to team processes, because they Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


originate communication n c tion a l  background diversity leads to task conflict, which is partially beneficial to team performance, as it enhances task related debate among team members and therefore facilitates knowledge sharing. Still even beneficial conflict can cause unwanted costs e.g. due to difficulties in information sharing  Therefore on the one hand a highly homogenous team might not realize innovative solutions because its ability to scan the business landscape for creative ideas is limited in comparison to more heterogeneous teams. On the other hand a highly diverse team might suffer from poor communication and the obstruction of knowledge sharing which again lowers innovativeness [4   The diversity-benefits and diversity-conflicts relationships described above demonstrate the enormity of interacting and intertwined variables in diversity research. Hence the relationship between TMT cognitive diversity and information processing is not clear up till now  Accordingly diversity can enhance or hinder a teamês ability to use the knowledge provided by heterogeneity itself  T h eref ore it ap pears  desirable to take influence on the makeup or the interaction processes of a team to achieve a balance between risk and rewa d to m a x i m i ze t h e  information processing capab ility of the team. The positive effects of TMT diversity might only surface under certain conditions that enhance the benefits and diminishes the costs T h is requ ires  knowing the relevant moderator and mediator variables of cognitive diversity and information processing in TMTs. Even though contemporary models of diversity seem able to explain the positive and the negative effects of diversity, they are not able to determine when each occurs alone how to manage a diverse team In sum, TMT diversity can constitute a valuable knowledge resource for an organization [4, 9  B u t  there is empirical support for TMT diversity to be both a facilitator and a barrier to knowledge sharing and team performance. Reasons for these inconsistent results are discussed in the following section 3 Reasons for Inconsistent Results 3.1 Inconsistencies in Diversity Research Aside from incorrect theories, falsely hypothesised relationships or illegitimate operationa e in co n s i s te n t  categorisation and nomenclature of diversity-types additionally to the use of varying proxies as described above impede comparability of research results [36    Further more several auth ery t h e  adequacy of the proxies: As explained in Section 2.2, often demographic differences have been measured in order to approximate underlying variables like cognitions. Certainly demographic variables are easy to access and rather reliable However, the validity of using demographic data for approximating underlying characteristics must be called into question [32, 36 stead dee p lev el characteristics like individual differences regarding personal identities, personality, skills, and cognitions of team members should be assessed  i n g rich cogn itive data on variables like goals or beliefs requires extensive interviews or questionnaires [31 Measu rin g th e is su e it sel f in a  direct manner would require experimentation or at least observation, which is very difficult to realize in organisational research let alone upper echelon research  3.2 Complexity and Dynamic Interactions Unmeasured moderator, mediator, intervening independent or dependent variables possibly contribute most predominantly to the observed inconsistency of empirical studies as described above [9, 20, 36 In f o rm e r cog n itiv e div er s i t y  research mediating or moderating variables have not been considered in full rang  Further there is evidence for the necessity to treat diversity as a multifaceted construct \(see section 2\whose facets interact with team processes and doing so take influence on team performance in the course of tim So as ide  from the complexity of the subject matter the underlying processes of information processing in diverse teams are highly dynamic. Longitudinal research, very complex research designs and large samples would be necessary to understand the effects of time on the relationship between diversity and knowledge use [13, 36  However, the ambiguous results described in section 2 cast into doubt if empirical research designs can satisfy the criteria of representing all relevant variables and taking account of the dynamics evolving between the variables Therefore simulation methods are considered as an alternative research approach in the next section 4 Resolving the Shortcomings of Diversity Research with Simulation 4.1 Simulation as an Appropriate Method Colbert \(2004\uggests accepting the dynamic and emergent properties as key features of complex systems like ecosystems, organisations or HR systems. Instead of testing discrete phenomena the interacting processes of the elements of a social system should be seen as a coherent whole with managerial leverage points [10  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


Superior insight into complex relationships between ranges of variables can be provided by simulation methods L a w an d Kel t on 1991  define simulation as a method for using computer software to model the operation of çreal-world processes, systems, or events. Simulation can reveal interactions between various underlying organizational and strategic processes, particularly as they evolve over time. Thus allowing computational experimentation, simulation approaches can contribute to theory development specifying and extending extant theories Simulation is very valuable for explaining longitudinal, processual and dynamic phenomena being time and data demanding. Even nonlinear phenomena like feedback loops, tipping points or thresholds can be analyzed this way rth er  more there is no need for proxies in simulation Depending on the respective simulation approach observations about social actors can be immediately translated into a m  According to Davis et al. \(2007\sing simulation for theory building in strategy and organizational research is particularly promising when the research question shows one of three specific characteristics: First, it addresses a fundamental phenomenon with limited theoretical backing or multiple theoretical roots. Second longitudinal interactions that would be difficult to study empirically play a major role. Thirdly, the research question focuses on an essential tension or trade-off With respect to all of these three characteristics the TMT diversity debate qualifies for a simulation study. First, in section 2.2 we have elaborated on the fragmented and contradictory results of empirical TMT diversity research, lacking an answer to the fundamental question of how to benefit from diversity as a knowledge resource Furthermore, as shown in Section 3.2 there is some support in the literature for the dynamic nature of the problem, with information processes in diverse teams as well as diversity itself changing over time in the course of team interactions. Thirdly, the contrarian effects of TMT diversity that can be either beneficial or obstructive characterize the trade-off problem in diversity management With the TMT diversity debate being a promising subject, next steps towards a simulation study on this topic are described in the following 4.2 Identifying Relevant Variables for a Comprehensive Framework In order to design a realistic simulation model and to derive reliable insights the underlying theoretical concepts must be acknowledg Davis et al. \(2007, p. 482\refer to this second step of their simulation roadmap as the identification of major variables and interacting processes, or simple theoryé, with a focus on intertwined processes, non-linearities and longitudinal effects associated with the research question Recognizing the neglection of relevant variables as the central methodological shortcoming of empirical research, the full range of moderator and mediator variables of TMT cognitive diversity effects has to be identified. Therefore an extensive literature review on the relationship between cognitive diversity and information processing was conducted. Primarily papers concerning TMTs were incorporated. Supplementations from non-TMT cognitive diversity research were made only if they add crucial insights to the diversity - information processing relationship. Information processing itself was defined in a broader sense due to its entangled relationship to several performance variables, e.g. team performance or strategic decision making \(see section 2.3\. Additionally the social network perspective provides crucial insights into diversity effects [e.g  T h u s  v a riables identified in social network research were incorporated into the framework described below The results of the literature review are shown in Table 1. The variables in the third and fourth column refer to the framework shown in Figure 1 comprising all relevant identified moderator and mediator variables of the relationship between TMT cognitive diversity and information processing. In order to avoid misunderstandings due to inconsistent nomenclature, single variables were summarized if their content allowed for it. For example the moderator variable çenvironmental turbulencesé in line two of Table 1 is relabelled task complexityé. The variables in Fig. 1 are grouped according to their specific context \(social categorization, team climate, ability and team processes as well as environmental characteristics and are arranged in columns from left to right In the upper part of the framework \(Fig. 1 relevant mediator variables are displayed. One of the moderator variables çAffective and Evaluative Reactioné is additionally affected by Stereotypes and Bias  w h ic h ag ai n is inf l u e n ced b y  Cognitive Diversity itself. At the bottom of the framework three variables mediate the relationship between cognitive diversity and information processing. Again one of them, çtie strengthé, is affected by the number of exchange partners. The framework combines the whole range of variables identified by the referenced empirical studies. Still more interactions between the incorporated variables are thinkable, although not being detected yet. Due to space limitations, just one moderator variable \(task complexity\ and one mediator variable \(tie strength\will be specified exemplarily The relationship between TMT cognitive diversity and firm performance is moderated by task complexity Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 T a b l e  1   L i t e r a t u r e  R e v i e w   M o d e r a t o r  a n d  M e d i a t o r  V a r i a b l e s  o f  t h e  T M T  C o g n i t i v e  D i v e r s i t y    I n f o r m a t i o n  P r o c e s s i n g  R e l a t i o n s h i p  Author Proxies for cognitive diversity identified moderator variables identified mediator variables output variables Auh, and Menguc 2005a functional background gained through career ex p erience and educatio n interfunctional coordination innovativeness Auh, and Menguc 2005b functional background gained through career experience and education interfunctional coordination environmental turbulence \(Fig. 1 task complexity strategic orientation Burt \(2004 group-affiliation structural holes  Fi g 1: tie stren g th  good ideas, creativity Carpenter \(2002 educational background work experience, tenure task complexity firm performance Return on Assets Cronin, and Weingart \(2007 educational background representational gaps information processing, conflict Cross, Liedtka and Weiss \(2005 functional background educational background business experience task environments \(Fig. 1: task complexity\,  network structures Fig. 1: intragroup interdependence innovativeness Dahlin, Weingart and Hinds \(2005 educational background task characteristics \(Fig. 1: task complexity\, social categorization Fig. 1: Stereotypes and bias information use Granovetter 1973 affiliation to a network tie strength diffusion of influence and information Kauer, zu Waldec, and Sch‰ffer \(2007 experience, personality network abilities \(Fig. 1: integration abilities\, achievement motivation here: task motivation\dership action orientatio n strategic decision making Van Knippenberg De Dreu, and Homan \(2004 functional and educational background task motivation, task ability affective and evaluative reactions influenced by stereotypes and bias creativity and innovation, decision quality Miller, Burke, and Glick \(1998 4 questionnaire items: 2 on preferred goales for the firm, 2 on beliefs decision comprehensiveness strategic decision process Olson, Bao, and Parayitam \(1998 dis\greement of executives on key firm ideals trust commitment and decision quality Pelled Eisenhardt, and Xin \(1999 functional background tenure, age, race task routineness \(Fig. 1: task complexity task performance conflict Perry-Smith, and Shalley \(2003 affiliation to a network tie strength influenced by the number of ties creativity Simons, Pelled and Smith \(1999 company tenure, functional background, educational level debate decision comprehensiveness financial performance profitability and sales growth Van der Vegt, and Bunderson \(2005 expertise collective team identification team learning, team performance Van der Vegt, and Janssen \(2001 questionnaire: to what extent members differ in their way of thinking knowledge and skills intragroup interdependence individual in-role job performance and innovative behaviour in the workplace West \(2002 e.g. professional background, knowledge skills, abilities integration abilities, intragroup safety creativity and innovation implementation Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Mediator Variables Moderator Variables  Cognitive Diversity  Information Processing  Tie Strength Number of Exchange Partners Decision Comprehensiveness and Extensiveness Representational Gaps Affective and Evaluative Reaction Stereotypes and Bias Collective Team Identification Task Motivation Intragroup Safety Trust Task Ability Debate Integration Ability Interfunctional Coordination Task Complexity Individual Task and Positive Goal Interdependence Leadership Team Performance Strategic Performance Mediator Variables Moderator Variables Cognitive Diversity Information Processing Tie Strength Number of Exchange Partners Decision Comprehensiveness and Extensiveness Representational Gaps Affective and Evaluative Reaction Stereotypes and Bias Collective Team Identification Task Motivation Intragroup Safety Trust Task Ability Debate Integration Ability Interfunctional Coordination Task Complexity Individual Task and Positive Goal Interdependence Leadership Team Performance Strategic Performance Mediator Variables Moderator Variables Cognitive Diversity Information Processing Tie Strength Number of Exchange Partners Decision Comprehensiveness and Extensiveness Representational Gaps Affective and Evaluative Reaction Stereotypes and Bias Collective Team Identification Task Motivation Intragroup Safety Trust Task Ability Debate Integration Ability Interfunctional Coordination Task Complexity Individual Task and Positive Goal Interdependence Leadership Team Performance Strategic Performance F i g u r e  1   I d e n t i f i e d  M o d e r a t o r  a n d  M e d i a t o r  V a r i a b l e s  o f  T M T  C o g n i t i v e  D i v e r s i t y  E f f e c t s  Hence in highly complex settings, here defined as high level of internationalisation, cognitive diversity had a negative effect on performance while at low levels of complexity the benefits of cognitive diversity became evident. The author reasons that the benefits of diversity are threatened by time pressures and uncertainty potentially due to a loss of team coherence and behavioural integration in the face of highly complex environments. Auh and Menguc \(2005b ascertain the effect of environmental turbulence on strategic orientation and attain results supporting Carpenter \(2002\ontradictory Pitcher and Smith 2001\e from their findings that heterogeneity is advantageous especially in turbulent competitive environments. Further more there is evidence that the nature of the task itsel el y tas k  requireme es in f l u e n ce on t h e u tilit y of diversity Tie strength mediates the cognitive diversity information processing relationship. Strong ties typically link similar people in dense social circles with frequent interactions, high emotional closeness and reciprocity In div i du al s f r o m di f f e re n t  social circles are often connected by what is known as weak tiesç. Weak ties involve low communication frequency, low emotionally closeness and one way exchanges ties of te n e m erg e bet w een people with dissimilar perspectives, diverse outlooks varying interests and different approaches to problems   In this regard Burt \(2004\cribes structural holes emerging amongst heterogenic individuals and contributing to innovative outcomes.  If weak ties connect different social circles without any other direct relationships between the members of the groups access to a wide array of information is provided  [17  d a v a riet y o f proces s e s bei ng h e lp f u l f o r creativity are facilita  Additionally two repercussive variables, composing feedback loops as shown in Fig 1, where identified by literature research. First Akaishi and Arita \(2002 found out that accurate communication \(in the current paper understood as effective information processing itself reversely takes influence on cognitive diversity Among the considered literature, this is the first and only study, applying a simulation approach \(see section 4.3 econ d Kilduf f et  al. \(2000  certain ed an interaction between team performance and cognitive diversity itself 4.3 Choosing a Simulation Approach After having identified the major variables and interacting processes in the context of our research question, the next step of the simulation roadmap is to choose an appropriate simulation approach h is  simulation method should be able to model the interactions of diverse team members and their information processing performance over time within the identified framework in Figure 1. Furthermore, it should be able to capture the nonlinear, recursive or feedback nature of the system, with team members adapting to team interactions and thus team diversity and influencing factors changing under ongoing information processing activities There are three main simulation schools that are used to model information processing problems in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


organizations, discrete event simulation, System Dynamics, and Agent-Based Simulation In discrete event simulations all system changes are triggered by outside events with the system itself remaining unchanged. Given these limitations, it is obvious that this simulation approach has two major shortfalls with regard to our research problem. First individual or team information processing covers a broader range of activities than just reacting to inputs from the outside, e.g. actively producing or searching for information, as stated in Section 2.2. Secondly discrete event simulation cannot deal appropriately with the feedback nature of the system, where not only system behaviour, but also system structure characteristics can change adaptively, e.g. tie strength or diversity. Therefore we consider discrete event simulation inappropriate for our specific modelling needs System Dynamics takes an aggregate view on a system, not focusing on external events nor on the behaviour of a single system element, but rather on the overall systemês structure, which accounts for the system behaviour over time. A System Dynamics model typically consists of different interacting feedback loops. On a more detailed level, these loops include a number of system state variables, called stocks, along with flow variables that can change the state of the stocks  However, feedback loops are the system structureês basic building blocks driving the system behaviour in System Dynamics simulations. The identification and simulation of feedback loops in the system under investigation can even be called a core paradigm of that modelling approach T h is  un derl y i n g  feedback loop structure accounts for the overall systemês behaviour. Qualitative changes in system behaviour known as tipping point result from changing loop dominance in the existing system structure, which remains unchanged during simulation in this modelling approach [3  With regard to our research problem, a System Dynamics model obviously would be able to capture the aggregate feedback structure underlying the information processing behaviour of a diverse TMT on a macro level. On a micro level, System Dynamics has also proven helpful gaining insights in the dynamics of an individual personês behaviour, e.g by Homer \(1985 modelling the interplay between an individualês goals perceptions and actions in the occurrence of burn-out  e v er w h i l e  Sy s t e m  D y n a m i c s co u l d be us ed to model the fixed underlying structures of the macro as well as the micro level of our framework, this modelling approach is not suited for capturing a structural change on either level, let alone those stuctural adaptations resulting from an interplay of the two levels Hence, if we assume that in the problem under investigation the system structure itself can change and moreover, if our research problem is of a multilevel type, it is Agent Based Simulation that seems most appropriate to model such a system. Agent Based Simulation is a bottom-up simulation approach  It aim s at m odelling th e in div id u al beh aviou r an d interactions of a systemês micro-level entities, called agents, with the overall multiagent systemês properties resulting emergently from these interactions and in turn setting conditions for the individualsê behaviour Dependent on the specific simulation method used, e.g cellular automata, Boolean networks, artificial neural nets or genetic algorithms, these emergent properties can either relate to order formation or even include innovation [42   As Wooldridge \(2004\multiagent systems are unique in being computational information processing entities g en ts are de sign e d to act  upon individual goals being assigned to them. In this means their behaviour is self-induced [10, 18, 43  After a task has been delegated to an agent it figures out for itself what has to be done without being told explicitly every single step. Agents optimize their behaviour and evaluate goals accordant to programmed incentives portan t con cern i n g th e c u rren t  issue agents possess schemes determining the behaviour towards and the information exchange with other agen T h eref ore m u ltia g e n t s y s t e m s enable to simulate the emergence of cooperation in social groups, the communication of beliefs and aspirations, the negotiation with or without resorting to conflict, and the coordination of activities   Furthermore agents are able to interact not only among themselves, but also with their environment. In other words they sense their environment and react adaptively  Altogether agentsê behaviour is situation dependent and cannot be pre-estimated. In this means agents are capable of self-contained planning and organising their behaviour in order to achieve their implanted objectives. Hence it is possible to simulate planning knowledge, opinions, motivations and emotions Recaptulatory, with regard to our research problem Agent-Based Simulation seems to be particularly wellsuited to model TMT diversity and information processing. The respective TMT characteristics and other relevant variables shown in Fig. 1 could be modelled in a multiagent system, allowing for experimentation and clarification of the contradictory empirical findings. However, up to now there are few papers that make use of Agent-Based Simulation with regard to cognitive diversity Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


One example is given by Boisot and Child \(1999 who apply Boolean networks \(NK-models\ to strategy processes. These can be considered team information processing activities that depend on differences in the team membersê or agentsê individual information processing as well as on the speed of information diffusion through the network of agents [6  T h e authors relate the cognitive complexity of strategies to the relational complexity of the strategy processes Relational complexity increases with the number of agents that are linked in the system. Cognitive complexity is high when the codification of information is low and the degree of information abstractness is low, too. Under these conditions information needs to be interpreted by every single agent to which it is passed. This bears the risk of misinterpretation and may lead to great diversity in information processing. In analogy to Kauffmanês 1993\eneral insights on Boolean Networks e authors find that there are only a few combinations of cognitive complexity and relational complexity that lead to effective strategy processes A l t h oug h ba s e d on very simple computational representations of information processing and focusing on strategy rather than on strategy maker characteristics, this model provides first hints towards computational representation of diversity Another example is given by Akaishi and Arita 2002\based on an ant food foraging m h e  authors design agents being diverse in means of the divergence of their so called resource maps. Those maps function as belief systems and comprise information on food resources which the agents have to obtain. The diversity of those belief systems positively affects the diversity of the agentsê behaviour To summarize, while agent-based modelling has been shown to be the most appropriate modelling approach for our research problem, and there is an extensive literature on agent-based simulation models in general, the diversity debate has not been addressed intensively by this literature yet Hence, there is little to draw on and the next challenge will be to stepwise design a computational representation that fits the system outlined in Fig. 1 5. Discussion and Conclusion Depending on numerous moderator and mediator variables, diversity can constitute a resource, providing an enlarged knowledge pool to a team. Empirical research did neither clarify the relationship between cognitive diversity and information processing nor deliver definite implications for how to benefit from this knowledge resource, respectively how to manage a diverse team successfully The current paper suggests resolving the diversity debate by applying a simulation model. Following the first steps of a roadmap for using simulation given by Davis et al. \(2007\ramework comprising relevant moderator and mediator variables is identified and different simulation approaches are discussed Integrating relevant moderator and mediator variables of the relationship between cognitive diversity and information processing in TMTs, the framework in Fig 1 reveals a very complex and highly dynamic matter of interest. The highly complex and dynamic interactions of diversity and its effects additional to the need for modelling individual behaviour and interactions of the systemês micro-level entities provide evidence for agent based simulation as a promising methodological approach Agent based simulation allows for integration of the identified relevant variables by programming the schemes of agents. Hence multiple autonomous entities interact with each other and strive to carry out a task being assigned to them. Due to the agentsê ability to interact with each other and to react to environmental factors in a self-induced manner, the resulting behaviour cannot be pre-estimated. This enables to observe developments on a micro level, e.g. knowledge sharing, the emergence of cooperation and conflict or the coordination of activities, along with the emergent macro-level properties resulting in team performance Even in a multiagent system it obviously is not possible to consider every single variable, possibly taking influence on diversity effects. For instance our framework does not include organisational structures In this sense simulation simplifies the reality, yet allows for more complex considerations than any empirical research method. As described above classical empirical research tools are unlikely to capture the complexity and the dynamic of the relationships shown above \(see Fig. 1 Next steps according to the simulation roadmap given by Davis et al. \(2007\will be to operationalise the identified theoretical constructs for the computational representation and apply the appropriate software. The computational representation shall integrate the propositions of former research, mirror the underlying theoretical logic and allow for theoretically valuable experimentation th u s th e  propositions of former research can be replicated, the computational representation is verified and the accuracy and robustness of the computational representation additional to the internal validity of the simple theoryé is confirmed. If the verification fails modification of the underlying construct has to be undertaken until integration is achieve t th at  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


time experimentation in terms of exploration elaboration, and extension \(e.g. varying constructs altering assumptions or adding new features\must be conducted in order to build novel theory. Most probably this process will contribute to clarify the considered relationships and shed light on momentary inconsistent findings in TMT cognitive diversity research. Finally the results of the simulation should be compared with empirical data in order to ensure external validation  The present paper focuses on the first step of a research project being supported by the Peter CurtiusFoundation. In the long we are aiming to derive implications for managing cognitive diverse TMTs using the approach described in this paper. Especially the relationship between cognitive diversity and strategy innovation is of utmost significance to our project Additionally this research project might contribute to establish agent based simulation as option in management and organizational research, especially in case of highly complex and dynamic issues like the diversity debate 6 References  A k ai sh i  J  an d A r i t a   T   M i s p ercep t i o n Co mm u n i cat i on and Diversity, in R.K. Standish, H.A. Abbass, M.A. Bedau Eds.\rtificial Life VIII: 350-357, MIT Press, Sydney 2002 2 A  E. A k g n, G  S. Ly nn a nd C. Y ilm a z  L ea rning  Process in New Product Development Teams and Effect on Product Success: A Socio-Cognitive Perspektiveé, Industrial Marketing Management, 35 \(2\2006, pp. 210-224 3  P M. A lle n W ha t is Co m p le x i t y Sc ie nc e  Know le dg e of the limits to Knowledgeé. Emergence, 3 \(1\, 2001, pp. 24-42 4 S. A uh, a nd B  Me ng uc  T op Ma na g e m e nt T eam  Diversity and Innovativeness: The Moderating Role of Interfunctional Coordinationé, Industrial Marketing Management, 34 \(3\2005a, pp. 249-261 5 S. A uh, a nd B  Me ng uc    T h e in f l ue nc e of top management team functional diversity on strategic orientations: The moderating role of environmental turbulence and inter-functional coordinationé, Journal of Research in Marketing, 22 \(3\, 2005b, pp. 333-350 6 M  Bo isot a n d M Ch ild  O rg a n iz a tions A s A d a p tiv e  Systems in Complex Environments: The Case of China Organization Science \(10\3, 1999, pp. 237-252 7 J. Bu nde rso n, a n d K. Su tc lif f e  C o m pa ring  A lte rna tiv e  Conceptualisations of functional diversity in management teamsé, Academy of Management Journal, 45 \(5\, 2002, pp 875-893 8 R.S. Bur t Struc t u ra l H o le s a nd G ood Ide a s   A m e r ic a n  Journal of Sociology, 110 \(2\2004, pp. 349-399 9 M.A Ca rpe nte r I m p lic a tio ns of Stra te gy a nd Soc ia l  Context for the Relationship Between Top Management Heterogenity a nd Firm Perform anceé, Strategic Management Journal. 23 \(3\, 2002, pp. 275-284 10 B  A  Co lb ert T h e Co m p lex Reso u r ce-Based V i ew  Implications for Theory and Practice in Strategic Human Resource Managementé, Academy of Management Review 29 \(3\, 2004, pp. 341-358 11  M.A Croni n, a nd L  R W e ing a r t R e p re s e nta tiona l  Gaps, Information Processing, and Conflict in Functionally Diverse Teamsé, Academy of Management Review. 32 \(3 2007, pp. 761-773 1 R. Cr o ss, J. L i ed tka and L. Weiss, çA Practical Guide to Social Networksé, Harvard Business Review. 49 \(3\2005 pp. 124-132 13  B. D a hl in L  R. W e ing a r t, a n d P.J H i nds   T e a m  Diversity and Information Useé, Academy of Management Journal 48 \(6\ 2005, pp. 1107-1123 1 J.P  Davi s K M  E i senhard t  an d C B Bi n g h a m   Developing Theory Through Simulationé, Academy of Management Review, 32 \(2\, 2005, pp. 480-499 15 D o ole y  K Si m u la tion Re s e a r c h Me thods i n J  Ba um  Companion to Organizations: 829-848, Blackwell, London 2002 16 L   Fle m ing  P e r f e c ting Cross-Polli na tio n Ha rv a r d  Business Review, September, 2004, pp. 22-24 17 M S. G r a nov e tte r, çT he s t re ng th of  w e a k ties    T h e  American Journal of Sociology, 78 \(6\, 1973, pp. 1360-1380 18 G r a nov e tte r, M S. T h e s t re n g t h of w e ak tie s  A ne t w ork  theory revisited. In: P.V. Marsden , and N. Lin \(Eds.\ Social structure and network analysis: 105-130, CA: Sage, Beverly Hills, 1982 19  C. H a m b ric k   U ppe r Ec hol on T h e o ry A n U pda te   Academy of Management Review, 32 \(2\ 2007, pp. 334-343 20 D  C. H a m b ric k  T  S. Cho, a nd M.J Che n  T he  Influence of Top Management Team Heterogenity on Firm's Competetive Movesé, Administrative Science Quarterly, 41 1996, pp. 659-684 21 D  A  H a rris on, K  H   P r ic e  a nd M P. Be ll B e y ond  relational demography: Time and the effects of surface- and deep-level diversity on work group cohesioné, Academy of Management Jornal, 41, 1998, pp. 96-107 22 L R. Hof fm a n, a nd N R.F. Ma ie r Q ua lity a n d  acceptance of problem solutions by members of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


homogeneous and heterogeneous groupsé, Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 62, 1961, pp. 401-407 23 J  B  H o m e r   W or ke r B u r n o u t. A Dy nam i c Mode l w ith Implications for Prevention and Controlé, System Dynamics Review, 1 \(1\, 1961, pp. 42-62 24 J  J  P. J a ns e n, F  A  J  Va n de n B o s c h, a n d H  W   Volberda, åManaging Potential and Realized Absorptive Capacity: How do Organizational Antecedents Matter Academy of Management Journal, 48 \(6\, 2005, pp. 9991015 2 T  Kau er, T  C. zu  W a ld eck and U. Sch‰ffer, åEffects of top management team characteristics on strategic decision making: Shifting attention to team member personalities and mediating processesé,  Management Decision, 45 \(6\, 2007 pp. 942-967 2 Kau f f m a n  S.A T h e Origin s o f Ord er: Self Organization and Selection in Evolution, Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 2  M  Ki l d u f f  R A n gel m a r  an d A  M e h r a Top Management Team Diversity and Firm Performance Examining the Role of Cognitionsé, Organization Science 11 \(1\, 2000, pp. 21-34 28 J  K l v e r C. St oic a  a nd J  Sc hm idt F orm a l Mode ls   Social Theory and Computer Simulations: Some Methodical Reflectionsé, Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation 6 \(2\, 2003 29 A  M. L a w   a nd K e lton, D  W Si m u la tion m ode ling a n d  analysis \(2 nd ed.\Graw-Hill, New York, 1991 30 R.G L o rd an d K.J. Ma h e r A ltern ativ e In f o rmatio n Processing Models and Their Implications for Theory Research, and Practiceé, Academy of Management Review 15 \(1\1990, pp. 9-28 31 C.C. M ille r, L M. Burk e  a nd W H. G lic k    C og nitiv e  Diversity Among Upper-Echelon Executives - Implications for Strategic Decision Processesé, Strategic Management Journal, 19, 1998, pp. 39-58 32  F.J Millik e n  a n d L  L  Ma rti ns S e a r c h ing f o r c o m m on threads: Understanding the multiple effects of diversity in organizational groupsé, Academy of Management Review 21 \(2\, 1996, pp. 402-433 33 B.J. Olso n  Y. Bao  an d S. Parayitam, çStrategic decision making with Chinese firms: The effects of cognititve diversity and trust on decision outcomesé, Journal of World Business, 42 \(1\, 2006, pp. 35-46 3 L H  P e l l e d K M E i senh ar dt  an d K  R  X i n E xp l o r i n g  the Black Box - An Analysis of Work Group Diversity Conflict, and Performan ceé, Administrative Since Quarterly 2, 1999, 1-28 35 J.E  P e rry S m ith an d C.E  Sh alley  T h e So cial Sid e o f  Creativity: A Static and Dynamic Social Network Perspectiveé, Academy of Management Review, 28 \(1 2003, pp. 89-106 36 P. P i tcher an d A  D Smith, çTop Mana gement Team Heterogeneity: Personality, Power and Proxies Organization Science, 12 \(1\2001, pp. 1-18 37  Sc hie ritz N M illi ng  P  Mo de ling t h e F o re st o r  Modeling the Trees - A Comparison of System Dynamics and Agent-Based Simulation. In: Robert L. Eberlein et al eds.\Proceedings of the 21th International Conference of the System Dynamics Society, New York, 2003 38 T  Sim ons, L  H. P e lle d, a n d K.A S m ith M a k ing Use  of Difference: Diversity, Debate, and Decision Comprehensiveness in Top Management Teamsé, Academy of Management Journal, 42 \(6\1999, pp. 562-673 39 K.G S m ith, J.C. Collins a nd D.C. Cla rk  E x i sting Knowledge, Knowledge Creation Capability, and the Rate of New Product Introduction in High-technology Firms Academy of Management Journal, 48 \(2\, 2005, pp. 346-357 40  Ste rm a n, J Bus i ne s s D y nam ic s  Sy s t em s think ing a nd Modeling for a complex world, McGraw-Hill, Boston, 2000 41 T a jfe l, H H u m a n g r oups and s o c i a l c a t e g orie s  Studie s  in social psychology, Cambridge: University Press Cambridge, 1982 42  M. T ile be in  A c o m p le x a d a p tiv e sy st e m s a pproa c h t o  efficiency and innovationé, Kybernetes 35 \(7/8\, 2006, pp 1087-1099 4 u rn er J  Red isco verin g  the social group: A social categorization theory, Blackwell, Oxford, 1987 4 G  S  V a n d e r V e gt  a n d J S  Bu nd er so n Lear n i n g and Performance in Multidisciplinary Teams: The Importance of Collective Team Identificationé, Academy of Management Journal, 48 \(3\, 2005, pp. 532-547 45 G  S Va n de r  Ve g t a nd O  J a ns s e n T he J o int Ef f e c t of  Psychological Diversity and Interdependence on Individual Performanceé, Academy of Management Proceedings, 2001 4 D van Kn ipp en b e rg C K W  De Dreu  an d A  C  Homan, åWork Group Diversity and Group Performance: An Integrative Model and Research Agendaé, Journal of Applied Psychology, 48 \(6\ 2004, pp. 1008-1022 47 M.A W e s t  S pa rke ling Foun ta ins or s t a g na nt p o n d s   An integrative model of creativity and innovation implementation in work groupsé, Applied Psychology: An International Review, 51 \(3\, 2002, pp. 355-424 48 W ool dridg e  M., A n intr od u c tion to m u ltia g e nt s y ste m s   John Wiley & Sons, Chichester, 2002 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


017 32   00 0 0 00 2 2 2     T j k k R ji iamy iamx iam HHP S  212 212  11 Assignment and Filtering Turning off the effects and corrections due to sensorregistration bias and atmospheric refraction allows the consistency of the measurem ent-to-track assignment and track filtering algorithms to be studied.  The example results use the Jonker-Volgenant algorithm  t o  sol v e t h e global-nearest-neighbor assignment between centroided measurements and tracks.  Th e cost matrix {Ci,j}  is populated according to the rela tionships in \(30 33 j x 210 and j P are state estimate and covariance respectively for track j extra polated to the measurement time h 225\measurement function that transforms the state estimate into the measurement frame and H is a Jacobian matrix that transforms the track-state covariance into the measurement frame    016 212 30  017 006 016 212  S 31    jieji C   log  t t t 33 33\and processing the measurements with a standard extended Kalm   2 8 k D  4  N UMERICAL S IMULATION AND R ESULTS  A simulation model designed around the data-flow diagram shown in Figure 4 supports a variety of consistency investigations.  Some of these investigations were inspired by algorithm errors detected a nd correct with this technique Other investigations are open ended in that they point out places where further algorithm improvements are needed The results presented in the examples only consider random effects that vary from pulse to pulse or dwell to dwell.  If covariance consistency cannot be obtained at this scale, then there is little hope of getting it right over an ensemble of Monte Carlo trials The scenario used in the examples consists of an ESR Xband radar tracking an incoming ballistic target.  The target range relative to the radar varies from ~380 km to ~25 km The target\222s RCS is large enough so that waveform control maintains an SNR close to the goal SNR of 25 dB.  The target\222s mean RCS and percent scintillation changes as the aspect angle varies from ~50\260 to ~0.6\260 over its trajectory The sine-space azimuth is n early constant varying from 0.70 to ~0.56 at apogee to ~0 66.  The sine-space elevation varies over a wider range from ~-0.40 to ~0.11 at apogee to 0.07.  Under these conditions tracking error is fairly small so that the target is track ed near beam center.  One exception to beam-center track ing occurs in the first example where different values for beam-steering offsets are added on purpose Targets Away from Beam Center Consider the difference in Fi gure 7 between measurements that occur on or near beam center where the monopulse response is approximately linear versus measurements that occur closer to the edge where the monopulse response is curved.  The monopulse response transforms uncertainty in y I into uncertainty in DOA Near beam center a Gaussian uncertainty in y I results in a Gaussian uncertainty in DOA Closer to the edge, the monopulse response distorts y I 222s uncertainty so that the DOA\222s un certainty is both biased and no longer Gaussi  Unless some compensation is applied, it is expected that the covariance consistency will be better near the beam\222s center compared to the edge.  Indeed, plots of consistency versus distance from beam center in Fi gure 8 match expectations The order of plots from top to bottom and the legend order are the same.  A value equal to 1 is consistent while a value greater than 1 implies that th e reported covariance is smaller than the uncertainty in the data.  To generate these curves constant beam-point offsets of 0, 1%, 5%, 10%, and 12.5 of the 3dB beamwidth were added to the elevation direction of the nominal beam point.  A sliding window of 50 points was used to calculate the average 2 1 k D values plotted in the curves     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA  Figure 7 - Measurements on the monopulse curve One notable feature of Figure 8 is the sensitivity.  There is fairly significant degradation at a modest 5% offset.  As  212 j iamy iamx iam ji T j iamy iamx iam ji k k R k k R xh Sxh 210 210    1     2   2    5.0exp 2 1 ji ji ji 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


