 The RFID e-Valuation Framework Determining the Business Value from Radio Frequency Identification   John P. Curtin Carlson School of Management University of Minnesota jay-pat@comcast.net   Robert L. Gaffney Opus College of Business University of St. Thomas rlgaffney@stthomas.edu   Frederick J. Riggins W.P. Carey School of Business Arizona State University fred.riggins@asu.edu 
  Abstract In this paper, we develop the RFID e-Valuation Framework to help managers identify the value proposition from using RFID.  The framework is based on three concepts.  First, firms can apply RFID along five dimension of commerce Specifically, by using various modes of interaction firms compete over both time and distance in order to provide some product or service through a chain of relationships eventually ending with the end customer.  Second, new investments in RFID are typically justified by generating efficiency effectiveness and/or strategic 
 benefits.  Third, RFID can be applied to four different structural settings across the value chain including inbound logistics internal operations outbound logistics and marketing and sales By mapping the five dimensions of commerce and the three types of justification, we have develo ped the RFID e-Valuation Grid which can then be applied to the four structural settings to see where RFID can generate business value   1. Introduction  Many types of organizations are asking whether Radio Frequency Identification \(RFID\ology can 
add value to their operations.  This list of organizations includes manufacturers, retailers, third party logistics providers, and various service providers to other companies and end customers.  Some organizations are interested in learning more about the technology and how it might benefit them because of mandates from external trading partners.  Others have heard or read about the technology and wonder if the track and trace capabilities of RFID can make their operations more efficient.  Others simply want to learn more since they don t want to be left behind in case this emerging technology becomes a staple of tomorrow 
s business operations.  While many of these organizations recognize there could be many benefits from better real-time tracking of important mobile items, they also are cautious due to the potential costs of developing the infrastructure required to perform these tracking activities In most of today s organizations information technology \(IT\ a necessity for carrying out normal operations since it provides the infrastructure on which information is circulated throughout and beyond the organization to inform employees, customers, trading 
partners, and other entities about the activities of the organization.  Occasionally, a new technology emerges that is touted as promising major improvements in the cost-performance capabilities of the firm s systems RFID is one such technology that has the potential to dramatically alter the ability of the organization to acquire data about the location and condition of any item that can be physically tagged and wirelessly scanned within certain technical limitations While RFID is considered to have many uses along the supply chain adoption has been relatively 
slow, despite that fact that some important buyers have mandated adoption of the technology.  Riggins and Mukhopadhyay t o u t t h at t h es e t y pes of interorganizational information systems typically carry more risk than internal information systems projects and therefore may lag behind in adoption.  In particular, in this climate, it is important to have insightful frameworks that managers can use to judge the potential business value of such technologies and help them build the business case for related investments.  Curtin, et al. [2 su gge st t h a t r e se a r c h e s  
need to development frameworks and methodologies to estimate the business value from RFID and its impact on market structure in the supply chain.  Some of the questions they recommend addressing include   How can the firm best measure the impacts when RFID is integrated with other applications   How will the business value of RFID technology implementations be mediated by other Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 organizational capabilities that drive value conversion   How will the decision making capabilities of the firm actually be transformed?  How can those be quantified   How will B2B logistics, internal operations, B2C marketing and B2C service be impacted   Will new information processing intermediaries alter the balance of power in the marketplace   Will the need for improved operational control lead to RFID-based risk management intermediaries In this paper, we draw upon prior work to develop a framework that can be used to address several of these questions to analyze the business case for adopting RFID.  The framework is based on concepts that have provided value to managers of e-business enterprises for over a decade.  We believe that by applying these concepts to RFID technology, managers will be in a better position to develop a comprehensive RFID strategy for their organization  2. Background to the Technology  In 2005, MIT listed RFID as the tenth most innovative technology of the past 25 years ahead of ATM bank machines, automobile air bags, hybrid cars HDTV, the space shuttle, voice mail and nanotechnology.  Among other reasons, RFID is innovative because it can be used to track tagged items wirelessly, can quickly read and record data from multiple tags as items move through the read zone, and can be linked with sensor technology that collects data about environmental conditions such as temperature shock, or light.  RFID has the potential to bring computer-based intelligence to any mobile item that can be tagged.  For example, by tagging individual items held in a retailer s stock room, the system can act as if there were a unique manager assigned to watch over each item in inventory.  If the sales associate begins to take an item to the showroom, a tag can be used to notify the associate that a different item should be taken due to its soon-to-expire expiration date.  For other types of perishable items, sensor-based tags can monitor the ambient temperature of the truck or warehouse and cause the environmental systems to automatically adjust the temperature settings if conditions dictate.  Tags on checked baggage can communicate with the airport baggage handling system to notify airport employees of the location of each bag This type of micro-management of individually tagged items can deliver efficiency benefits, make the organization more effective in its decision-making, and bring strategic benefits over rivals when integrated with other internal and external systems While RFID has been in existence for several decades, the technology has gained considerable attention recently as large retail buyers have promoted the technology as a way to track inventory through the supply chain from supplier through the warehouse and on to the store.  Today, RFID technology is made up of three main components  T h e R F ID tag its el f consists of two items:  a tiny silicon chip perhaps only a few millimeters in size or smaller, contains a limited amount of data and can receive and emit a radio signal through an attached antenna which may be shaped in a maze-like pattern to increase the length of the antenna while keeping the size of the tag to one square inch in size or smaller.  The emitted signal is read by a reader  which can be placed in a variety of locations such as the warehouse receiving door or at the box crusher area.  The reader is linked to other systems which process, store, or transfer the data to various applications RFID tags come in a variety of shapes and sizes which impact their cost, read-range distance, amount of data that can be stored, and their ability to monitor more than simply location  T h es e all im pact t h e  usefulness of RFID for a given application.  The cheapest tags are passive tags which have no internal power source, but rather draw power from the signal sent by the reader.  The reader scans the surrounding area by continuously sending out a signal within a certain frequency range.  When a passive tag comes within the read range of the signal, the passive tag is awakened and responds to the reader by transmitting an identifier code Active tags are larger, perhaps the size of a credit card or a cell phone, and include a battery source to power the tag, which can increase the read distance or power additional features of the tag such as an internal temperature or vibration monitor The larger tag size also allows for more data storage capacity.  While more expensive and bulkier, active tags have more potential uses than passive tags.  The type of tag that is right for a specific application depends on the functionality needs of the problem, size limitations, read distance requirements, and financial constraints In addition to the size and battery source, another important characteristic of RFID tags is the frequency at which they transmit their signal.  Standards play an important role as tags and readers must be tuned to transmit and receive at the same signal frequencies The frequency used not only determines the feasible distance of reading the signal, it is also a fact of physics that certain frequencies are better at penetrating certain items such as metal, water, or skin Low frequency \(LF\ \(125 134 kHz\s used for Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 tagging pets because it is good at passing through water and skin, but requires a very close read range such as passing a handheld device over the pet.  High internationally accepted 13.56 MHz ranges have a higher read distance and have a faster data transfer.  They are commonly used in retail theft prevention applications for high value goods, smart cards, and for tagging books in libraries.  The tags used in supply chain applications are typically in the ultra high frequency \(UHF\e \(860 930 MHz\d are useful because of a longer read distance and the low cost of producing many tags.  Finally, some applications that require longer read distances and large data files may use microwave frequencies \(2.45 GHz  3. The RFID e-Valuation Grid  Riggin trodu ced th e E l ectron ic C o mm erce Value Grid as a way of identifying opportunities to add value to online users of an organization s web presence.  The grid concept was further developed into the e-Valuation Framework that can be applied to broader e-business applications in Riggins and Mitra 7   T h e o r i g i n a l fr a m e w o r k c o m b i n e s  fi ve d i m e ns i o ns  of commerce with three methods of justifying IT investments to map a 5 x 3 grid space that shows where value can be derived from a portfolio of IT investments.  In this paper, we adapt these concepts to the RFID context to develop a framework for evaluating the value of RFID applications along various places within the value chain.  Specifically, our framework is based on three components    Five Dimensions of Commerce Firms compete along five dimensions of commerce.  Specifically by using various modes of interaction firms compete over time and distance to provide some product or service through a chain of relationships     Three Ways to Justify IT Investments New investments in information technology are typically justified using three criteria: generating efficiency  effectiveness and/or strategic benefits and    Four Structural Settings along the Value Chain RFID can be applied to four different structural settings across the value chain inbound logistics  internal operations  outbound logistics  and marketing and sales    3.1. Five Dimensions of Commerce  3.1.1. Time In today's competitive business climate companies now compete within an accelerated time frame.  The time it takes to develop and deliver products is now being measured in days or weeks rather than months or years.  Because of this companies are seeking ways to use information technology to dramatically reduce or even eliminate the time it takes to deliver information, products, and services on demand.  By attaching RFID tags to various items, RFID automates many of the processes that formerly required time consuming human intervention, scanning, and inspection.  By automatically identifying the location and condition of items, RFID systems allow many processes to be accelerated, allows the system to be constantly updated in real-time as conditions change, and allows users and other systems to know the precise location and condition of the item on demand   3.1.2. Distance By placing RFID tags on moveable items, the RFID system can monitor and control items and processes from remote locations and thereby overcome barriers created by geographical distance While RFID tags may be read from relatively short distances, users and other systems can monitor and control the location and conditio n of items remotely by linking the readers to global networks.  This essentially allows each tagged item to function as if it had a unique personal manager attached to it at all times Imagine the possibilities for a retailer if each individual item were assigned a manager to be present with it at all times whether during delivery, in the stock room, or on the sales floor.  Or consider the implications of having a unique manager be assigned to accompany any expensive piece of equipment in a hospital as it moves from one procedure to another.  This ability to monitor and control items from a distance allows the organization to extend its reach to more distant locations than was previously feasible  3.1.3. Relationships RFID systems present opportunities to alter the structure of relationships in internal, business-to-consumer \(B2C\d business-tobusiness \(B2B\ relationships.  By using this technology, organizations that are able to capture RFID generated data, analyze the data using sophisticated data analytic tools, and thereby better understand processes and conditions across the value chain can find their position within the chain enhanced Combining this technology with personalization technology and customer relationship management CRM\ can allow for more personalized and closer relationships with internal and external users Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 Finally, to the extent that users alter their behavior due to the availability of RFID-generated data and the resulting information, users will become dependent upon the system and thus more tightly bound to the owner of the RFID system and resulting data  3.1.4. Interaction RFID is a sensing technology that essentially adds eyes and ears to the intelligence of an existing system.  As such, RFID allows the system to employ much more powerful interaction capabilities with other entities with which it interacts.  These entities could include users of the system, as well as other interfaced systems, both within and outside the organization.  By using these interacting capabilities RFID allows more accurate and timely feedback into the system about the location and condition of tagged items.  In addition, these eyes and ears allow the system to automatically respond more intelligently to its surroundings to control processes, alter environmental conditions, move items, or respond to system users.  Further, when RFID is integrated across the value chain it helps create an intelligent network which allows the organizations within that network to integrate their activities more closely  3.1.5. Product By being able to monitor and control the location and condition of tagged items from a distance, RFID systems allow for the creation of entirely new products and services.  When intelligent systems have RFID-enabled sensing capabilities, as well as the authority to act on its own based on predefined logic and parameters, new automated services can be offered to internal and external users of the system.  In addition, new information-based products can be offered to help decision-makers understand and respond to changes in conditions When used creatively, these proprietary products and services can be leveraged in the marketplace for competitive advantage  3.2. Three Ways to Justify IT Investments  3.2.1. Efficiency Benefits There are many processes that can be done more quickly using RFID, thereby creating efficiency benefits.  When various items, such as equipment, people, or materials are being routed through a process their presence and/or condition can be automatically detected and logged into the system Otherwise, they would need to be manually scanned inspected, and logged one-by-one.  This is a considerable labor and time savings Further, by knowing the location and/or condition of these items, the system can pre-determine optimal routing such that they can be directed to the appropriate place.  Also, by using RFID systems to monitor the location and conditions of these items, the system or authorized personnel can reroute them to adjust to changing needs at various locations Further, by monitoring the condition and environmental status of items, the system can remotely request changes in the environmental conditions around them.  This type of location and condition monitoring allows the organization to bypass employees and other intermediaries by automating the process.  On the other hand, by owning the data associated with the location and/or condition of various items within the supply chain, the organization may emerge as a new intermediary that is able to collect RFID-generated data, analyze it, and offer it to interested parties.  In some cases, owners of RFIDgenerated data may be able to understand a multi-party value chain process better than any one member of the value chain The real-time data gathering capabilities of RFID generates efficiency benefits by creating new forms of interaction that were previously not possible.  When integrated into existing systems, a new form of automated two-way dialog can be created that can result in considerable efficiency benefits as interacting systems trigger process actions, generate real-time data updates, and monitor potential problem scenarios more efficiently than humans.  In addition, this real-time data can be used to update marketing campaigns on the fly or change inventory plans on a moment s notice One of the most powerful ways to use IT is to use software agents to automate a series of time consuming or otherwise infeasible tasks.  Software agents are intelligent applications that are able to learn from their environment and improve their performance based on data collected over time.  RFID-enhanced agents that are able to remotely moni tor the location and condition of mobile items, have unique eyes and ears into the tagged item s surroundings that improve their ability to learn and adjust.  In this way, RFID can provide considerable efficiency benefits when integrated into intelligent agents  3.2.2. Effectiveness Benefits   RFID can generate effectiveness benefits by making data and information available to decision makers in a more timely fashion With RFID, the system is able to reflect exact current inventory levels and status conditions since systems are constantly updated to reflect the movement of items into, within, and out of the facility  By knowing the exact location and condition of items, the system can better forecast future inventory levels and conditions.  By receiving real-time remote telemetry about the location and condition of various items, RFID systems can aid the effectiveness of decision makers over long distances.  These systems Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


allow managers to essentially be in multiple places at a given time by giving them eyes and ears into distant processes and locations.  Further, by monitoring the location and condition of items, the system can automatically forecast future problem scenarios and be authorized to make decisions to take into account the anticipated future location and condition of items RFID allows organizations to be more effective at creating a personalized service to users of the system other internal employees, or external constituents When the system knows the exact location and condition of various items being tracked and monitored, it is possible to provide a more personalized interface to users, present current information to decision makers, alter the work environment of employees based on who is present at the time, and provide a unique experience to external entities In addition to personalizing to users, RFID systems that can monitor the location and condition of mobile items, as well as the conditions of the environment surrounding them, are able to respond with intelligence to the environment itself to alter it respond to queries, notify managers of problem areas or make routine decisions automatically.  This capability is based on pre-defined decision criteria as specified by management Finally, another form of personalization occurs when decision makers use decision support systems that respond to inputs to create a unique decision output based on the decision maker's current situation RFID can be used to make decision support tools reflect the current location a nd condition of any mobile tagged entity.  These RFID-enhanced decision support tools can help users be more effective in decision making.  In addition, RFID data can enable the creation of new decision support tools that were not feasible prior to RFID.  In some cases, these new decision support tools can be made available to outside users perhaps as a revenue-generating business opportunity  3.2.3. Strategic Benefits Firms often use information technology to integrate their systems across their value chain making their business ecosystem more competitive vis-à-vis other competing ecosystems When RFID data is integrated into other systems within and outside the organization, the system can provide strategic benefits by creating a seamless flow and thus real-time availability of items across a virtual enterprise.  This allows authorized users to know the location and condition of items at all times and to ensure their availability 24/7.  When this capability is integrated across the enterprise and outside the enterprise to include other consortium partners competitive advantage can be achieved relative to other organizations or consortia that don t have such seamless integration One way this is done is to use RFID to know the current exact location and conditions of equipment people, and other items, which allows the system to reroute these items to balance the availability of the right number of items within a globally distributed value chain.  By doing so, an organization can achieve strategic benefits by extending its physical reach and locate new facilities to further locations that otherwise may not have been feasible When RFID-generated information is valuable to users of the system, other employees, or external parties, these people typically will alter their patterns of behavior to make use of that information.  When this happens, the system becomes indispensable in their job and they become locked-in to using the system.  This may be a significant source of competitive advantage particularly when the entity being locked-in is an external customer.  The potential to generate benefits from RFID are enhanced when coupled with process redesign by both providers and users of the system When this type of technology is coupled with process redesign, both parties are able to gain advantage and the implementer of RFID can achieve advantage over rivals who don't engage in such redesign Virtual integration occurs when multiple parties along the value chain integrate their systems to the extent that they are able to act as if they are one entity This type of consortium is able to achieve many of the benefits of physical integration without the difficulties of getting too large or engaging in an actual merger RFID monitoring capabilities enhance the ability of organizations to integrate virtually by providing realtime data transfer across organizational boundaries of information associated with mobile items at any facility.  By increasing the monitoring capabilities across organizational boundaries considerable process benefits can be achieved by the consortium resulting in strategic advantage relative to competing consortia RFID systems allow organizations to gather large volumes of data that may be unique to the value chain or marketplace.  When combined with sophisticated data analytic capabilities, these systems can generate unique information that may be used to create new products or services that were not previously possible By offering this proprietary systemic competency into the marketplace, an organization may generate new revenues or enhance their competitive position within the industry By mapping the five dimensions of commerce with the three ways to justify RFID investments we can create the 5 x 3 RFID e-Valuation Grid as shown in Figure 1.  This represents fifteen ways that RFID Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 can add value within a given context.  We now turn to the different structural settings along the value chain  Accelerate Process Tasks Eliminate Information Float Establish 24/7 Integrated Service Control Processes Remotely Receive Realtime Remote Telemetry Achieve Global Presence Alter Ro le o f Intermediaries Enable Personalized Service Create Dependency to Lock-in User Make Use of Extensive System Feedback Respond Intelligently to Environment Promote Virtual Integration Automate Tasks Using Software Agents Provide Decision Support Tools Offer Proprietary Systemic Competency  Time Distance Relationships Interaction Product Efficiency Effectiveness Strategic Figure 1.  The RFID e-Valuation Grid Accelerate Process Tasks Eliminate Information Float Establish 24/7 Integrated Service Control Processes Remotely Receive Realtime Remote Telemetry Achieve Global Presence Alter Ro le o f Intermediaries Enable Personalized Service Create Dependency to Lock-in User Make Use of Extensive System Feedback Respond Intelligently to Environment Promote Virtual Integration Automate Tasks Using Software Agents Provide Decision Support Tools Offer Proprietary Systemic Competency Time Distance Relationships Interaction Product Efficiency Effectiveness Strategic Figure 1.  The RFID e-Valuation Grid    3.3. Four Structural Settings in the Value Chain  3.3.1. Inbound Logistics RFID can monitor the location and condition of items that are being shipped to the organization s facilities.  Having visibility into the current location and status of the shipment allows for accurate inventory management through inventory anticipation.  In addition, using monitoring technology along with basic RFID technology allows the recipient to monitor the condition of items while in transit Monitoring vibration can help predict breakage and other quality control problems.  Tracking temperature humidity, light, or air pressure during shipment can be important for certain perishable items such as food or pharmaceuticals.  Just as delivery time status can impact the organization s inventory control systems being able to predict the condition of items when they arrive can be useful for determining appropriate routing and re-order decisions.  Finally, RFID coupled with sophisticated monitoring technologies can allow the recipient of the shipment to remotely control processes during shipment.  For, example, when monitoring temperature in the truck, the recipient can request changes in the truck temperature or request the shipment be diverted to a closer facility rather than risk spoilage over a long truck haul over the desert  3.3.2. Internal Operations Just as monitoring the location and condition of items during inbound transit directly impacts the organization s inventory management system, monitoring the location and condition of items within the firm s internal operations facilities impact these systems.  Another area of impact is through asset management of expensive pieces of equipment which may easily be misplaced, lost, or hoarded by employees.  Hospitals, manufacturing facilities, and computer support teams can all benefit by knowing the exact location of expensive mobile equipment that needs to be at a specific location at a specific time for a specific task.  This is particularly beneficial when the equipment is used by high-paid employees who otherwise may need to wait or search for the item.  Finally, tracking the location of employees themselves may be beneficial to the organization for planning workflow, work assignments, and other types of employee monitoring needs.  This type of monitoring must be balanced with a respect for personal privacy.  RFID is just one type of monitoring technology that will make this a more delicate issue in human resource management in the coming decade  3.3.3. Outbound Logistics Just as monitoring the location and condition of items during inbound transit adds value to the firm, monitoring finished goods during outbound logistics provides an important service to customers.  Bein g able to reroute outbound shipments as conditions change or respond to customer queries about the location and condition of items may allow the firm to gain a competitive advantage over rivals.  Also, linking this tracking system with internal systems may allow the firm to carry less inventory and still be able to support a customer s just-in-time manufacturing environment  3.3.4. Marketing and Sales In a sales floor environment, RFID systems integrated with internal operational systems can be used to reduce out-of-stock situations thereby providing the customer a better shopping experience.  Similarly, there are many situations where a customer service associate needs to locate a specific item related to the customer s visit such as a physical medical record, a book in the library, or an item stored in the backroom.  By equipping the associate with handheld RFID scanners they can quickly locate the item leading to better customer service.  Smart shelves can detect when an item is not on display or has been inadvertently moved to a different location by a customer.  Smart shelves can also detect when a prospective customer browses through a brochure or some other physical promotional item which could cause a customized promotional video to be displayed.  Finally, just as tagging employees can add benefits, encouraging customers to carry RFID-enabled promotion cards can make for a highly personalized store visit.  Again, personal privacy must be ensured in such situations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 3.4. The RFID e-Valuation Framework  By mapping this 4 x 5 x 3 value space, we can construct the RFID e-Valuation Framework as shown in Figure 2.  By thinking about the value proposition at this level of detail, a manager can ask the following questions when developing the business case for RFID  Accelerate Process Tasks Eliminate Information Float Establish 24/7 Integrated Se rvice Control Processes Remotely Receive Realtime Remote Telemetry Achieve Globa l Presence Alter Role of Intermediaries Ena ble  Persona lized  Service Create Depende ncy to Lock-in User Ma ke Use of Exten sive Syst em Feedback Respond Intelligently to Enviro nmen t Promote Virtual Integration Auto mate Tasks Using Software Agents Provide D ecision Support Tools Offe r P r oprie tary Systemic Competency  Time D istance Relationships Interaction Product Efficiency Effectiveness Strategic  Inbound Logistics Internal Operations Outbound Logistics Marketing and Sales Figure 2.  The RFID e-Valuation Framework  Accelerate Process Tasks Eliminate Information Float Establish 24/7 Integrated Se rvice Control Processes Remotely Receive Realtime Remote Telemetry Achieve Globa l Presence Alter Role of Intermediaries Ena ble  Persona lized  Service Create Depende ncy to Lock-in User Ma ke Use of Exten sive Syst em Feedback Respond Intelligently to Enviro nmen t Prom ote Virtual Integration Auto mate Tasks Using Software Agents Provide D ecision Support Tools Offe r P r oprie tary Systemic Competency  Time D istance Relationships Interaction Product Efficiency Effectiveness Strategic  Inbound Logistics Internal Operations Outbound Logistics Marketing and Sales Figure 2.  The RFID e-Valuation Framework      How can RFID be used to track the location and monitor the condition of items during inbound logistics to achieve efficiency benefits within each dimension of commerce?  To achieve effectiveness benefits?  Strategic benefits    How can RFID be used to track the location and monitor the condition of items within internal operations to achieve efficiency benefits within each dimension of commerce?  To achieve effectiveness benefits?  Strategic benefits    How can RFID be used to track the location and monitor the condition of items during outbound logistics to achieve efficiency benefits within each dimension of commerce?  To achieve effectiveness benefits?  Strategic benefits    How can RFID be used to track the location and monitor the condition of items for marketing and sales to achieve efficiency benefits within each dimension of commerce?  To achieve effectiveness benefits?  Strategic benefits  3.5. Mapping Functionality Interactions  Once opportunities have been identified within this 4 x 5 x 3 value space, the framework can be used to map out how certain functionalities enable or enhance other functionalities \(s o r m o re  specifics on applying this methodology\f functionality A is necessary for functionality B to exist, then we say that A enables B If functionality A helps improve the benefits from functionality B, then we say that A enhances B  For example, suppose the firm s contracted trucking company allows the firm to monitor and receive updates of the environmental conditions in the truck while in transit to the firm s facility.  In this case by receiving real-time remote telemetry the firm could use this information to    provide decision support tools with updated status of the shipment \(enhancing functionality    accelerate process tasks as the inbound facility by taking needed advanced action before the shipment arrives, rather than simply responding to the shipment when it docks \(enabling functionality    control processes remotely by signaling instructions to the driver to alter the environmental conditions in the truck if needed \(enabling functionality\,  and    alter the role of the intermediary the trucker\ by using this detailed information to increase operational and strategic leverage over the contracted trucking firm by exerting additional control or penalties based on the information enhancing functionality  These four benefits are mapped into the RFID eValuation Grid in Figure 3.  In a similar way, other functionality interactions can be mapped within and across the four structural settings along the value chain  Accelerate Process Tasks Eliminate Information Float Establish 24/7 Integrated Service Control Processes Remotely Receive Realtime Remote Telemetry Achieve Global Presence Alter Role of Intermediaries Enable Personalized Service Create Dependency to Lock-in User Make Use of Extensive System Feedback Respond Intelligently to Environment Promote Virtual Integration Automate Tasks Using Software Agents Provide Decision Support Tools Offer Proprietary Systemic Competency  Time Distance Relationships Interaction Product Efficiency Effectiveness Strategic Figure 3.  Mapping Functionality Interactions Accelerate Process Tasks Eliminate Information Float Establish 24/7 Integrated Service Control Processes Remotely Receive Realtime Remote Telemetry Achieve Global Presence Alter Role of Intermediaries Enable Personalized Service Create Dependency to Lock-in User Make Use of Extensive System Feedback Respond Intelligently to Environment Promote Virtual Integration Automate Tasks Using Software Agents Provide Decision Support Tools Offer Proprietary Systemic Competency Time Distance Relationships Interaction Product Efficiency Effectiveness Strategic Figure 3.  Mapping Functionality Interactions   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 By indicating which functionalities enhance or enable others, this methodology helps the organization plan and organize a portfolio of functionalities that may be developed over time  4. Two Case Examples from the Food Industry  To illustrate the application of the RFID eValuation Framework we will discuss two examples from the food industry  4.1. Case Example 1:  RFID at Wells Dairy  Iowa-based Wells Dairy produces various dairy products including Blue Bunny ice cream.  In order to meet Wal-Mart s RFID mandate, Wells Dairy began looking into how they could use RFID in their production line h e y instit u t ed a n e w  RFID  labeling system on their one-gallon bucket Blue Bunny ice cream production line by automatically adhering RFID tags to cases which are defined as two onegallon containers packaged together.  The tag is attached to the case prior to having the case sent to the freezer for the freezing process.  After freezing, cases are then wrapped into 75-case pallets which are also automatically labeled with an RFID tag.  Pallets are then loaded onto trucks and then sent to Wal-Mart distribution centers There are numerous ways RFID adds value to the internal operation and outbound logistics according to the RFID e-Valuation Framework  1  Wells Dairy promotes virtual integration across the supply chain when it responds to the Wal-Mart mandate to its top 100 suppliers  2  By using RFID tags on cases and pallets which can then be automatically read without line of site bar code readers, RFID accelerates process tasks  since the tags are adhered automatically, tags are read automatically without human intervention to ensure line-of-site, and there is no rekeying of barcode information.  Further, by accelerating process tasks using this automation, RFID alters the role of intermediaries by taking the need for human intervention out of the process equation.  In that sense, accelerating user tasks enables the altering of the role of intermediaries  3  Another benefit in internal operations is that the RFID-populated database tracks inventory in realtime allowing Wells Dairy to quickly find a product within the production line if a problem occurs.  Here accelerating process tasks combined with eliminating information float allows Wells  Dairy to respond intelligently to the environment  when there is a problem on the line  4  By having intelligence built into the RFID system it is able to quickly determine when a low quality product should be withheld from a shipment thereby increasing overall shipment quality Therefore, by automating tasks using software agents the system is able to accelerate process tasks which in turn allows Wells Dairy to offer proprietary systemic competencies when product quality is improved  5  Similar to the second point above, worker productivity in increased since personnel do not need to ensure the correct physical placement of pallet bar codes.  Therefore, the RFID system accelerates process tasks which reduces the need for intervening labor thereby altering the role of intermediaries   6  Outbound logistics are improved by using RFID readers to ensure that the correct pallets are in the proper outbound queue which results in zero shipping errors.  This in turn improves the overall quality of customer service.  Because the system does this automatically there is no need to have a person double-checking bar-codes on the outbound truck as was the case prior to RFID Therefore, by accelerating process tasks and eliminating information float RFID Wells Dairy is using the technology to alter the role of the intermediary less manual intervention\ and offer proprietary systemic competencies to its customer improved customer service  4.2. Case Example 2:  RFID at Sachsenmilch  Sachsenmilch is a large German dairy producer of a variety of high-quality cheese products T h e cheese product process is quite sensitive to changes in temperature and humidity, and requires precise timing of the sweating and ripening process in order to produce fine-tasting cheeses.  Sachsenmilch decided to institute RFID in its internal cheese production process to track the movement of cheeses into and out of its environmentally-controlled sweating and ripening rooms.  This effort was done in part to ensure compliance with new regulations from the European Union \(EU In the new RFID-enabled operation, trays loaded with fresh cheese blocks are routed via a conveyor to various ripening and sweating rooms.  The trays have Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 RFID labels affixed to them and readers along the conveyor and at the entrance to the ripening and sweating rooms allows the RFID system to keep track of where each cheese-loaded tray is, how long it has been in a given room, and what are the current environmental conditions along the conveyor line and in the ripening and sweating rooms RFID adds value to Sachsenmilch according to the RFID e-Valuation Framework in several ways  1  Because the RFID system collects data on location and time as the cheese products moves through the ripening process, Sachsenmilch accelerates process tasks of collecting such data in order to fulfill EU requirements.  Also, similar to the case of Wells Dairy, since the data is being collected automatically without human intervention the system alters the role of intermediaries by taking the need for human intervention out of the process  2  If audited, Sachsenmilch is able to access its RFID-enabled database which is used to show the origin and process used for each piece of cheese thereby eliminating information float   3  Sachsenmilch believes that improved process precision results in improved quality of the cheese product allowing them to eliminate information float in order to offer proprietary systemic competencies   4  Engineers studying the sweating and ripening process are able to make use of extensive system feedback in order to make process changes to improve the quality of the product thereby allowing Sachsenmilch to offer a proprietary systemic competency of better tasting cheese products  These two brief examples illustrate how the RFID e-Valuation Framework can be used to map the business value generated from RFID at various places along the value chain.  It further allows the analyst to map out when certain RFID functionality enables or enhances other functionalities  5. Benefits of the Framework  In this paper, we have provided an overview of the RFID Value Grid, which when applied at various points along the value chain creates an overall RFID eValuation Framework that can be used to map the business value generated from RFID.  There are several benefits of such a framework First, the framework helps stimulate a structured discussion on the business value of RFID.  For managers this allows stakeholders to address the value discussion from the same starting vantage point.  For researchers, the framework can stimulate a discussion of the key research points that should be addressed with further research methodologies Second, the framework helps to identify where RFID has the potential to impact the organization Some areas are more obvious than others.  By examining the grid and considering different points along the value chain, additional value-added functionalities emerge further enhancing the total business value of RFID and enabling the creation of an overall RFID business strategy Third, the framework helps to identify functionality interactions where one functionality enhances or enables other functionalities.  This helps the RFID manager not only map where value is created, but can also help the manager determine the appropriate timing of investments and rollout of different functionalities over time Fourth, each cell in the grid where RFID has an impact, as well as each interaction between functionalities within the cells, indicates where the RFID manager should consider implementing certain metrics to measure performance of the RFID system Such metrics are important for evaluating the effectiveness of the system and further refining the RFID business case Finally, the grid and the framework can be used as a tool to communicate the business case for RFID to other stakeholders.  Effective communication using such a tool generates more refined discussion and furthers understanding of the value of the technology  6. References  1 Co o n ey E. M  RFID+: The Complete Review of Radio Frequency Identification 2006, Thomson Delmar Learning Clifton Park, NY  2 Cur tin J   K a uf fm a n R.J a n d Rig g i ns F  J  Making the MOST Out of RFID Technology: A Research Agenda for the Study of the Adoption, Usage and Impact of RFID  Information Technology and Management Vol. 8, No. 2 2007   F i n k en zel l e r K  RFID Handbook: Fundamentals and Applications in Contactless Smart Cards and Identification  Second Edition, 2003, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Hoboken NJ  4 G r eeng a rd, S Wells Dairy Milks RFID for Benefits  RFID Journal January 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 5 Inf o rm a tion T e c hnol og y  A s s o c i a tion of A m e r ic a I TA A    Radio Frequency Identification: RFID Coming of Age  white paper Information Technology Association of America Arlington, VA, June 2004, available at www.itaa.org/rfid/docs/rfid.pdf  6 R i g g i ns F.J  A Framework for Identifying Web-Based Electronic Commerce Opportunities  Journal of Organizational Computing and Electronic Commerce vol. 9 no. 4, 1999, pp. 297-310  7 R i g g i ns F.J  a nd Mitra  S An E-Valuation Framework for Developing Net-Enabled Business Metrics Through Functionality Interaction  Journal of Organizational Computing and Electronic Commerce vol. 17, no. 2, 2007 pp. 175-203  8 Ri ggi n s  F  J an d M u khop ad h y a y   T   Overcoming Adoption and Implementation Risks of EDI  International Journal of Electronic Commerce vol. 3, no. 4, Summer 1999, pp. 103-123     W e ssel  R   RFID Ripens Cheese  RFID Journal  January 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


participants, times, places, content, and form. Across documents the content may be deceivingly alike. Yet one must keep in mind that each document manages an intricate reciprocal relationship between how much the document explicate and the background knowledge people bring to its use Finally, system designers may distinguish circular integration of documents and documents feeding to and from the cycles. People use their central cycles to manage many other document systems. The cycle allows people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices  7. References 1 S. L  Sta r a nd K  R u h d e l e r  S te ps tow a r d a n e c ology  infrastructure: Design and access for large information spaces ISR vol. 7, pp. 111 - 134, 1996 2 L  T  K ohn, J  M. C o rrig a n a nd M. S. D o na lds o n T o Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, 1999 3  P. R Ca rlile  A P r a g m a tic V i e w of Know le dg e a n d  Boundaries: Boundary Objects in New Product Development Org. Science vol. 13, pp. 442-455, 2002 4 N  L e v i na a nd E Va a s t T h e em e r g e nc e of bounda r y  spanning competence in practice: Implications for implementation and use of information systems MIS Quarterly vol. 29, pp. 335-363, 2005 5 S L  Sta r a n d J R. G r ie se m e r I nstituti ona l Ec ol og y   Translations' and Boundary Objects Social Studies of Science vol. 19, pp. 387-420, 1989  C Bazerm an  S y s t e m o f g e n r es an d t h e en act m e n t o f  social intentions," in Genre and the New Rhetoric A Freedman and P. Medway, Eds. London: Taylor & Francis 1995, pp. 79-104 7 J. Yates & W  Orlik o w sk i Gen re Sy st e m s: Stru ctu rin g  Interaction through Communicative Norms Journal of Business Communication vol. 39, pp. 13-35, 2002 8 C  U  C i bor r a a n d R  A ndr e u  S ha r i ng K now le dg e  across Boundaries Journal of Information Technology  vol. 16, pp. 73-81, 2001  R Han s en and J Ren n ecker Co llective Her m en eu tics in a Systems Development Process Sprouts: Working Papers on Information Systems vol. 6 pp http://sprouts.aisnet.org/6-6 2006 10 R. J  Bola nd, R V. T e nk a s i, a nd D  T e e ni D e s ig ning Information Technology to Support Distributed Cognition Organization Science vol. 5, pp. 456-475, 1994 11 G  De Sa nc tis  M  P o ole   C a p turi ng the C o m p le x i t y  in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory Org. Science vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 1 B  Lat o u r and S  Wo ol gar   Laboratory Life: The construction of scientific Facts Princeton: Princenton University Press, 1986 13 J  G  Ma r c h H o w de c i s i ons ha ppe n in org a niz a tio ns   Human-Computer Interaction vol. 6, pp. 95-117, 1991 14 R. Harp er Inside the IMF: An ethnography of documents, technology, and organizational action San Diego: Academic Press, 1998 15 M  S  F e l d m a n   Order without design: Information production and policy making Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1989 1 K Wei c k  Sense making in organizations Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1995 17 J  S. B r ow n a nd P. D u g u id  B orde rli n e Is s u e s   Human-Computer Interaction vol. 9, pp. 3-36, 1994 18 D E. Sm ith Institutional Ethnography: A sociology for people Oxford: AltaMira Press, 2005 1 C sterlu nd  Do cu m e n t s in P l ace: De m a rc atin g Places for Collaboration in Healthcare Settings CSCW  vol. 17, pp. 195-225, 2008 20 C   s t e r lu nd  G e n re Com b ina t i ons  A W i ndow into  Dynamic Communication Practices Journal of Management of Information Systems \(JMIS vol. 23, pp 81-108, 2007 2 N M  Dixo n   Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22 K  Kn o rr Ceti n a  The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23 R. J  J  B o la n d  A n Ec ology o f D i s t ribute d  P r a c tic e  Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24 M  A g ar Speaking of Ethnography Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25 J  Va n Ma a n e n  T he Fa c t of Fic tio n i n O r g a niz a tiona l  Ethnography ASQ vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26 M  B  M i l e s a n d A  M  H u b e r m a n   Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27  S. R  B a rle y T e c hnolo g y a s a n O c ca s i on f o r Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments ASQ vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28 M. L  Ma rk us T o w a r d a  T h e o ry of K now le dg e Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29 W  J. Orlik o w sk i  K now ing in pra c tic e  Ena c ting  a  collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science vol. 13, pp. 249 273, 2002 30 C  ste r lu nd a n d P. Ca rlil e   R e l a tions i n  P r a c tic e   Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations The Information Society vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31 L  A  S u c h m a n   Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 3  M  S  A c ker m an an d C H a l v erso n  Organ i zat i o n a l  Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, & Trajectories CSCW vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33 R  J  B o la n d  I nf orm a t i on Sy s t em U s e a s a  hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 
 


  12 order, where the Ares V and th e Altair have been placed in LEO prior to the crew launc h, as the launch opportunities expires, pressure could be placed on launch controllers to relax the Ares I launch rules in order to avoid the loss of the Ares V stack in orbit  Table 12. Comparison of Other Considerations Case Cost to Provide Added Loiter Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 0  V-I 4-Day Loiter 0 226  MMOD Protection 226  PV Arrays 226  Additional propellant for re-boost and attitude control  Table 13. Summary Comparison of Final Cases Case PnSL Expected Vehicle Replacement Cost per Crewed Mission Ares I Stack Equiv  Cost to Provide Added Loiter Added PLOC Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 5.4% 0.05 AI 0 1  6,092   V-I 4-Day Loiter 4.7 0.14 AI 0 Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1B In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1.9% 0.06 AI 1B Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter  


  13 Second, differences exist in the programmatic consequences between the loss of an Ares I stack and an Ares V stack beyond the replacement cost. Ares I and Orion flight rates could be relatively high to support ISS and lunar missions Replacing one of these stacks would be a matter of accelerating the next launch vehi cle in the pipeline. For the Ares V and Altair, however the replacement could involve more significant delays. The Ares V itself would be a more expensive and more complex vehicle to replace. The Altair lander presents the greatest complexities. A limited number of landers will be produced for the lunar campaign Acquiring an additional repl acement lander could involve the reopening of production lines. In addition, each Altair will be unique to some degree because of the mission objectives and the cargo that it carries. Finally, the cargo itself would need to be repl aced in the event of a loss Summary Comparison Table 13 summarizes the comparison of the three launch options. In this table, the cells that indicate potential negative aspects for each case are highlighted I-V 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The I-V launch order case resulted in the highest PnSL of the three final cases, with a probability of a missed second launch of 5.4 per mission. However, because of the low cost of failure for this case, it also had the lowest expected vehicle replacement cost at 0.05 AI per mission V-I 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The V-I option with 4-day EDS and Orion loiter has a PnSL that is similar to that for the I-V option at 4.7%. The PnSL for this case was somewhat lower due to the lower complexity of the second launch vehicle. This case, however, resulted in the greatest expected cost of failure at 0.14 AI. In addition, the V-I launch order includes the additional considerations that involve the pressure to relax flight rules and the difficulty in replacing an Ares V stack V-I 14-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227 Of the three options, the V-I 14-day EDS loiter case presented the best PnSL value. The 1.9% PnSL wa s less than half the PnSL for either of the 4-day loiter cas es. However, because of the high cost of failure, the overall expected vehicle replacement cost per mission was similar to that of the I-V 4-day case In evaluating this case, the primary concern, however, was over the other required costs Because of the added boil-off propellant and other described EDS complexities required to support this duration, the baseline 51.0.48 Ares V option was no longer viable. The 51.0.47 Ares V option, with an upgraded capacity, would be required. The DDT&E costs for this upgrade would be large. The cost difference for the Ares V upgrade alone is estimated to be greater than $1B. In addition, the costs to upgrade the EDS, including photovoltaic arrays and MMOD protection, would be added. Although these are one-time DDT&E costs rather than recurring costs, they occu r in a phase of the program where the budget is most restricted In addition, the 51.0.47 design for the Ares V has been reserved as an option in case it is needed because of mass growth or performance uncertainty for the transportation system. If the upgraded design is adopted in the baseline to support a 14-day loiter and a more complex EDS, then no current options are available to provide a hedge against mass growth or performance uncertainty in the transportation system. While further upgrades to the EDS are possible, these upgrades were not considered desirable when the 51.0.48 and 51.0.47 options were down-selected for further consideration by the Constellation Program Because of the requirement to upgrade the Ares V to the 51.0.47 option, as well as the added complexity of the EDS stage, the V-I 14-day loiter case was removed from consideration for the 1\275-launc h launch operational concept While this option offers a significantly lesser PnSL than the other two options at 1.9% ve rsus 4.7% - 5.4%, the added costs and risks associated with this option, particularly costs during the crucial DDT&E period, were determined to be unacceptable. This opinion was reinforced by the results for total expected replacement cost While the V-I 14-day loiter case has a low PnSL, because of the high consequence of failure, the total expected replacement cost was actually somewhat greater than for the I-V 4-day loiter case 10  S ELECTION OF 1 1  2 L AUNCH P OINT OF D EPARTURE O PERATIONAL C ONCEPT  As described previously, the V-I 14-day loiter case was determined by decision makers to involve too much added cost and risk to justify the resultant improvement in PnSL The decision was reinforced by the fact that the second primary metric, the expected cost of failure, was not improved by the V-I case with a longer loiter period The two final cases, the I-V 4-day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter, were compared; the I-V launch order was selected for the baseline point-of-depar ture architecture The PnSL values, which represent the probability of a failure event during the dual launch phase, were similar for the I-V and V-I cases, at 5.4% and 4.7%, respectively. The expected replacement cost per mission was significantly lower for the I-V case, howev er. Even with the cost uncertainty, the I-V case clearly would likely always result in a lower total cost Crew safety was a major consideration in selecting between the two cases. A clear, quantifia ble added risk to the crew exists in selecting the I-V launch order. The crew would be required to endure an additiona l set of launch, loiter, and EDL events in the case of a missed second launch 


  14 However, because the probab ility of loss of crew is conditional to the PnSL, the overall added risk of 1 in 6,092 is considered to be quite small. This is particularly true when the added risk is compared with the overall risks to the crew that are anticipated for a human lunar mission In addition, although they could not be quantified at this point in time, additional crew risks are associated with the V-I launch order. Although no determination can be made at this point whether these range safety risks may be similar in magnitude to the added risks in the I-V case, they certainly cannot be totally discounted The selected I-V case with a 4-day loiter and 90-minute separation offered the most balanced results across the FOMs that were used in this study. The PnSL of 5.4% was larger than other cases but sim ilar to the PnSL that could be achieved in any case if the Ares V was limited to the 51.0.48 option. The consequence of failure in this case was much less than for the V-I case, which resulted in an expected cost of less than ha lf of that for the V-I launch order In addition, the other complexities that were associated with the V-I launch order\226potential pressure to relax flight rules and the disruptions caused by having to replace an Ares V\226 also trended toward the selection of the I-V launch order 11  P OINT OF D EPARTURE AND U NCERTAINTY  Note that the selected 1\275-launch operational concept represents only a point-of-departu re architecture to be used as a baseline for ongoing lunar architecture studies. It does not represent a final selection of launch order, separation, or loiter period, and NASA is taking no steps to preclude a change in the operational concept in the future In fact, because of the uncerta inty that is involved in the initial design and costing, the possibility exists that, upon further refinement, the parame ters that drive this study could change to a degree that would cause the operational concept to be reconsidered In addition, significant uncertainty exists in the data that were used to generate the Pn SL results in C-RAST. Because the Ares V is still in the early stages of design, large amount of uncertainty still exists as to the launch reliability for the vehicle. As the design matures and more accurate estimates of reliability become available, the operations concept could also be reconsidered In fact, it may ultimately be desirable to develop a 1\275launch system that allows for launch in either order. For the purposes of this study, the Ares V reliability and, therefore the PnSL were treated as consta nt values. Because there is a limited test program for the Ares V before the crewed lunar mission begins, there is liable to be significant growth in reliability for the Ares V over a number of missions. If the initial reliability is low, then the desire would be to launch the Ares V first so that the crew is not launched unnecessarily. Because the values used in this analysis represent the mature steady-stat e estimates, the PnSL for the I-V options could be worse than predicted in this analysis for some number of early missions. If the initial reliability is significantly lower, then it may be desirable to launch initial missions in a V-I order and then switch to I-V as reliability improves To address this uncertainty, an additional set of analyses was completed. In this uncertainty analysis, calculations were made to determine how much each major input parameter would have to change in order to cause the launch option decision to change, if that decision were made on expected replacement cost alone. The analysis was conducted by comparing the final two options: the I-V 4day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter cases The results of the uncertainty analysis are shown in Table 14. In this table, the current estimate used for each major parameter is listed. Then, the value for each parameter at which the launch order decision \(based on the expected cost of failure\would switch is listed. Generally, the required shifts are large, although the required changes in Table 14 are for single variables only. Simultaneous changes of multiple parameters that are lower in magnitude could also cause a change in the launch order decision The greatest level of uncertain ty in the current analysis involves the transportation element replacement costs Because of the uncertainty involving fixed and marginal costs for Altair and because of the uncertain nature of cost estimates in early design large shifts could potentially occur in the cost data for all elements as the designs mature Table 14. Sensitivity of Launc h Order Decision to Major Parameters Parameter Current Estimate Value at Which Launch Order Would Switch \(if all other values remain constant PnSL I-V 4-day loiter 5.4% 13.5 PnSL V-I 14-day loiter 4.7% 1.9 Cost of Ares I Stack 1.00 AI 2.5 AI Cost of Ares V Stack 2.88 AI 1.15 AI  


  15 In order to represent the impact of uncertainty in the cost data, a \223breakeven\224 cost ratio was determined. The important factor in compari ng expected costs for the I-V and V-I launch orders is not the absolute costs of the Ares I and Ares V stacks but rather the relative costs between the two. Given the predicted PnSL values for the I-V and V-I cases, any set of cost data in wh ich the cost of the Ares V is greater than 115% of the cost of the Ares I will result in the expected replacement cost pe r mission for the I-V option being lower. This relationship is depicted graphically in Figure 6 Figure 6 can be used to determine the resultant optimal launch order for any set of Ares I and Ares V stack replacement costs, based on mini mizing the expected cost of failure. The cost of the Ares V stack is specified on the horizontal axis, and the cost of the Ares I stack is specified on the vertical axis. The sloping red line in the center of the figure represents the break-even cost boundary. If the set of costs is below this line in the light-blue region, then the I-V launch order is preferable. If the set of costs are above the red line in the light-green region, then the V-I launch order is preferable The intent of Figure 6 is to provide a visual indication of how much change could occur in the cost estimates before the launch order decision would be reconsidered. The current cost estimates are represented as a vertical bar on the chart. The Ares I cost is fixed at 1.00 AI. The Ares V cost is represented as a range of 1.65 to 2.88 AI, which represents the full range that is produced by the possible inclusion of fixed costs Across the range of current co st estimates, a large margin still exists before the break-eve n point is reached. Even with no fixed costs included for the Ares V, the Ares V cost would have to decrease by 32%, or the Ares I cost would have to increase by 47% for the cost of failure to be equal for the two cases. These changes seem to be outside the current range of cost uncertainty The Constellation Program has initiated an action to monitor the key parameters identified in this analysis as the transportation element designs continue to mature. If the designs reach a state at wh ich the selected point-ofdeparture operational concept is called into question, then this baseline may be updated 12  S UMMARY  The initial specification of an operational concept for the 1\275-launch solution was largely based on three assumptions First, there was a \223gut reaction\224 that one would not want to risk launching a crew until the EDS and lander were safely in orbit. Second, the assumption was made that the probability of missing the second launch could be substantially reduced by providing a long loiter period for  Figure 6 \226 Relative Ares I and Ares V Stack Costs 


  16 the EDS. Finally, with long EDS loiter periods, the assumption was made that a 24-hour launch separation would have no significant impact on mission success More detailed analysis indicat ed that all three of these assumptions were not entirely accurate. The added risk to the crew, dictated by the c onditional probability of enduring a second launch and encountering a loss-of-crew event, was quite small, especially as compared with the total risk for a human lunar mission The ability to use added loiter to reduce PnSL was largely limited by the Ares V capabilities. Loiter periods of more than four days would require a change to the selected Ares V option \(significantly increasing DDT&E and unit cost and would substantially increase the complexity of the EDS Finally, with shorter loiter periods, the 24-hour launch separation significantly increased the probability of no second launch. The increase in PnSL outweighed the advantages of having a long separation between the launches Taking these limitations into account, the assumed launch order, launch separation, and lo iter duration were called into question. A structured methodology to evaluate the probability of failure, the cost of failure, and the risk to the crew allowed NASA decision makers to methodically compare the options and to se lect a point-of-departure for 1\275-launch operations that would result in the best expected mission performance Loiter durations of greater than four days were determined to be nonviable. The added cost and complexity of the Ares V and the EDS, particularly during the DDT&E period would impose significant affo rdability issues. Although the PnSL could be substantially reduced by increasing the loiter, these improvements did not justify the added complexity With loiter periods limited to four days or less, the 24-hour launch separation was also determined to be nonviable Although switching to a 90-minute separation would impose some operational complexity at launch and could impose some additional risk to the crew in a V-I launch order, these factors were outweighed by the significant penalty to PnSL Finally, the launch order itself was evaluated. With a 4-day loiter, both launch orders resulted in similar values for PnSL. The I-V order would result in some added crew risk in the event of a missed launch, but the magnitude of the added risk was determined to be quite small, especially because the crew would face some indeterminate added flight hazard risk in the V-I option as well. The major discriminator between launch orders was in the expected cost of failure. Because a 1\275-l aunch failure in the V-I order would result in the loss of an Ares V, the EDS, and the Altair lander, the consequence of failure is quite high. A failure in the I-V launch order would result in substantially lower costs to replace the Ares I and an Orion service module and refurbish an Orion crew module. The result of the large difference in relative co sts is that the expected cost of failure is substantially lower for the I-V launch order The results of the study allowed decision makers to select a I-V launch order, with a 90-minute separation and a 4-day EDS/Orion LEO loiter period as the point-of-departure operational concept. This concept will serve as the baseline for ongoing lunar mission development. However, as designs mature and the major parameters used in this analysis are refined, the operational concept for the 1\275launch solution will be further evaluated R EFERENCES    223Expl orat i on Sy st em s Archi t ect ure St udy   Fi nal  R e port 224  NASA-TM-2005-214062, November 2005. url http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/constellation/news/E SAS_report.html   Doug C ooke, \223Lunar Archi t ect ure Updat e\224 Nat i onal  Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2007. url http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/190083main_AIAA_ESMD_fin alSPACE2007.pdf 3 Gran t Cates, W illiam Cirillo an d Ch el Stro m g ren   223Lo w  earth orbit rendezvous strategy for lunar missions,\224 Proceedings of the I EEE 2006 Winter Simulation Conference ed. L.F. Perrone, F.P. Weiland, J. Liu, and B.G. Lawson, Piscataway, NJ, 2006, pp. 1248-1252  Phil Sum r all, Steve Creech, \223R efinements in the Design of the Ares V Cargo Launch Vehicle for NASA\222s Exploration Strategy\224,  AIAA 2008-4981, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Chel Stromgren currently serves as the Chief Scientist of the Center for Strategic Analytics at Science Application International Corporation \(SAIC\ this role Mr. Stromgren leads the development of probability and risk-based strategic models and strategic analysis of complex system development. Mr Stromgren has supported NASA in the analysis of Space Shuttle and International Sp ace Station operations in the post-Columbia environment and has led the development of strategic campaign models for the lunar exploration initiatives. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Marine Engineering and Naval Architecture from the Webb 


  17 Institute and a Master of Science degree in Systems Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Grant Cates is a Senior Operations Research Analyst at SAIC. He retired from NASA in 2006 after 25 combined years in federal service, including 7 years on active duty in the Air Force. At NASA he served in varying capacities on the Space Shuttle Program, including Space Shuttle Columbia Vehicle Manager and Flow Director He received a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Central Florida in 2004 William Cirillo currently serves as a Senior Researcher at NASA Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia, where he has worked for past 20 years in the area of Human Space Flight Systems Analysis. This has included studies of Space Shuttle, International Space Station, and Human Exploration beyond low Earth orbit. In 2005, Mr. Cirillo served at NASA Headquarters as a core member of the Exploration Systems Architecture Study \(E SAS\, where he was responsible for studying the use of Ares I/Orion in meeting future ISS crew and logistics transportation needs. Mr Cirillo currently leads a team of analysts within the NASA Constellation Program in assessing at a strategic and tactical level the manifesting of assembly and logistics flights for establishing permanent human presence on the Moon 


Figure 11  HIIAPS Data Processing Flow of previous processing systems HIIAPS would both reduce the costs and risk of creating a new processing center Storage Media Disk vs Tape Initially EOSDIS used tape-based storage Now it is slowly transitioning to disk based storage 31 34 T ape is easily transportable has faster read/write speeds but it is sequential access storage and a nearline media 36 37 On the other hand disk has a higher storage capacity per unit makes the data easily accessible online experiences more frequent technology upgrades but has higher electrical costs and is more prone to error 36 37 Disk storage is also more convenient to use because it is random access and data can be kept online as opposed to nearline or of\003ine all the time thus shortening data retrieval times It was been shown that disk storage is more expensive in the short term but in the long term the cost difference between disk and tape systems seems to converge This combined with the f act that ACPS the Ozone Monitoring Instrument Data Processing System OMIDAPS and MODAPS are all disk based storage leads to the conclusion that HIIAPS should also be an entirely disk based system especially with the Kryder's Law disk storage densities double every 23 months taken into account Data Formats As the previous section states it is imperative that HyspIRI data is made available to as many non-remote sensing scientists as possible Part of achieving this goal will be accomplished by distributing the data in a format that is easy to use A standard format would be helpful because it would guarantee that everybody could read that 002le format However there is no single standard format for geospatial data  N ASA  s EOSDIS currently uses HDF-EOS5 which is good for processing but not everyone can easily read the HDF 002le format 40 41 Ev en though there is no standard some formats are more easily accessible than others Using a GIS Geographic Information Systems format like a 003at georeferenced JPEG or PNG image would make HyspIRI data readily accessible to an already large user base and to those who do not use a GIS program The Open GIS Consortium Inc R r OGC is working to solve this formatting issue and towards Open GIS 43 223Open GIS is the full integration of geospatial data into mainstream information technology What this means is that GIS users would be able to freely exchange data over a range of GIS software systems and networks without having to worry about format conversion or proprietary data types Working with the OGC or at least staying in touch with their progress would help to maximize interoperability and accessibility Based on this HyspIRI should have at least two standard data formats One would be HDF-EOS5 because that is the standard NASA EOS format and HIIAPS can draw on pervious NASA experience for it The second would be a GIS ready format like a georeferenced JPEG or PNG to increase accessibility to HyspIRI data This section looked at how HyspIRI might 002t into the EOSDIS framework several previous processing systems and touched on accessibility and interoperability concerns HyspIRI should take advantage of the present EOSDIS infrastructure However HIIAPS should be a stand alone processing center so that HyspIRI's large data volume does not overtax the existing EOSDIS system There are three heritage systems for HIIAPS MODAPS OMIDAPS and ACPS each an the evolution of the next There has been a steady shift from tape-based storage to disk-based storage over the years Thus HIIAPS should use a disk-based storage system In addition to storage and processing distribution is also a concern for the HyspIRI mission HyspIRI data should be made available at no charge to as many people as possible in a manner accessible to as many people as possible Some of the challenges are choosing a data format reaching non-remote sensing scientists and providing the data in an easy to 002nd manner Using Google Earth TM and supplying HyspIRI data products in more than one format will help to solve this challenge 8 C ONCLUSION An end-to-end data system has been described for the HyspIRI mission a high data volume Earth-observing mission With the HyspIRI mission ambitious science objectives are driving the development of a cutting-edge data handling system both on-board the spacecraft and on the ground 18 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





