Exploration of cultural influences on Business and IT alignment   A.J.Gilbert Silvius Utrecht University of Applied Sciences \(HU  gilbert.silvius@hu.nl     Steven De Haes University of Antwerp UA\ of Antwerp Management School \(UAMS  steven.dehaes@ua.ac.be   Wim Van Grembergen University of Antwerp UA\ of Antwerp Management School \(UAMS wim.vangrembergen@ua.a c.be  Abstract  
Aligning IT to business needs is still one of the most important concerns for senior management. The message of Business and IT Alignment \(BIA\ is logical and undisputed, but implementation is apparently difficult. As part of a research program on the differences between the theory and practice of BIA this paper explores the impact of \(national\ cultures on the maturity of BIA The paper relies on Hofstede s framework of cultural dimensions t o under s t and t h e concept  of  culture. After a brief introduction on BIA we then 
analyze this influence by conceptually assessing the potential impact of Hofstede s cultural dimensions on the variables of BIA maturity. This conceptual exercise is than tested in a small-scale empirical exploration by comparing BIA maturity scores of Belgium and Dutch financial institutions The results support a potential effect of national cultures on BIA maturity, especially in governance maturity and skills maturity but not all expected results are confirmed 
  1. Introduction  Information technology \(IT\ is changing the way companies organize their business processes communicate with their \(potential\stomers and deliver their services k e y s u cces s f actor f o r a successful company is an effective and efficient alignment of the way IT is supporting business strategies and processes. The necessity and desirability of aligning business needs and IT capabilities is examined in numerous articles d 
its importance is well recognized [11  T h e a nnua l  survey of top management concerns by the Society for Information Management \(www.simnet.org\ ranked IT and Business alignment as the No. 1 concern for four years in a row las t y ear s survey, alignment lost its doubtful honor as the top concern to drop to the second place on the list. The alignment between 
business needs and IT capabilities therefore still is a prominent area of concern After many years of research into business and IT alignment \(BIA\han & Reich t ov er 150 studies, the prominent position of BIA as one of the top concerns, should be surprising. Should it be concluded that academic research still cannot provide solutions for the issues business and IT executives face in practice? We believe this is at least partly true. Some questions that practitioners face are not addressed in academic literatur m on g th ese qu estion s is th e 
impact of culture on BIA. Several authors suggest a relationship between the effectiveness of BIA and the culture within an organization. Other authors show that national cultures affect the way IT is used or perceive h is paper aim s to ex plore th e w a y  culture affects the maturity of BIA in organizations It is important to study the impact of culture on the alignment of business and IT because organizations are increasingly depending on IT for their communication and business processes. Information has become 
ubiquitous in many organizations and IT is therefore one of the most important resources of production and knowledge. However, embedding IT in organizations requires careful consideration of the organization s culture and the culture of its surrounding countries [37 54  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 Crown Copyright 


The central question that this paper addresses is how national culture influences the alignment of business and IT in organizations. After a brief paragraph on the concepts of BIA, and a framework for studying national cultures, we explore the relationship between culture and BIA. The last part of the paper presents a small-scale empirical study to explore the expected influence from national culture on BIA maturity  2. Business and IT Alignment  Despite of the apparent importance of aligning IT and business, the majority of publications are rather vague in terms of how to define or practice alignment  pres s i on s u s ed in  th is  con t ex t are fit  harmony  integration  linkage  bridge  fusion 41  Cha n 6  d i st i ngui she s t w o  prevailing conceptualizations of the alignment problem. The first one focuses on planning and objectives integration and views alignment as the degree to which the business mission, objectives and plans are supported by the IT mission, objectives and plans. This view can be found in Reich and Benbasat  s an d L e derer [23] an d Hirs ch h e im  an d Sabherwa m o re h o listic con ceptu alization of  BIA can be found in Henderson and Venkatraman Their widespread Strategic Alignment Model pictures BIA as a fit between functional domains, business and IT, on different levels Strategic externally focused directed towards the business environment, and organizational internally focused, directed towards administrative structures. Henderson and Venkatraman pay extensive attention to the different approaches of achieving this fit Based on the components of the strategic alignment model and his research on the enablers and inhibitors of BIA u f t m a n dev e loped a Bu s i n e s s  an d IT  Alignment Maturity model. In this model six criteria are used to determine the maturity of the alignment of IT and business h es e criteria are des c ribed in  Table 1. In the concept of BIA maturity, the level of maturity indicates an organization s capability to align IT to business needs. As in many maturity models Luftman s BIA maturity assessments involve five levels of maturity Since its publication, the application of Luftman s maturity model has been reported by several authors  h es e s t u d ies  an aly z e th e res u lts  of the assessments by industry sector, by respondent and/or by organizational contingencies. The potential influence of national cultures on BIA maturity however, is not analyzed in these reports. Given the influence of culture on the use and perception of IT, as was found in several studies \(referenced in section 4 seems likely that national culture may also have an influence on BIA maturity  3. National culture  Hofs i n e s cu ltu re as the collective programming of the mind, which characterizes the members of one organization from others By collective programming Hofstede refers to the symbols, heroes, rituals and values that collectively define a culture Cultures come in many different kinds or layers such as national cultures, organizational cultures organizational subcultures and occupational cultures  th is paper w e ex plore th e im pact of  national cultures on Business IT Alignment. We rely on Hofstede s dimension framework to understand more about the concept of national cultures. This framework characterizes culture on four dimensions  Table 1 BIA maturity variables   BIA maturity variable Description Communication How well does the technical and business staff understand each other? Do they connect easily and frequently? Does the company communicate effectively with consultants, vendors and partners? Does it disseminate organizational learning internally Value measurement How well does the company measure its own performance and the value of its projects? After projects are completed, do they evaluate what went right and what went wrong? Do they improve the internal processes so that the next project will be better Governance Do the projects that are undertaken flow from an understanding of the business strategy? Do they support that strategy? Does the organization have transparency and accountability for outcomes of IT projects Partnership To what extend have business and IT departments forged true partnerships based on mutual trust and sharing risks and rewards Scope & Architecture To what extend has technology evolved to become more than just business support? How has it helped the business to grow, compete and profit Skills Does the staff have the skills needed to be effective? How well does the technical staff understand business drivers and speak the language of the business? How well does the business staff understand relevant technology concepts  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


PDI \(Power Distance Index The power distance index is an indication of the extent to which less powerful members of a society accept unequal distribution of power. It reveals dependence relationships in a country. A low PDI shows limited acceptance of power inequality and less dependence of subordinates on managers. It also shows a preference for consultation and cooperation IDV \(Individualism vs. collectivism In cultures that are considered highly individualistic individuals are loosely tied and are expected to look out for themselves and their family. In collectivist  cultures, people are integrated into strongly cohesive in-groups, and group loyalty lasts a lifetime. In individualistic cultures, time, punctuality and schedules are considered highly important whereas in collectivistic cultures personal relationships and contacts prevail MAS \(Masculinity vs. femininity In the dichotomy masculine versus feminine, a masculine culture values assertiveness, performance and material success. In a feminine society values like quality of life, tenderness and modesty prevail In a feminine culture, individuals don t like to stand out or be unique, whereas in a masculine society success and career are valued highly UAI \(Uncertainty Avoidance Index The uncertainty avoidance index is defined as the extent to which the members of a culture feel threatened by uncertain or unknown situations 19 Cultures with a high UAI have a large need for rules and regulations to guide tasks. Cultures with a low UAI are less rule-dependent and are more trusting 33  Based on follow-up research among students in 23 countries around the world, and criticism that the model represented a very western way of thinking, a fifth dimension was  LTO \(Long Term Orientation vs. Short Term Orientation This dimension is an indication of the perception of time in a culture and is based on the heritage of Confucius, the most influential Chinese philosopher who lived around 500 B.C. Values associated with Long Term Orientation are thrift and perseverance values associated with Short Term Orientation are respect for tradition, fulfilling social obligations and protecting one's 'face   In his study, Hofstede measured the score of over 74 countries on these five dimensions Hofstede s framework may not be perfect, e.g. the omission of former Eastern European countries in the study has been criticized [32 an d so m e au th o r s [3 2    e r altern ativ e f r am ew ork s lik e Sch w artz s We, however, use Hofstede s framework in this study because it is widely known and used among both academics and practitioners., and the positions of the respondents in our study, management level professionals within an IT context, closely resemble Hofstede s respondents. In addition, alternative frameworks, like Schwartz s, achieved a refinement of Hofstede s work, rather than a contradiction  4. The impact of culture on Business and IT Alignment  National\Culture influences the way IT is perceived or used. Several authors [46, 25, 24, 20, 34  o u n d proof of t h i s  i n  t h ei r s t u d i e s   A l l  of these studies show a certain impact of national cultures in the perception and use of IT. Given these findings it can be expected that culture also influences the alignment of IT and business. This influence however, is not reflected in any studies on BIA so far In a reaction to his most recent report on the maturity of BIA in organizations u f t m a n  acknowledges the fact that international companies and international activities are included in the study. The potential influence of national cultures on BIA maturity is not analyzed. Given the impact of national cultures on the use and perception of IT found in earlier studies it can be expected that cultures could also influence the perception of BIA maturity on the different variables of Luftman s assessment model. For example, an expected relationship can be that countries with a higher uncertainty avoidance score place more emphasis on governance of IT, resulting in a higher score on governance maturity and value transparency In order to specify these relationships, the next section explores how BIA maturity scores on each variable may be influenced by the culture dimensions The influences that are expected are based on indications provided by literature. In section 5 of the paper the expected relationships between national culture and BIA maturity are further specified for the national cultures of the Netherlands and Belgium These countries, although geographical neighbors illustrate the differences between typical northern European and southern European cultures. The  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


expected relationships were tested in the small-scale research project reported in section 6   4.1 Power Distance Index  PDI - Communications maturity  Based on the findings of Sørnes be concluded that a low PDI score indicates close working relationships between hierarchical levels and assertive behavior by subordinates. This can be expected to result in a higher Communications maturity because of more intensive and less formalized communication PDI - Value measurement maturity Following the motivation stated under Communications', a lower PDI score can be expected to result in less need for creating transparency, procedures and reports that enhance Value measurement, therefore resulting in a lower maturity on this factor PDI - Governance maturity  Again based on the findings of Sørnes et al that concluded that a low PDI score indicates close working relationships between hierarchical levels and assertive behavior by subordinates, it should be expected that in cultures with a low PDI have less need for formalized governance processes, resulting in a relatively lower Governance maturity PDI - Partnership maturity  Following the motivation given under Communications', a lower PDI score can be expected to result in a higher Partnership maturity because of more intensive, less formalized and richer communication PDI - Scope & Architecture maturity  Given the characteristics of this factor, no indication was found in the literature to indicate how the PDI relates to the Scope & Architecture maturity PDI - Skills maturity  The high level of assertiveness that is expected to result from a low PDI score is stimulating entrepreneurship and initiative in lower organizational levels and can therefore be expected to result in a high Skills maturity  4.2 Individualism vs. Collectivism  IND - Communications maturity  In individualistic societies, the task will normally prevail over personal relationships h i g h  IND score could therefore indicate more task oriented communication that will result in a high maturity score, but lacks personal warmth that may be important in case of problems IND - Value measurement maturity Individualistic cultures will normally show a high appreciation of value and performance. It should therefore be expected that these societies score relatively high on Value measurement maturity IND - Governance maturity  In Hofstede s study, the United States scores highest most individualistic\f all nations on this dimension. The United States also developed strongly in governance as a reaction to fraudulous actions of individuals. It should therefore be expected that High IND cultures also score high on Governance maturity IND - Partnership maturity  In individualistic cultures personal task prevail collective tasks [49 A h i g h IND cu ltu re sh o u ld  therefore be expected to result in a lower Partnership maturity. On the other hand, Van Birgelen o u n d th at in  an  in div i du alis tic culture people seem to be more innovative and trusting in exchange relationships with external parties, which could be reflected in a higher Partnership maturity IND - Scope & Architecture maturity  Given the more collective nature of architecture it can be expected that a high IND culture should be reflected in a relatively low score on Architecture maturity. On the other hand, the findings of Van Birgelen ide in dication  th at a m o re individualistic culture is reflected in a higher Architecture maturity because of it's openness to exchange relationships with external parties IND - Skills maturity  A high IND culture can be expected to result in a high Skills maturity because of its appreciation of individual skill development  4.3 Masculinity vs. Femininity  MAS - Communications maturity  Hofstede s f i n d in g s  s u pport th e claim th at on eway communication will be more prominent in masculine countries, while two-way communication prevails in feminine countries. It should therefore be expected that a high MAS culture scores relatively lower on Communications maturity MAS - Value measurement maturity A high masculine culture values assertiveness and focuses on material success, while feminine  countries value modesty, tenderness, and quality of life A  h i g h MA S s c ore can th eref ore be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


expected to score high on Value measurement maturity MAS - Governance maturity  Because of its orientation on material success performance and measurement, a high MAS culture can be expected to score high on Governance maturity MAS - Partnership maturity  In more feminine cultures individuals don t like to stick out, be unique or conspicuous, unlike the more assertive and career-seeking individuals found in masculine cultures [44 T h is liv e an d  let liv e   approach could enhance partnerships between individuals, departments or organizations. A less MAS culture should therefore be expected to result in a higher Partnership maturity MAS - Scope & Architecture maturity  Because of its tendency to appreciate individual performance and success, a more masculine culture should be expected to score lower in Scope Architecture maturity, which has a non-individual character MAS - Skills maturity  Because of its orientation on work and material success a h i g h MA S cu ltu re s h ou ld be expected to result in a higher Skills maturity. On the other hand, a more "feminine" culture can be expected to stimulate a more diverse skills development that in fact could also result in a higher Skills maturity score   4.4 Uncertainty Avoidance Index   UAI - Communications maturity  A high UAI culture can be expected to score relatively lower on Communications maturity because of its tendency towards certainty, which does not stimulate open and informal communication UAI - Value measurement maturity Following the argumentation of Sørnes high UAI culture can be expected to avoid uncertainty about value, resulting in a higher score on Value measurement maturity UAI - Governance maturity  Following the same argumentation [44  a high U A I  culture can be expected to score high on Governance maturity because of its tendency to require certainty UAI - Partnership maturity  Given the fact that 'partnership' in general is based more on trust than on certainty, it should be  expected that a high UAI culture scores relatively low on Partnership maturity UAI - Scope & Architecture maturity  A high UAI culture can be expected to score high on Architecture maturity because of its tendency to create certainty and security, and the slower rate of adoption of new technologies, as was found by Png et al. [34 UAI - Skills maturity  Based on the findings of Livonen et al. [25   i t  c a n  be expected that a high UAI decreases the pace of individual learning and will result in a lower Skills maturity  5. Empirical exploration  As a first empirical exploration of the influence of national cultures on BIA, we compared the results of BIA maturity assessments in Belgium and the Netherlands. The selection of Belgium and the Netherlands was inspired by the substantial differences on three of the four Hofstede s culture variables by these neighboring countries. Belgium has a more southern European culture, quite close to the cultures of France and Italy, whereas the culture of Netherlands represents the northern European culture of countries like Norway, Sweden and Denmark. \(As a comparison The culture of the United States is close to the culture of the Netherlands on three dimensions \(IND, PDI and UAI\ the fourth dimension \(MAS\the United States score close to the Belgium culture.\able 2 shows the culture dimensions of the Netherlands and Belgium  Table 2 Belgium and the Netherlands compared on Hofstede s variables  PDI IND MAS UAI Power Distance Index Individualism vs Collectivism Masculinity vs Femininity Uncertainty Avoidance Index Maximum score all nations 104 91 110 112 Minimum score all nations 11 6 5 8 Score for the Netherlands 38 80 14 53 Score for Belgium 65 75 54 94               Note: Because of the fact that Belgium does not have a score on Hofstede s  long term orientation vs. short term orientation variable, this dimension is discarded in the rest of the paper  Based on these scores, and the analysis in section 4 of this paper, the expected relationships between national culture and BIA maturity can now be further specified for the national cultures of the Netherlands and Belgium Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


5.1 Power Distance Index  PDI - Communications maturity  The Belgium PDI is moderately high, whereas the PDI of the Netherlands can be classified as moderately low. Therefore it should be expected that the Netherlands scores higher in Communications maturity than Belgium Expectation Comm M NL > Comm M BE PDI - Value measurement maturity The relatively low PDI score of the Netherlands should result in a lower Value measurement maturity, compared to Belgium Expectation Value M NL < Value M BE PDI - Governance maturity  Given the difference in PDI scores of Belgium and the Netherlands it should be expected that Belgium scores higher in Governance maturity than the Netherlands Expectation Gov M NL < Gov M BE PDI - Partnership maturity Given the difference in PDI scores of Belgium and the Netherlands it should be expected that the Netherlands scores higher in Partnership maturity than Belgium Expectation Par M NL > Par M BE PDI - Scope & Architecture maturity  Given the lack of indications for this relationship it is unclear how the difference in PDI scores of Belgium and the Netherlands reflect in the Scope Architecture maturity scores Expectation Arch M NL ? Arch M BE PDI - Skills maturity  Given the difference in PDI scores for Belgium and the Netherlands it should be expected that Dutch companies score higher on Skills maturity than Belgium companies Expectation Sk M NL > Sk M BE  5.2 Individualism vs. Collectivism  Since Belgium and the Netherlands both score relatively high on the IDV factor, no specific difference in maturity score is expected on this variable Expectation All variables NL All variables BE  5.3 Masculinity vs. Femininity  MAS - Communications maturity  The Dutch culture can be classified as strong feminine, whereas Belgium takes on a middle position on this factor. This strengthens our earlier expectation that the Netherlands scores higher in Communications maturity than Belgium Expectation Comm M NL > Comm M BE MAS - Value measurement maturity The difference in MAS scores in Belgium and the Netherlands can be expected to result in a higher Value measurement maturity for Belgium companies, compared to Dutch companies Expectation Value M NL < Value M BE MAS - Governance maturity  The difference in MAS scores in Belgium and the Netherlands strengthens the expectation that Belgium companies will show a higher Governance maturity score, compared to Dutch companies Expectation Gov M NL < Gov M BE MAS - Partnership maturity  The high feminine score of the Netherlands provides indication that Dutch companies should be expected to show a higher Partnership maturity score than Belgium companies Expectation Par M NL > Par M BE MAS - Scope & Architecture maturity  The high feminine score of the Netherlands can be expected to reflect in a relatively high score on Scope & Architecture maturity, compared to Belgium Expectation Arch M NL > Arch M BE MAS - Skills maturity  Given the different expected effects of masculinity/femininity on the Skills maturity score it is not possible to specify an expectation for the difference between Belgium and Dutch culture on this factor Expectation Sk M NL ? Sk M BE  5.4 Uncertainty Avoidance Index  UAI - Communications maturity  On UAI Belgium scores quite high and the Netherlands take a middle position. Again this indicates that the Netherlands is expected to score higher on Communications maturity than Belgium Expectation Comm M NL > Comm M BE UAI - Value measurement maturity  The high UAI score of Belgium again this provides indication that Belgium companies should show a higher score on Value measurement maturity compared to Dutch companies Expectation Value M NL < Value M BE UAI - Governance maturity  Given the high UAI score of Belgium also this factor provides an indication that Belgium Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


companies should be expected to show a higher Governance maturity score than Dutch companies Expectation Gov M NL < Gov M BE UAI - Partnership maturity  This factor again provides indication that the Netherlands should be expected to score higher on Partnership maturity than Belgium Expectation Par M NL > Par M BE UAI - Scope & Architecture maturity  Following Png's motivation [33 it sh o u ld b e  expected that the high UAI score of Belgium is reflected in a high score on Architecture maturity Expectation Arch M NL < Arch M BE UAI - Skills maturity  Given the high UAI score of Belgium, this provides support for the expectation that the Netherlands score higher on Skills maturity than Belgium companies Expectation Sk M NL > Sk M BE  5.5 Summary Based upon this analysis, the expectations for the differences between Belgium and the Netherlands can be summarized as shown in Table 3  6. The study  6.1 Participants  For this study, three Dutch companies and three Belgium companies in the financial services sector banks, insurance companies, etc.\were selected. The choice for the financial services sector was made because, among different industries, financial services together with manufacturing and retailing, is the first industry to use information technologies and as such is already more mature in these domains, making empirical research interesting o av oid bias by th e overall BIA maturity, the participating companies were selected to have matching total maturity scores deliberate sampling  Table 4 Participants in the study  Compan y   Employees  Respondents D utch companies 1 Merchant Bank 500-1000 8 2 Investment Bank 250-500 9 3 Insurance company 5000 6 B elgium companies 1 Bank / Insurance 5000 11 2 Bank >5000 9 3 Insurance broker 500-1000 8  Table 4 shows the participants of the study. In each of the organizations, 6 to 11 business and IT managers completed the survey. Comparing the maturity scores assigned by business and IT per organization reveals that for most organizations the difference between the business and IT rating was not large. Trochim [47  refers to this as convergent validity, providing relative confidence into our measurement tool, as it shows that two totally independent groups \(business and IT within one single organization are coming up with very similar appreciations for the business/IT alignment maturity. This confidence in the measurement instrument is supported by work of Cumps who used a very similar measurement instrument based on the Luftman s [29 m a tu rity m o d e l, an d  f o u n d  th at the alignment scoring was sufficiently robust for further analysis Table 3 Summary of the expected differences between Belgium and the Netherlands   PDI IND MAS UAI Expectation Com m M NL  Comm M BE Comm M NL  Comm M BE Comm M NL  Comm M BE Comm M NL  Comm M BE Value M NL  Value M  BE Value M NL  Value M BE Value M NL  Value M BE Value M NL  Value M BE Gov M NL  Gov M BE Gov M NL  Gov M BE Gov M NL  Gov M BE Gov M NL  Gov M  BE Par M NL  Par M BE Par M NL  Par M BE Par M N L  Par M BE Par M NL  Par M BE Arch M NL  Arch M BE Arch M NL  Arch M BE Arch M NL  Arch M BE Arch M N L  Arch M BE Sk M NL  Sk M BE Sk M N L  Sk M  BE Sk M NL  Sk M BE Sk M NL  Sk M BE C om munications maturity V alue measurement maturity G overnance maturity Partnership m aturity Skills maturity Partnership maturity NL  Part ne rsh ip m atu rit y B Undecided S cop e Ar ch ite ct ure m atu rity G over nan ce m atur ity NL  G overnance maturity B Com m u nic ations m atu rity NL  Com m u nic ations m atu rity B Value m easur em en t maturity NL  Value m easurem ent maturity B Skills m aturity NL  Skills maturity B  Belgium Netherlands  3,0 2,7 3,8 3,2 3,3 2,8 2,9 2,9 3,4 3,2 2,8 3,2 1 2 3 4 Communications Value measurement Governance Partnership Scope and architecture Skills   Figure 2 BIA maturity scores of the Belgium and Dutch participants Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


6.2 Results  Figure 2 shows the overall average results of the BIA maturity assessments of the Belgium and Dutch participants. From this graph, some differences are immediately clear, specifically for skills  governance and scope and architecture Figure 3 shows the results on a deeper level. Based upon these differences, the following analysis can be made  Communications maturity  Average maturity of Belgium participants: 3.0 Average maturity of Dutch participants: 2.9 The scores of the Belgium participants and of the Dutch participants do not show a lot of difference, also on the level of the individual assessment items shown in Figure 3. The expected difference is therefore not confirmed  Value measurement maturity  Average maturity of Belgium participants: 2.7 Average maturity of Dutch participants: 2.9 The scores of the Belgium participants and of the Dutch participants on this variable show some difference. On the more detailed level, a substantial difference is shown on the item Formal assessments reviews The direction of the difference, however, is opposite to the expectation. The expected difference is therefore not confirmed  Governance maturity  Average maturity of Belgium participants: 3.8 Average maturity of Dutch participants: 3.4 On this variable of BIA maturity, the results show the expected difference that the Belgium participants score higher than the Dutch participants. On the more detailed level it becomes clear that especially the prioritization process is scored significantly different The expected difference is therefore confirmed  Partnership maturity  Average maturity of Belgium participants: 3.2 Average maturity of Dutch participants: 3.2 The scores of the Belgium participants and of the Dutch participants on this variable are equal. The expected difference is therefore not confirmed  Scope & Architecture maturity  Average maturity of Belgium participants: 3.3 Average maturity of Dutch participants: 2.8 For this variable the expectation was undecided. The results show a remarkably higher score of the Belgium participants than of the Dutch participants. On the more detailed level this difference shows on all items  Skills maturity Average maturity of Belgium participants: 2.8 Average maturity of Dutch participants: 3.2 For this variable, the results show the expected difference that the Dutch participants score a higher maturity than the Belgium participants. On the more detailed level it becomes clear that this difference shows on all items, but most strongly on Ability to attract and retain and Change readiness The expected difference is confirmed  Table 5 shows the summary of the results of this exploratory study    0,00 0,50 1,00 1,50 2,00 2,50 3,00 3,50 4,00 4,50 5,00 Und e rstand i ng of b u sines s by IT Und ers tand ing of I T b y bu si n e ss Inte r/I ntraorg aniz ati onal lea rn ing K now led ge S ha rin g I T Metr i cs Business Metric s Bal a nc ed M et ric s Formal Assessments/Revie ws Conti n uous Im proveme n Budgetar y Cont r o l IT inves tm ent m a nage m en P riorit iz ation pr oces s Busin e ss per c eption o f IT val ue S hared  goals r isk, re w ards p e nalt i e s Re lat ions hip trus t st yl e Sta nd a rds Ar t iculatio n Ar chit ectu ral inte grat io n D isr upti on from Ch ang es Inn o vation  Entre p reneu rs hip Loc us of Po w er Cha n ge rea d ines s Ab i lity to attract a n d reta i n Netherlands Belgium Communications maturity Value measurement maturity Governance maturity Partnership maturity Scope & Architecture maturity Skills maturity  Figure 3. Detailed BIA maturity scores of the Belgium and Dutch participants Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Table 5 Summary of expectations and results  Expectation Result Comm M NL Comm M BE Comm M NL Comm M BE Value M NL Value M BE Value M NL Value M BE Gov M NL Gov M BE Gov M NL Gov M BE Par M NL Par M BE Par M NL Par M BE Arch M NL Arch M BE Arch M NL Arch M BE Sk M NL Sk M BE Sk M NL Sk M BE Confirmed Not confirmed Not appliccable no expectation Partnership maturity Scope & Architecture maturity Skills maturity Confirmed Not confirmed Not confirmed Communications maturity Value measurement maturity Governance maturity    7. Conclusions and limitations  The conceptual analysis of the potential influence of national cultures on BIA maturity provides indications that this influence is indeed more than likely and that its influence is consistent over the different dimensions of culture. Our first empirical exploration provided support for the existence of differences in BIA maturity between countries. More specifically, the differences in scores regarding the alignment domains governance maturity and skills maturity could be explained by Hofstede s cultural differences studies, with governance maturity scoring higher in Belgium and skills maturity scoring better in the Netherlands. One a more detailed level, it was expected and confirmed that the portfolio management process received better in Belgium and that Ability to attract and retain and Change readiness clearly received better scores in the Netherlands Our study did not, however, confirm all expected results. The domains communications maturity  value measurement maturity and partnership maturity did not show the difference in scores that were expected. In fact, the scores showed no clear substantial at all. A potential explanation for this result could be the small sample size. Therefore, further study should be made, based on larger samples, to further explore and study the impact of cultural differences on business and IT alignment scores. Such studies can expand the comparison between Belgian and Dutch results, but could also address cultural differences between other nations worldwide  References  1  A VOLIO   B  K AHAI   S    D ODGE   G. \(2000 E-leadership Implications for theory, research, and practice Leadership Quarterly, 11 \(4\, 615-668 2] B ATENBURG R. \(2007 E-procurement adoption by European Firms: A quantative analysis Journal of Purchasing & Supply Management, 13, 182-192 3  B IRGELEN   M VAN   R UYTER   K.D  J ONG   A.D    W TZELS M 2002 Customer evaluations of after-sale service contact modes An empirical analysis of national culture's consequences  International Journal of Research in Marketing, 19, 43-64 4  B OND M.H. \(1984 Hofstede's Culture Dimensions ; An Independent Validation Using Rokeach's Value Survey Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, Vol. 15, No. 4, 417-433 5  C HAN   Y.E  H UFF   S.L  B ARCLAY   D.W AND C OPELAND D.G 1997 Business Strategy Orientation, Information Systems Orientation and Strategic Alignment Information Systems Research, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 125-150 6  C HAN   Y.E. \(2002 Why Haven t we Mastered Alignment? The Importance of the Informal Organization Structure MIS Quarterly Executive, Vol. 1, No. 2 7  C HAN   Y.E    R EICH   B.H. \(2007 IT alignment: what have we learned Journal of Information Technology advance online publication, 18 September 2007; doi: 10.1057/palgrave.jit.2000109 8  C HIASSON   M.W AND D AVIDSON   E., \(2005\, Taking industry seriously in Information Systems research MIS Quarterly, Vol. 29 Issue 4, p591-605 9  C IBORRA C.U. \(1997 De Profundis? Deconstructing the Concept of Strategic Alignment Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems, 9\(1\, pp. 67-82 10  C UMPS   B  V IAENE   S  D EDENE   G AND V ANDENBULCKE   J 2006 An Empirical Study on Business/ICT Alignment in European Organisations 39th Hawaii International Conference on Systems Science \(HICSS-39\, Waikoloa, Big Island, HI, USA 11  C UMPS   B  M ARTENS   D  D E B ACKER   M  H AESEN   R  V IAENE   S  D EDENE   G  B AESENSD   B AND S NOECKA   M. \(2006 Predicting Business/ICT Alignment with AntMiner KBI0708 Research paper Department of Decision Sciences and Information Management \(KBI\, Catholic University of Leuven 12  D E H AES   S AND V AN G REMBERGEN   W. \(2008 Analysing the Relationship Between IT Governance and Business/IT Alignment  41 st Hawaii International Conference on Systems Science \(HICSS41\, Waikoloa, Big Island, HI, USA 13  E KSTEDT   M  J ONSSON   N  P LAZAOLA   L  M OLINA   E.S    V ARGAS   N  2005 An Organization-Wide Approach for Assessing Strategic Business and IT Alignment PICMET conference 14  G EFEN   D    S TRAUB   D. \(1997 Gender differences in the perception & use of e-mail: Extension to the technology acceptance model MIS Quarterly, 21 \(4\, 389-400 15  H ALL   E  T. \(1976\. Beyond culture. NY: Anchor Press 16  H ENDERSON   J.C    V ENKATRAMAN   N. \(1993 Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations IBM Systems Journal, Vol. 32, no. 1 17  H IRSCHHEIM R AND S ABHERWAL R  2001 Detours in the Path toward Strategic Information Systems Alignment: Paradoxical Decisions, Excessive Transformations, and Uncertain Turnarounds  California Management Review, 44\(1\, pp. 87-108 18  H OFSTEDE G. \(1980 Culture's consequences: International differences in work related values Newbury Park, CA: Sage 19  H OFSTEDE G. \(1991 Culture and organizations: Software of the mind London, UK: McGraw Hill Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


20  H OFSTEDE   G. \(2000 The information age across cultures  Proceedings of 5th AIM conference Information Systems and Organizational Change. CD-Rom, 10pp 21 h t t p    www g e e r t h o f s t e d e  c o m  h o f s t e d e _ d i m e n s i o n s  php on February 28th, 2008 22  K AARST B ROWN   M.L AND R OBEY   D. \(1999 More on myth magic and metaphor: Cultural insights into the management of information technology in organizations Information Technology People, Volume: 12, Issue: 2 , Page: 192 218 23  K EARNS   G.S AND L EDERER   A.L. \(2004 The impact of industry contextual factors on IT focus and the use of IT for competitive advantage Information & Management, Vol. 41, pp 899-919 24  L EIDNER D  E  C ARLSSON S  E LAM J    C ORRALES   M. \(1999 Mexican and Swedish managers' perceptions of the impact of EIS on organizational intelligence, decision making, and structure  Decision Sciences, 30 \(3\, 633-658 25  L IVONEN   M  S ONNENWALD   D  H  P ARMA   M    P OOLE K OBER E. \(1998 Analyzing and understanding cultural differences: Experiences from education in library and information studies Proceedings of the 64th IFLA General Conference Amsterdam, Netherlands 26  L UFTMAN   J.N  L EWIS   P.R AND O LDACH   S.H. \(1993 Transforming the Enterprise: The Alignment of Business and Information Technology Strategies IBM Systems Journal, Vol. 32 1 27  L UFTMAN   J.N AND B RIER   T. \(1999 Achieving and Sustaining Business-IT Alignment California Management Review, Vol. 42, 1 28  L UFTMAN   J.N  P APP   R AND B RIER T. \(1999 Enablers and Inhibitors of Business-IT Alignment Communications of the Association for Information Systems, Vol 1, Article 11 29  L UFTMAN   J.N  2000 Assessing Business-IT Alignment Maturity Communications of the Association for Information Systems, Vol 4, Article 14 30  L UFTMAN   J.N  2007 An Update on Business-IT Alignment A Line Has Been Drawn MIS Quarterly, Vol. 6 No. 3, pp. 165 31  M AES   R  R IJSENBRIJ   D  T RUIJENS   O AND G OEDVOLK   H  2000 Redefining Business-IT Alignment through a unified framework http://im www.fee.uva.nl/~maestro/PDF 2000-19.pdf 32  M ILLER   S  B ATENBURG   R.S    W IJNGAERT   L VAN DE 2006 National Culture Influences on European ERP Adoption In J Ljungberg & M. Andersson \(Eds.\, 14th European Conference on Information Systems \(pp. 1-12\. Göteborg 33  M OOIJ   M DE 2000 The future is predictable for international marketers: Converging incomes lead to diverging consumer behavior International Marketing Review, 17 \(2\, 103113 34  P NG   I.P.L  T AN   B.C.Y    W EE   K.L. \(2001 Dimensions of national culture and corporate adoption of IT Infrastructure IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 48 \(1\, 36-45 35  P YBURN   P.J. \(1983 Linking the MIS Plan with Corporate Strategy: An Exploratory Study MIS Quarterly, Vol. 7, No. 2 36  R EICH   B.H AND B ENBASAT I. \(1996 Measuring the Linkage between Business and Information Technology Objectives MIS Quarterly, Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 55-81 37  R OSS   D  N. \(2001 Electronic communications: Do cultural dimensions matter American Business Review, pp. 75-81 38  S ABHERWAL   R AND C HAN Y. E. \(2001 Alignment Between Business and IS Strategies: A Study of Prospectors, Analyzers, and Defenders Information Systems Research, 12\(1\, pp. 11-33 39  S CHWARTZ S.H. \(1994 Beyond individualism-collectivism New cultural dimension of values In U. Kim, H.C. Tirandis, C Kagitcibasi, S-C. Choi, and G. Yoon \(Eds.\, Individualism and collectivism: Theory, method, and applications \(pp85-199\. New York: Reidel 40  S ILVIUS   A.J.G. \(2007 Business & IT Alignment in Theory and Practice 40th Hawaii International International Conference on Systems Science \(HICSS-40\, Waikoloa, Big Island, HI, USA 41  S MACZNY T. \(2001 IS an Alignment between Business and IT the Appropriate Paradigm to Manage IT in Today s Organisation Management Decision, 39 \(10 42  S MITH   P.B AND B OND M.H. \(1998\ Social Psychology across Cultures. Paris: Prentice Hall Europe 43  S OCIETY OF I NFORMATION M ANAGEMENT 2003, 2004, 2005 2006, 2007 Execs provide insight into top management concerns technology developments in new SIM survey  http://www.simnet.org/Content/NavigationMenu/About/Press_Rele ases/PressReleases.htm 44  S RNES   J-O  S TEPHENS   K  S TRE   A.S    B ROWNING   L.D 2004 The Reflexivity between ICTs and Business Culture Applying Hofstede s Theory to Compare Norway and the United States Informing Science Journal, Volume 7, 2004 45  S TRAUB   D  W  1994 The effect of culture on IT diffusion: email and fax in Japan and the US Information Systems Research, 5 1\, 23-47 46  S TRAUB   D  W  K EIL   P    B RENNER A. \(1997 Testing the technology acceptance model across cultures: A three country study Information & Management, 31 \(1\, 1-11 47  T ROCHIM W.,  \(2001\, The Research Methods Knowledge Base, 2e. Atomic Dog Publishing 49  V EIGA   J.F  F LOYD   S    D ECHANT   K. \(2001 Towards modelling the effects of national culture on IT implementation and acceptance Journal of Information Technology, 16 \(3\3, 145-158 50  V ENKATRAMAN   N  1989 The concept of fit in strategy research Academy of Management Review, 14\(3 51  W AARTS   E    E VERDINGEN   Y VAN 2005 The Influence of National Culture on the Adoption Status of Innovations: An Empirical Study of Firms Across Europe European Management Journal, Volume 23, Issue 6, December 2005, Pages 601-610 52  W ALLS   J. \(1993\. Global networking for local development Task focused and relationship focused in crosscultural communication. In L. Harasim, Global networks: Computers and international communication. The MIT Press: Cambridge, Mass 53  W ATSON   R.T  K ELLY   G.G  G ALLIERS   R.D    B RANCHEAU   J.C  1997 Key issues in information systems management: an international perspective Journal of Management Information Systems, Volume 13,  Issue 4, Pages: 91 115 54  W ESTRUP   C  L IU   E  E L S AYED   H    A L J AGHOUB   S  2003  Taking culture seriously: ICTs, cultures and Development In: S Krishna & S. Madon \(Eds.\, ICTs and Development: New Opportunities, Perspectives and Challenges, Ashgate 55  W EILL   P AND B ROADBENT   M. \(1998 Leveraging The New Infrastructure; How Market Leaders Capitalize on Information Technology Harvard Business School Press 56  Y IN 2002, Case Study Research: Design and Methods Third Edition \(Applied Social Research Methods\, Sage Publications Inc Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Automated Windowed Coefficient Trending Earlier we attempted to find explanatory models whose coefficients changed over time in a predictable way This would then let us predict future coefficient values for these models and apply these trended models towards future estimates The problem was that we were not able to find such stable models at least manually We automated our search for stable models by building a system we refer to as the Automated Coefficient Trend Search ACTS tool A patent is currently pending for the method implemented in this software Against the Far Out data set ACTS is designed to automatically permute fields run chronologically-windowed regressions with the chosen fields establish linear and nonlinear trends for the resulting coefficients and then use these trended coefficients to estimate a future set of data ACTS also automatically tries up to seven different transformations on any given dependant or independent variable The length of calibration windows and the increment between them are automatically varied ACTS establishes most promising coefficient trends and also rates the performance of predictions done using trended-coefficient models With so many parameters transformations windows length and intervals to evaluate ACTS needed to search a huge problem space Despite assembling a cluster of 8 computers to run ACTS if necessary for months the problem still required pruning Each run of ACTS was therefore restricted to producing models with a different number of variables between 3 and 15 We quickly found that the best models contained very few parameters due to over-fitting on wider models permitting us to pare down the problem Neural Netv 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 I  M The system produced literally thousands of forecasts for each project If the distribution of project costs and project costs estimates were known a confidence interval could be computed using the cost estimates and a method such as Bayesian model averaging used to integrate them 5 Not having a priori knowledge of this distribution we chose instead to use the inter-quartile range of the estimates that is we looked at whether the estimate fell between the first and third quartile of the estimates The top and bottom 25 were disregarded because there are always outliers and it was presumed the system could work well even when many of the individual estimates were not very good Given the very large number of estimates produced by the system literally thousands or tens of thousands depending on the settings we could afford to squander a few Results were best with only three variables per equation In eight out of 31 projects 26 of the projects the project's actual costs fell within the inter-quartile range of the forecasts of costs for that project produced by the ACTS models For 30 out of 31 projects the inter-quartile range of estimates was made up of over a thousand estimates while for the 3 1st project only 446 estimates were part of the inter-quartile range The significance of these numbers is revealed in the next paragraph When equations with four variables were used only one of the true project costs fell within the inter-quartile range of forecasts produced by ACTS When more than 4 variables were used none of the true project costs fell within the interquartile range From this we concluded that ACTS performed best when only 3 variables were included in each model Using more variables appears to produce over-fitted models Aork MRE By Lauch Month Chronologic 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 Launch Month Since 1960 Figure 10 Neural network magnitude of relative error sorted chronologically 11 space 


incapable of accurate forecasts Of course the wider the inter-quartile range of forecasts the more likely it is that the true forecast will fit within that range But how parsimonious is the range As figure 11 shows in about 55\2600 of the inter-quartile ranges created by ACTS the 3rd quartile of estimates is 50%0 larger than the Ist quartile of estimates For about 90\2600 of the ranges created the difference between the I't and 3rd quartile is less than 75\2600 and for 97\2600 of the projects the top of the range is 100 or less than the bottom of the range 45\2600 of the true project costs falling into the new range When the top and bottom of the range were changed by 50\2600 the range estimates encompassed 77\2600 of the true project costs In the end however we felt that the adjusted ranges were too wide for practical use Adaboosting using binomial logit classifiers Short for adaptive boosting the Adaboost algorithm 6 is a type of machine learning algorithm where a set of classifiers are adjusted to favor previous misclassifications These classifiers are actually other estimating algorithms Percentage of Time 3rd Quartile no more than XO/o Greater than 1st Quartile 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 25 50 75 100 Figure 11 Variation in ACTS-produced estimates measured between 3rd and 1st quartile Percentage of time True Cost Falls in Range Produced by ACTS 3 variable ersion 90 8070 60 5040 30 20 10 l 0 Interquartile  or10  or25  or50  or75 Figure 12 The effect of widening the estimating range measured by  of estimates now lying within Of the eight projects that fell within the average percentage difference between the 1st and 3rd quartile was 55 with median of 52 This indicated that the inter-quartile range might be too restrictive We therefore proceeded to widen the range of cost estimates for each project multiplying the ISt quartile estimate by 1 X%0 and the 3rd quartile estimate by 1  X using various Xs In each instance we compared actual project costs to estimates produced and determined how frequently the actual fell into the range of estimates Results are summarized in figure 12 When the top and bottom of the range were changed by 10 32 of the actual estimates fell within the new range Extending each of the range boundaries by 25 resulted in Adaboost works by iteratively weighting observations so that poorly classified ones are given more weight during the next iteration With the algorithm focused on improving estimates for exceptional cases it is somewhat more sensitive to noisy data and outliers though less likely to over fit We chose to test this approach due to the latter property The boosting algorithm seemed structured particularly for binary decisions though we are seeking to estimate a continuous variable cost We therefore staged the method by estimating cost bands so that the estimate for each band reverted to a binary decision The algorithm would separately estimate whether an observation was 12 


our evaluation method tested potential models using either ordinary least squares least absolute above or below X dollars then Y dollars then Z such that instead namely that we were examining a proportion rather X  Y  Z than a binary outcome but this was impractical to use and we judged that the problem was not strongly biased towards The boosting algorithm still required a classifier and model either context For a classifier we implemented binary logit78 a discrete Adaboost MRE By COST Lu was similar to ACTS but with 0 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0.00 0.25 0 50 0 75 1 00 1 25 1 50 1 75 2 00 Cost Figure 13 Adaboost magnitude of relative error sorted by actual cost Adaboost MRE CHRONOLOGICALLY Year Figure 14 Adaboost magnitude of relative error sorted chronologically choice model specifically intended for a binary dependant variable is the cost above or below this point There may have been some support for using the probit model 7 This was done by a statistical programmer with output checked against the statistics program STATA 8 we obtained from this first stage system We also attempted to use OLS as a classifier but our experiments showed no significant effect from adding relatively orthogonal i.e unrelated models Since using more than one model did not make a difference boosting using OLS was little more than a single OLS model with estimates divvied up in bands no dynamic re-weighting of classifiers and thus no boosting effect to speak of To obtain models some changes and improvements and again put were discarded and resolved by the latter 13 Lu 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0.00 0 0.50 0.75 1 00 1.25 1 50 1 75 2 00 error which better discounts outliers and weighted least squares The models which we built another windowed test system that our computing cluster to use trying to find good ones from were then used to bootstrap the binary logit method although coefficients a sea of potential transformations This time 


This exercise required a number of decisions about how many classifiers to use how many bands to estimate and how many variables should be used in the models All these choices were made empirically Models with 3 variables were marginally more accurate than those with 4 More models seemed generally better to a point so we used 99 models We also used 22 cost bands checking whether an estimate was above or below 12M 35M 44M and so on through 519M It is interesting to note that there was no data scarcity-induced limit on the number of bands we could have used since each was estimated using all observations lying above and below and not just between bands As with the neural network training was carried out using 52 missions from the 1960s through 1996 and testing occurred on 58 missions from 1996 through 2007 The trend in estimate deviation would again permit us to gauge whether predictive accuracy decayed over time Results are shown sorted by cost in figure 13 and chronologically in figure 14 Figure 13 shows that MREs are large and negative for missions at 56M actual mission cost and below Above this point results are mixed although not as poor as at the very low range There seems to be no degradation in predictive accuracy as projects increase in scale The correlation between estimates and actual values is approximately 0.66 Sorted chronologically in figure 14 no trend can be seen as estimates go farther out up to 11 years as was seen with the neural network Again this may have been due to the normalization process in which we mapped each variable to its percentage ranking based on future and past minimum and maximum values basically embedding the effect of time within the factors being input to the model It also may be due to a relatively stable era Weighted combinations of simple models A persistent problem in multivariate estimation methods which has been mentioned is that a model may be produced that over fits the observations used for calibration It would thus not be adequately generalized to estimate out of that sample Techniques such as jack-knifing and outlier removal can mitigate this We chose another approach developing models that were little more than simple rules of thumb and then combining these in a weighted manner so each would have a say in the estimate The weightings were formulated using Excel's Solver to minimize estimation error on a set observations lying 15 to 25 years before the test set We refer to this method as continuous boosting because as with the Adaboost method it too involves a mix of classifiers that are combined according to their performance against a set of test observations Unlike Adaboost which solves a binary problem the algorithms are here estimating on a continuous scale Also unlike Adaboost the models are re-weighted rather than the observations to maximize prediction Before presenting results it is worth noting that we ran a control test where all variables from the simple rules of thumb were combined into a single model and run on the same windows performance was nowhere near as good We chose the models by hand guided by the criteria that they should be relatively orthogonal rely on differing parameters so they could each contribute a unique influence to the combined result Figure 15 shows that MREs are mostly positive though for lower cost missions errors are regularly negative and large Continuous Boost MRE By COST M M 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 Cost Figure 15 Continuous boosting magnitude of relative error sorted by actual cost 14 


CONCLUSIONS Given that this project was intended to estimate missions lying 10-15 years out we structured it differently than one intended to estimate contemporary projects A variety of conventional techniques were not used as we felt they would over fit training observations and thus not be suitable for prediction We also were not sure which approach would work so we tried many We heavily favored ensemble methods where models are combined because we surmised that any one model could not be guaranteed to have the best view of the future However a single neural network ultimately yielded the most competitive results Another finding was that methods built upon simple models such as with three variables generally did work best not surprisingly because they were less likely to over fit calibration data A graph of the three best methods is shown in figure 18 with estimates for the same missions sorted by cost For the neural network calibration occurred until just before the results shown for continuous boosting calibration occurred no more recently than 15 years prior to the results and for Adaboost calibration also occurred up until the results shown A graph sorted by year is not shown we think it instructive that no results seemed to degrade over time As mentioned but obvious from figure 17 the neural network performs best followed by Adaboost and then continuous boosting It is interesting to note that the three cases in which the neural network goes haywire and predicts too low also correspond to worst performances for the Adaboost method pointing to exceptional data points We will be further investigating these regularly errant results and other outliers which may result in estimating improvements ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was carried out under Small Business Innovation Research contract FS9453-05-C-0023 with the Air Force Research Lab The authors wish to gratefully acknowledge Judy Fennelly and later Ross Wainwright our technical points of contact at AFRL for their continuous support and encouragement Our contract officer Timothy Provencio also provided invaluable assistance Our critical seed stock of data was provided by Joseph Hamaker who previously was Director of NASA Headquarters Cost Analysis Division and now is Senior Cost Analyst with SAIC Ainsley Chong and Dale Martin USAF Ret also lent considerable assistance with data gathering APPENDIX A MISSIONS COLLECTED Active Cavity Radiometer Irradiance Monitor Satellite Active Magnetospheric Particle Tracer Explorer Adeos Advanced Communications Technology Satellite Advanced Composition Explorer Alexis Amos-I AMSC-1 Anik El Anik E2 Applications Technology Satellite-I Applications Technology Satellite-2 Applications Technology Satellite-5 All MREs Lu 1.00 0.75 l 0.50l 0.25 l 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75-2.00oi v 1   Cost o N X  X~~~~~Cl Figure 16 Comparison of estimating error for three best methods 15 


Applications Technology Satellite-6 Aqua Argos Atmospheric Explorer AURA Aurora 2 Calipso Cassini Cassini Spacecraft  Huygens Probe Chandra X Ray Observatory CHIPSat Clark Clementine CloudSat COBE Columbia 5 Contour CRRES DART Dawn DBS-1 Deep Impact Flyby Spacecraft  Impactor Deep Space 1 Deep Space 2 Defense Meteorological Satellite Program-5D Defense Meteorological Satellite Program-5D3 Defense Support Program DSCS 3 FIO DSCS 3 F7 DSCS I DSCS-II DSCS-IIIA DSCS-IIIB Dynamics Explorer-I Dynamics Explorer-2 Earth Observing Satellite 1 Earth Radiation Budget Experiment EchoStar 5 Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer FAST FLTSATCOM 6 Galaxy 5 Galaxy 11 Galaxy Evolution Explorer Galileo Orbiter  Probe Gamma Ray Large Area Space Telescope GE 1 GE 5 Genesis GFO 1 Globalstar 8 Glomr GOES 3 GOES 9 GOES N GPS-1 GPS-IIR GPSMYP GRACE Gravity Probe-B GRO/Compton Gamma Ray Observatory GStar4 Hayabusa HEAO-1 HEAO-2 HEAO-3 HESSI-II High Energy Transient Explorer-II HETE HST ICESat Ikonos IMAGE IMP-H Inmarsat 3-F5 Intelsat K INTELSAT-II INTELSAT-IV International Ultraviolet Explorer Iridium James Webb Space Telescope Jason 1 JAWSAT KEPLER KOMPSAT LANDSAT1 LANDSAT-4 LANDSAT-7 Lewis Lunar Orbiter Lunar Prospector Magellan Magsat Mariner-4 Mariner-6 Mariner-8 Mariner1 0 MARISAT Mars Exploration Rover Mars Express/Beagle 2 Mars Global Surveyor Mars Observer Mars Odyssey Mars Surveyor 2001 Orbiter Mars Pathfinder  Sojourner Rovers Mars Polar Lander Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Mars Telecommunication Orbiter Mars Climate Orbiter Messenger Meteor Mid-course Space Experiment MightySat Milstar 3  Adv EHF Model-35 Morelos NATO III Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous NEAR Shoemaker New Horizons 16 


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


