Autonomic RSS: Discarding Irrelevant News   Wallace A. Pinheiro 1,3 Thiago de S. Rodrigues 1 Marcelo A. R. da Silva 1 Márcio A. N. da Silva 1 Marcelino Campos Oliveira Silva 1 Geraldo Xexéo 1,2 Jano M. de Souza 1,2  1 COPPE/UFRJ, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro 2 DCC-IM, Dept. of Computer Science, Institute of Mathematics 3 IME, Military Institute of Engineering awallace, thiagosr, mareas, marcioantelio, marcelino, xexeo, jano}@cos.ufrj.br    Abstract  Information overload is becoming a big problem in the modern world Several technologies face this problem amongst them feed aggregators Using this technology users receive a huge amount of news tha t may contain a large number of irrelevant bits of information This paper discusses this problem and provides an autonomic way to reduce it through the use of Data Killing Operators These operators use SECONDO database based on high-level Petri nets patterns  1. Introduction  As a result of new technology developments specifically the Internet in the last years people  have had to deal with an information 1  overload This condition is a result of the large volume of inform ation made available nowadays However days remain 24 hours long and our brains remain in roughly the sam e state of development as they were when the cavemen communicated by scrawling messages on stone The researchers that work in this area say that although the technology is causing this problem, it also provides ways to solve it. An interesting strategy is the use of filters. Expressive examples are the email f ilters that are used to eliminate noncritical messages avoiding an overload of undesirable information [1  These filters are directly connected to the quality  information concept as when one has a great deal of  available data quality becomes an important characteristic when deciding what information to us e or not 2   T h i s  w a y   i t  i s  i m p o r t a n t  t o  c o n s i d e r  t h a t  in a    1  Despite the subtle difference between data  the representation/notation and information  is the meaning/denotation\, in this paper, we use these te rms indistinctly scenario with so much data there are irrelevant, si milar false wrong and obsolete data elements Thus one sometimes needs to delete this data Currently the technologies that have the problems explained above are the Web feeds. In spite of the great potential in the use of RSS files its applications  are extremely limited Users include the linking to fee d files in software that reads feeds \(feed aggregator s\ and receives, from time to time, without accessing the Web page the most recent news on many issues Like the  Firefox aggregator, most of these applications that exist nowadays store and order the news by date not offering additional resources filtering considerin g the user profile keywords rules etc Because of the se deficiencies users receive a huge volume of news However, lots of them have only some or no relevanc e to them As regards this scenario this work shows a possible  solution through the use of the Autonomic Data Kill ing Framework [9   T h i s  m e t h o d  u s e s  a c t i v e  r u l e s  a n d  D a ta Killing Patterns based on high-level Petri nets tha t execute, in an autonomic way, the filtering of rele vant news to the user In this work we have used the Allowed Data AD operator previously defined by Pinheiro [9   a n d  i n  a d d i t i o n   w e  d e f i n e  t w o  n e w  D a ta Killing Patterns and their operators, Discarding Si milar Data DS and Discarding Prohibited Data DP The Feed Organizer Plug-in was also implemented as well  as the experiments to evaluate this tool In short  the information overload is reduced through plug-in execution and the rules related to the patterns The next section presents the background related to  our work In section 3 we present the Data Killing Operators Section 4 shows the architecture and Section 5 introduces the Feed Organizer Plug-in. Af ter that we discuss the plug-in results through a simp le experiment in Section 6 Finally in Section 7 we conclude the chapter and point out some future tren ds 
2009 Fifth International Conference on Autonomic and Autonomous Systems 978-0-7695-3584-5/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICAS.2009.11 148 


 2. Background  The term Autonomic Computing AC was introduced by IBM in 2001 [1   I t  c a n  b e  u n d e r s t o o d as the pursuit of self-managing computer systems i.e  systems that need little or no human interference It mainly aims at reducing the complexity of computer systems for users increasing the quality of system s reducing installation time testing cycles and maintenance; and anticipating problems The technology related to Web feeds has a great potential for the use of autonomic computing. Altho ugh users receive news without accessing the Web pages  the entire remaining job is done by them subscribi ng interesting feeds selecting relevant news deletin g irrelevant news etc Currently there are three main specifications related to the creation of feed file s: RSS 1.0 \(RDF Site Summary 1.0 2 RSS 2.0 \(Really Simple Syndication 2.0 3  and Atom 4  For the sake of simplification we only consider the RSS 2.0 feeds  Besides, we should point that this specification fo r feed files is the most used nowadays There are many aggregators available and they may be Web-based or not Specifically for this research  which aims at developing a Firefox plug-in we concentrated our efforts in adding a new extra functionality to the Firefox aggregator that comes integrated with this browser In this aggregator t he feeds are treated as entries in the set of the user s favourite pages. This plug-in is called Feed Organi zer The elimination of irrelevant news uses a combination of Data Killing Patterns developed with a tool named CPN Tools 4  5    I t  l e t s  u s  e d i t   s i m u l ate and analyze coloured hierarchical and temporized Petri nets, also known as high-level Petri nets. Be low we give some reasons to justify the use of high-lev el Petri nets with CPN Tools in pattern representation    It allows detection of infinite loops in the creation of the rules that form the patterns   It has a well-defined semantic that determine, in an unambiguous way, each pattern   It allows the representation of a truth concurrency among events starting a transition wit h multiples entering arcs and not the changing among  events that usually happens in other tools   It allows hierarchical descriptions   It executes an interactive simulation and an interesting behavioural analysis    2 http://web.resource.org/rss/1.0/spec 3 http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/rss/rss.html 4 http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4287  The pattern interface is possible in two ways through an API created for CPN Tools and through th e SECONDO database SECONDO 6  7   8   i s  a n  e x t e n d a b l e  d a t a b a s e  management system that supports especially applications that are not suitable to specific patt erns For example it allows creating or modifying existi ng algebras and it also provides a generic database management system model that can be set with implementations of a large variety of data models In this work we are going to use an operator’s algebra  where each operator in SECONDO communicates with a pattern modelled by CPN Tools. Because of that, a n operator in SECONDO can be considered an interface to a pattern. The use of the SECONDO database as an  interface offers some advantages such as   The creation of a customized algebra that represents the Data Killing Patterns \(operators   The historical storage of occurred events   The storage of discarded data for future analysis \(an essential requirement in some systems  The Data Killing operators are started every time a  client downloads an updated news files Among the existing Autonomic Data Killing Patterns 9   w e  selected the following ones for the Feed Organizer Plug-in development Allowed Data Discarding Prohibited Data and Discarding Similar Data This choice was made aiming at complexity reduction in t he first version of this tool However other patterns  will be included in the next ones  3. Data Killing Operators  In this work, an algebra containing the Data Killin g Operators was implemented using the SECONDO database The interface used in SECONDO accepts inputs with the format integer><attribute><value  where <integer> is the data identifier, <attribute is the data attribute metadata that forms the data and value is the content of this attribute This form at based on the RDF 5 format, was chosen as it allows the easy representation of any data set. Let us suppose that it was necessary to represent the following informa tion Brian 33 years old and Joe 40 years old We woul d obtain the representation 01><name><Brian>   <01><age><33 02><name><Joe>   <02><age><40 This research uses some Data Killing Operators based on Data Killing Patterns to process data inpu ts The SECONDO database allows using these patterns through a set of operators detailed as follows    5 http://www.w3.org/RDF 
149 


  Allowed Data compares the contents of one or more data attributes with the contents of a parameter All data considered not similar to the parameter is discarded   Discarding Prohibited Data compares the contents of one or more data attributes with the contents of a parameter. All data considered simila r to the parameter is discarded   Discarding Similar Data compares the contents of data attributes among themselves. All d ata but the newest one, with one or more similar attrib utes considered similar is discarded These operators are defined in the algebra and can use additional parameters, among which   Similarity function name Jaccard Coefficient, etc\ and similarity level \(0% to 100    Stemming reduces words to their stem base or root form   Stop words eliminates frequent/common words before processing data   Languages \(English, French, etc Table 1 defines the Data Killing Operators Algebra that contains the operators presented previously Table 1: Data Killing Algebra Operator  syntax and symbols in BNF S>::=query <command> \\n command>::=<pattern> <data data>::=\(<integer><metadata><text>\<data integer><metadata><text metadata>::=<attribute>::=<text pattern ad<parameters1>|dp<parameters1>|ds<parame ters2 parameters1>::=<comparedMetadata><parameters parameters2 comparedMetadata=<metadata>\<parameters  comparedMetadata>::=\(comparedMetadata=<metadata comparedMetadata=<metadata>\<specificM etadata specificMetadata metadata>=<text>\<specificMetadata metadata>=<text parameters>::=\(similarityStrategy=Jaccard|Keyword  similarityCoeficient=<integer stemming=<bool>\\(stopwords=<bool language=english|portuguese bool>::=true|false   The nonterminals symbols represented between and ">", and the symbols <integer> and <text> expre ss their own meanings. Because of that they correspond to terminals symbols in this representation It is also possible to use data inputs through an A PI similarly to the operators implemented by SECONDO The Allowed Data Pattern has been already defined by Pinheiro [9   T h e  o t h e r  t w o  p a t t e r n s  w i l l  b e  d e f ined as follows   Discarding Similar Data Pattern represents the most interesting pattern to the Feed  Organizer Plug-in as it acts over a recurring probl em in the feed area repeated or very similar information  Normally feed aggregators show this duplicated dat a to users as if it were new data Figure 1 models th e Discarding Similar Data Pattern The internal repository represents repositories that may contain  repeated or very similar data and trash represents discarded data These places allow the creation of a data flow The places in grey allow the creation of  a control flow  This flow may contain events and parameters. It consists of two rules R1 transition R1  place eventSource and place detectedSimilarData that checks the existence of data to be processed and R2  transition R2  place detectedSimilarData  and place eventResult  that effectively discards the data The double-ended arrows represent read arcs allowing t he reading of tokens without consuming them  Figure 1: Discarding Similar Data Pattern   Discarding Prohibited Data Pattern: acts as an anti-spam system Figure 2 models the Discarding  Prohibited Data Pattern Similarly to Discarding Similar Data Pattern this pattern simultaneously mo dels two views data flow and control flow consisting o f two rules The number of places and transitions a nd the structure are the same in both patterns but th e semantics of some elements is different The intern al repository may contain irrelevant data and the tras h represents the discarded data. The places in grey a llow the creation of a control flow This flow may conta in events and parameters. It is consisting of two rule s R1  transition R1  place eventSource  and place detectedProhibitedData  that checks the existence of data to be processed and R2  transition R2  place detectedprohibitedData  and place eventResult  that discards the data 
150 


 Figure 2: Discarding Prohibited Data Pattern  4. System Architecture  Figure 3 shows system architecture, where the CPN Tools corresponds to the model and execution component It is responsible for modelling and adapting the patterns and also allows active rule creation and execution with control and data flows   Figure 3: System architecture The second set of components SECONDO API JBOSS deals with communication issues The CPN ML can communicate with other programming languages \(for example, Java and C++\, using socket s This architecture has two communication possibiliti es the Java API and the SECONDO database that uses C The Data Killing Algebra was developed using this database SECONDO is also responsible for storing events, data that needs further analysis an d the rules created by users These rules involve the dat a killing operators and their respective execution sequence The RSS files are received by the JBOSS 6     6 http://www.jboss.org application server that is responsible for the RSS/API/SECONDO format converting Lastly, we have the third component that is the mai n part of this research It corresponds to the Feed Organizer Plug-in that will be depicted in details on the next sections  5. Feed Organizer Plug-in  Figure 4 shows the interface developed in this work  To use it it is necessary to install the Firefox F eed Organizer plug-in and then click on the feed organi zer button that will become visible After that a new window will open with some configuration options When the user selects the desired options and click s on the filter button the plug-in starts the process o f filtering feeds  Figure 4: Feed Organizer Plug-in The Allowed Data operator allows users to define topics of interest and similarity levels to these t opics Afterwards the Discarding Prohibited Data Operator  has fields for prohibited topics and similarity lev els related to the provided topics The last operator Discarding Similar Data has just a field to define  the desired similarity level that is used to detect sim ilar news. A future tool improvement is the use of a hyb rid approach that will be able to capture the set of keywords through user behaviour considering frequently read and deleted subjects Currently the plug-in uses the Jaccard coefficient  10  a s  a  s i m i l a r i t y  m e a s u r e  b u t  o t h e r  s t r a t e g i e s  w ill be available in future versions As a result of that new options would be added to the plug-in configuration  interface. Before the application of similarity mea sures the text may be pre-processed. It eliminates stopwo rds and uses stemming techniques based on the Porter Stemming Algorithm 11   T h i s  r e s e a r c h  a p p l i e d  t h e  Snowball Stemmer Algorithm. Execution time was not considered as the filtering process is executed in the background The tool works as follows after receiving the user  options, the filtering process is initiated, and th e plugin searches all favourite user feeds and sends them  to 
151 


the server with the selected filtering options. Aft er that the feed Organizer Parser downloads every XML file corresponding to each user feed It then assembles a single XML file containing all the information from the feeds plus the user’s filtering options Afterwards  the Feed Organizer parser carries out the parsing of th e XML file reconfiguring it for the SECONDO entry format according to chosen operators Another important function performed by the Feed Organizer Parser is the generation of the queries that will b e executed in the SECONDO based on the filtering options selected by the user These queries and the  database created are sent to SECONDO via sockets Lastly, SECONDO executes these queries in the given  database and sends the result back to the Feed Organizer Parser It executes another parsing on th e result which is in the SECONDO format in order to  convert it to a feed \(filtered\ again. This feed is sent to the plug-in \(client\, and finally, it is shown to t he user Figure 5 shows the result of this process  Figure 5: Feed Filtering Result  6. Experiment  An experiment was conducted with 18 undergraduate students aiming at analyzing the proposed tool and the results obtained, considering the Allowed Data AD and Discarding Prohibited Data DP patterns A random selection of 93 news items from 3 communication channels The New York Times, The Herald Tribune, and The Washington Post  on 3 subjects: Sports, Business, and US news Figure 6 and Figure 7 show the AD and DP characteristic curves related to the average number  of news returned by users as per similarity level betw een news and user selected keywords. The curves obey th e expected results: when the similarity level rises f or AD operator the number of news decreases DP operator  has an inverse behaviour Moreover it is possible to verify that the average number of returned results from the AD Operator are relatively low less than 16 o f returned results\, showing that users are intereste d in a small subset of the news that is provided by the We b feeds This excessive number of news may make it difficult for users to find relevant information Differently, the DP operator discards fewer numbers of news items maximum value is 12 However it is important to consider that its goal is to eliminate  prohibited subjects, allowing the rest  Figure 6 – AD Operator Characteristic curve   Figure 7 - DP Operator Characteristic curve Figure 8 shows the average precision obtained from the users’ search considering the similarity level using the DP Operator Precision 10  c a n  b e  d e f i n e d  a s  t he quantity of relevant returned answers divided by th e number of returned answers in our case given by th e quantity of relevant returned news divided by the number of returned news. It is possible to see that high precision values correspond to low similarity value s The average precision for the DP Operator reaches as its minimum value, 90%. The reason is also the u se of isolated keywords and few combinations of terms  The average precision for the AD Operator is always  100 for any similarity level It happens so becaus e this operator aims at getting relevant news accordi ng to the user’s search and in all cases it contains o nly relevant answers If the similarity level is increa sed then less relevant news are included 
152 


 Figure 8 – DP Operator Precision Figure 9 shows the average recall obtained from the  users’ search considering the similarity level usin g the AD Operator Recall 10  c a n  b e  d e f i n e d  a s  t h e  quantity of relevant returned answers divided by th e number of relevant answers. In our case this is giv en by the quantity of relevant returned news divided by t he number of relevant news Average recall for the DP Operator is always 100 for any similarity level I t happens so because this operator aims at removing irrelevant news according to the user’s search and in the most restricted case it contains all relevant answers If the similarity level is increased then more irrelevant news are included  Figure 9 – AD Operator recall  7. Future Trends and Conclusion  In this work we presented the use of data filterin g and elimination methods to get better news selectio n in a RSS client We had satisfactory results consideri ng that, in the experiments that were made, it was pos sible to filter more than 84 of the news with the AD pattern and 12 of the news considered as prohibite d were blocked with the DP pattern Besides we introduced the use of similarity to execute a filte ring on the news that exists in feeds which gave us an alternative at least interesting in relation to t he traditional AND and OR operators As future works, we hope to increase the autonomic process maturity level executed in this tool, decre asing the need for human intervention. As a consequence the tool will be able to monitor user actions selectin g relevant issues, as well as an adequate similarity level Nowadays, the tool checks relevant issues but the u ser has to provide a set of relevant words and the simi larity level This project includes the construction of a RSS server and a data structure that will make it possi ble to carry on rules that will be better understood in th e client  8. References  1  P. Krill, “Overcoming Information Overload InfoWorld Media Group  Janeiro 2000 Available at http://www.infoworld.com/articles/ca/xml/00/01/10/0 00110c aoverload.html 2  M. Burgess; W. Grey, N. Fiddian, “Quality Measures and the Information Consumer Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Information Quality 2004 3  J O Kephart D M Chess The Vision of Autonomi c Computing IEEE Computer Society  Vol 36 Issue 1 pp 41--50 Los Alamitos CA USA IEEE Computer Societ y Press. ISBN: 0018-9162. 2003 4  A V Ratzer et al CPN Tools for Editing Simulat ing and Analysing Coloured Petri Nets Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on the Application and The ory of Petri Nets Eindhoven, The Netherlands, Spring. 2003 5  K Jensen L.M Kristensen L Wells Coloured Pet ri Nets and CPN Tools for Modelling and Validation of Concurrent Systems In International Journal on Software Tools for Technology Transfer \(STTT 2007 6  R.H Güting et al SECONDO An Extensible DBMS Platform for Research Prototyping and Teaching 21st Intl Conf on Data Engineering  ICDE Tokyo Japan 2005 1115-1116 7  R.H Güting et al SECONDO An Extensible DBMS Architecture and Prototype Fernuniversität Hagen Informatik-Report 313 March 2004 8  R.H Güting et al SECONDO User Manual Fernuniversität Hagen, Germany, September 2007 9  W A Pinheiro G Xexéo J Souza Autonomic Patterns Modelling Data Killing Patterns using Hig h-Level Petri Nets Fourth International Conference on Autonomic and Autonomous Systems IEEE Computer Society, 2008 10  R. Baeza-Yates, B. Ribeiro-Neto Modern Information Retrieval Addison-Wesley, 1999 11  M Porter The Porter Stemming Algorithm Cambridge University, United Kingdom, 2006. Availab le at http://tartarus.org/~martin/PorterStemmer  
153 


business and IT training. The first two are for example practiced through management and project meetings and strategic planning and budgeting processes. The last one is practiced in terms of joint awareness/training related to deployed IT and area of application. A good example is the case of IFMIS among IT and accountants where general knowledge in accounts and IT are provided, followed by the actual use or management of the system. Although the Ministry has a long way to go for effective IT Governance, the mechanisms in place have assisted the Ministry in ensuring that IT contributes to the organizational goals  4.4. A Summary on IT Governance Practices The practice on IT Governance mechanisms across the public sector in the studied organizations spanning from structure, processes to relational mechanisms pointed out earlier in each individual case, are summarized \(Table 2\d discussed in the perspective of the commonality or differences Table 2 Summary of IT governance structures, processes and relational mechanisms in the studied organizations  Practice Type Practices across studied organizations i\tructures Organizational  structure of IT function All are headed by directors, report directly to CEO and are part of the executive management and directors attend the board where it applies How is IT instituted in the organization They are mostly centralized and in some cases with staff distributed to work directly in a user department or branch Committees There are no IT steering Committees with exception of one of them At the level of the major projects generally there are committees established to oversee implementation Also in some organizations there are several other committees to handle cutting-across issues like security change controls and website content ii\cesses Strategic IS Planning Not directly applied  However, generally there are elements of its application in preparing corporate/IT strategic plans   SWOT Analysis Mostly applied across studied organizations in different magnitudes lower in corporate strategic plans that include IT and highly in the IT strategic plan currently in one organization Balanced scorecard Generally not applied. However one of the organizations started to practice it from the corporate strategic plan down to departments and individuals ROI calculation and measurements Not applied per se. However, major IT investment needs non-financial and some financial benefits justifications like the case of HCMIS project cited earlier COBIT or related IT Governance frameworks Not applied. However, one organization has started implementing some aspects of ITIL and indirectly some areas of COBIT Service Level Agreements SLAs Hardly applied internally. However, it is mostly applied for external service providers as part of the contracts Activity Based Costing Budgeting ABC Applied in most of them based on Medium-Term Expenditure Framework MTEF\ government wide tool for planning activities, resources, and associated performance iii\lational Mechanisms Shared understanding of business/IT goals It is widely practiced mostly through normal management mechanisms like management meetings and special IT project/programmes-based committees Shared learning and dialogue Somehow practiced through meetings workshops and training on issues pertaining to business and IT in relation with IS development and use Informal meetings between business and IT management It is widely practiced at different levels for example in clarifying some IT/Business issues especially when a new IT enabled project is being initiated or implemented Crossfunctional business/IT training It is widely practiced through workshop and training on matters of interest among IT and business people Performance Partnership rewards and incentives It is not systematically practiced However, occasionally some people are rewarded due to outstanding performance on innovative solutions Crossfunctional business/IT job rotation co-location Not widely practiced. However, in one of the cases, co-location across the units and zones/branches has been applied Virtual meeting" for business and IT people e.g Intranet use Not practiced. Although there is already Intranet in many of these organizations it has not been widely used due to cultural and enforcement issues Knowledge management Not widely practiced in terms of having the knowledge base of general or specific areas Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


The analysis of these mechanisms indicates that there are some strengths and weaknesses as far as the practices for each category, are concerned.  Generally the studied organizations indicate to have strength in supportive IT organization structure with exception of not having IT strategy and steering committees in most of them. The major weaknesses seem to be on the processes where best practices and standards like Strategic Information Systems Planning, IT Management/Governance & performance management frameworks are rarely applied and this could be detrimental to the consistency and enforcement in deployment, use and management of IT. Also while there is some strength in relational mechanisms practices like shared understanding of business/IT goals and Informal meetings between business and IT management across the studied environment, there are also weaknesses in many of these mechanisms including knowledge management, virtual meeting points and performance/partnership rewards and incentives. It is also worth to note that improvement on these practices is continuously being done, however not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal progress in governance of IT to further increase IT contribution to achieve corporate goals Looking at these results in the international context we see that they are in contrast with related studies in the developed world, like is the case of six organizations in Belgium [9   w h i c h i n d i c a t e d t h a t  most of them had specific IT Governance projects and applied best practices and standards  like COBIT, ITIL PRINCE2 and Balance Scorecard Taking into account the fact that one of the key determinants of the effective IT Governance in the organization, apart from constitution of IT structure, is where the IT decision-making authority is located in the organization l s o  tak i n g i n to accou n t th e  practices in place in relation to IT Governance key decisions in terms of who provides input on one hand and decides on the other, the findings across the studied organizations indicate that generally both are distributed across the organization as indicated in Fig 5. Specifically, however, the notable pattern indicates that IT provides most of the inputs throughout the decisions except on the Business application needs where inputs are equally coming from business related groups. The decisions indicate a different trend as are mostly made by executive management comprising IT and Business people, which if done well is likely to increase alignment of IT and business and smooth implementation of IT applications and its us Looking at related studies elsewhere and taking the case of MIT-CISR work and specifically on the public  iou s th a t t h ere are si m i larities i n t h e  pattern especially on decisions where federal dominates in both cases. However, differences appear in decisions related to IT architecture and infrastructure, done by IT Monarchy while in our case it is done by the same Federal. Notably, when it comes to the input, the difference seems to be substantial due to the fact that while IT monarchy dominates most of the inputs in the compared studies, our related study environment indicates to be dominated by Federal Looking at the differences in both cases we can see that the mature IT Governance practices especially on structures might be one of the determinants of the differences and required governance effectiveness    5. Discussion: Problems and consequences Use of ICT in the studied environment is still a relatively new culture and this has contributed to the problems encount  T h es e proble m s are  discussed here based on the representative case studies seen earlier. Also this section indicates the consequences in order that the implications for not taking necessary actions are known, so that this could be taken as motivation for change or further research  5.1. Problems As it was earlier indicated, one vital way of looking at IT Governance related problems in an organization is its key focus areas o applied by oth e r earlier  studies T h es e areas i.e. s t rateg ic al ignm ent, v a l u e  delivery, risk management, resource management and Fi g ure 5 The IT Governance key decisions patterns in the studied organizations  1 5 No. Of  Cases Occurence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


performance management, are also applied here to look into the problems as were embedded in the questionnaires used in the survey. These problems are ranked according to the interviewees perspective on their seriousness in the sector \(Table 3\d respective discussion is done as per IT Governance focus areas Also the highlight is provided taking into account the summary and discussion on the current practices unveiled in the earlier section  5.1.1. Strategic Alignment This focuses on ensuring the linkage of business and IT plans; defining maintaining and validating the IT value proposition and aligning IT operations with enterprise operations  ook i n g acros s t h e s t u d i e d org an i z a t i ons i t i s  clear that there is no specific IT strategic plan in most of them that could tie the business and IT activities more holistically and effectively. This, among others leads to the biggest problem, i.e. lack of ownership by business people in IT-enabled projects \(Table 3\d in some cases organizations being forced to allocate IT personnel to do what business people should be doing rather than supporting them The aspect of inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures is another problem that is also consistent across most of them. It hampers consistency in ICT usage and management, which is yet another serious problem. Lack of IT Governance awareness and certainly some guidelines are also seen as problem This is also linked with HR related problems on lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability that sometimes, among others, leads to the ad-hoc practices. While it appears that there are mechanisms to communicate ICT plans and goals e.g. through meetings and workshops, inadequate enforcement mechanisms still hamper the widespread use of ICT and promised benefits. An example is Intranet which seems to be in place in many organizations and can increase IT/Business partnershi d in tern a l  efficiency but it is still not being used widely enough  5.1.2. Value delivery  is one of the IT Governance outcomes and is about value proposition throughout the delivery cycle, ensuring that IT delivers the promised benefits against the strategy or plans t h i s  regard it was found out that despite the high cost of IT there is still lower return or business value. This happens due to the mentioned earlier non-optimal use missing synergies, and inadequate facilitation and enforcement for a widespread use. One of the interviewees claimed that some offices were still using computers merely as fast typewriters  5.1.3. Risk Management Risk management requires awareness by senior and operational officers and embedding of risk management responsibilities in the Table 3 Ranked problems seriousness as per survey in the studied organizations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


organization [10  T h e sur v e y i n d i c a t e s t h a t ge ne r a l l y there is still a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services which is also consistent with earlier studies on IT security matters in the environmen w e v e r, f o r th e v e r y critical an d  country wide systems like Integrated Financial MIS IFMIS\at manages all government expenditures risk management is relatively higher and sometimes exaggerated. The latter is due to the fact that it has a separate physical network within the ministry concerned and across some government offices   5.1.4. Resource Management which ensures optimal investment and the proper management of critical IT resources  y et a n oth e r problem atic area i n t h e  sector. The issue of attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel is still a nightmare to solve, despite some efforts continually made Availability of essential budget for the required IT resources is yet another problem especially for low level staff, in regions and branches. Together with these is the case of fragmented IT initiatives with duplication of efforts and a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale. For example one could find heavy duty printers or photocopiers with capacity to serve many employees or offices only serving a single person or office, thus mostly staying idle. Moreover, there are still some fragmented business applications in the studied organizations  5.1.5. Performance Management that is important for tracking and monitoring strategy and plans implementation and benefits accrued and measured beyond the conventional accounting y et an ot h e r  problematic area. Although there is progress in this direction like the recently use of the balanced scorecard in one of the organizations or metrics embedded in the ministerial strategic plans, the environment generally poses some weaknesses. This again came out strongly in the survey \(Table 3 Others include inadequate follow-up and enforcement on the matters discussed in the IT related committees and meetings. This also indicates that putting IT structures in place is not enough; one should go beyond to implement necessary processes and relational mechanisms to ensure the returns on investme  As indicated earlier, Table 3 presents the ranked problems in the public sector. These results are also comparable to other related studies like those produced by the IT Governance Institut 2 5] an d th e MI T CISR study on 256 organizations worldw ile  there are differences among them like lack of ownership of IT projects, relatively lower acceptance of new IT applications, fragmented IT initiatives and inadequate enforcement mechanisms that hamper the optimal use of the IT resources, there are also similarities. These include staff matters but in this case going further to the staff shortage and inadequate IT skills and competency. Others are weak measurement of IT performance and value to the business, high cost of IT but low ROI and security issues  5.2. Consequences Several studies have indicated possible consequences for not having effective IT Governance in place, in the cases related to public sector in a developing country  22  Bas e d on th es e cas es an d a preli m i n a r y  survey in the public sector, possible consequences were investigated and bundled together as shown in Fig. 6. According to the study results there are serious consequences in the sector that can be detrimental to the effort towards effective IT Governance, and hence improvement in the public service delivery. The most serious problem noted is the difficulty involved in holding individuals accountable for their results Others are ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations, which are obviously outcomes of not having a good IT governance in place where people finds their own solutions, and sometimes take this loophole to misuse the IT resources      Fi g ure 6 Ranked consequences as a result of the survey in the studied organizations  85 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Additionally, there are traditional consequences like IT investment losses, and given the magnitude of systems put in place in these kinds of organizations, they encounter the loss of a lot of money and effort when a project fails to deliver its promises Similarly, there are reputation damages which are also a nasty consequence to such large organizations for example, at a revenue authority if the system that deals with customs clearance or tax payments have some problems and there is no adequate governance that ensures the timely recovery or alternative solution this will be in the news the following day. Knowing the problems and associated consequences will assist the IT decision makers in prioritizing activities and solutions for effective IT governance and consequently the improvement in the public service delivery  6. Conclusions In this paper, based on the analysis of five public organizations, we have described IT Governance current practices, problems encountered and the consequences in the public sector in a developing country. The IT Governance mechanisms, together with key focus and decision areas provided the means for a thorough investigation into the studied environment. The combination of these approaches was found to be useful in uncovering practices of interest in this environment, where on one hand IT resources are scarce and its development and management are relatively less established and on the other hand the use of ICT in providing public services is gaining momentum and several efforts are being made to carry it out successfully. The analysis of IT Governance practices in the studied organizations indicate diverse practices in relation to structures processes and relational mechanisms with notable weakness in the processes where, in contrast with developed world, best practices are rarely applied in most of them It was also noted that improvement on these practices are being done continually, not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal improvement to increase the IT contribution to the organizational goals. The analysis revealed a number of problems and their consequences in the organizations. The problems we found are categorized in the IT Governance key focus areas, and are including the lack of a specific IT strategic plan in most of them; lack of business people ownership in ITenabled projects; inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures; lack of IT Governance awareness and guidelines; inadequate follow-up and enforcement mechanisms; and lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability. Others problems found are a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services; attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel; inadequate budget for required IT resources; fragmented IT initiatives with a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale; high cost of IT with lower business value; and weak measures of IT performance and value to business In addition, to the problems and challenges in the public sector, several consequences that can be detrimental to the efforts towards effective IT Governance and hence improvements in the public service delivery were also revealed. The most common ones include the difficulty of holding individuals accountable for their results; ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations; and traditional consequences like IT investment losses and damage to the reputation of the organization in question  References  T GI En terpris e Value: Gov e rn a n ce of IT Investments, The Val IT Framework, 2006. Retrieved from  www.itgi.org   P e terson R. R., In teg r ation Strateg ie s an d T a ctics for IT Governance, In W. Van Grembergen \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   arav adi C  S  D i g i tal repos itories  f o r egovernment, E-Government, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2005 pp.205-218   Gre m berg e n W., De Haes S Gulden tops   E. Structures, processes and relational mechanisms for IT governance. In Van Grembergen W. \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   e ill, P    Ross, J  W  IT Gov e rn an ce Ho w T op Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results, Harvard Business School Press, 2004   T a n zan ia Nation al IC T  P o licy  A v ai lable at  www.tanzania.go.tz/pdf/ictpolicy.pdf, 2003. Last accessed, June 2008   dou V  eG o v e rnm ent for D e v e l opi n g  C oun t r i e s  Opportunities and Challenges. The Electronic Journal on IS in Developing Countries \(EJISDC\, 2004  8  B a ka r i  J  B  A ho l i s t i c  A p p r o a c h fo r M a na gi ng I C T  Security in Non-Commercial Organizations: A case in a developing country, Doctoral Thesis, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


 Grem berg e n W  De Haes S. I m ple m e n ti ng Information Technology Governance: Models Practices and Cases. IGI Publishing, 2008   T G I. Boa rd b r ief i ng on  IT g o v e rn an ce \(2 nd ed 2003.  Retrieved from www.itgi.org on May 2008   T R A  A bout T a n zan ia Rev e nu e Au t h orit y  T R A   and related statistics in the case study, www.tra.go.tz 2008. Last accessed May 2008   MS D. A bou t Medical S t ores Departm e n t MS D   and related statistics in the case study, www.msd.or.tz 2008. Last accessed, May 2008   PMOR AL G A bou t Prim e Minis t er s Office Regional Authority and Local Government \(PMORALG\d related statistics in the case study www.pmoralg.go.tz, 2008, Last accessed May 2008   O P SM. A bou t P r eside n t O f f i ce, P u blic Services  Management \(PO-PSM\d related statistics in the case study, www.utumishi.go.tz, 2008. Accessed 2008   o F E A 2008 A bou t  Mi n i s t r y of Fi n a n c e an d  Economic Affairs \(MoFEA\d related statistics in the case study, www.mof.go.tz. Last accessed May 2008   ers, Mich ae l D. "Qu alitat iv e Researc h i n  Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 2 1997, pp. 241-242    R   C a s e  S t u d y res e arch des i g n an d m e t h ods   third edition. Sage Publications, 2003   Peters on R  R  C r afting I T Gov e rn an ce f o r toda y s turbulent environment, Information Systems Management, Vol. 21 No.4, 2004, pp.7-21  19 N f uka E  N   R u s u  L  M a na ge me n t o f I T enabled change in a public organization in Tanzania Int. J. Information Systems and Change Management Vol.2, No.4, 2007, pp. 334-349, Inderscience Publishers  20 O G C B e s t M a n a g e m e n t P r a c t i c e i n I T S e r v i c e  Management \(ITIL\ and Project Management PRINCE2\008, retrieved from www.bestmanagement-practice.com on August, 2008   R Norton D T h e balan ced s c orecard Measures that drive performance. Harvard Business Review, 1992, 70\(1\71-79   a y a y a S  G  A  s t u d y  of t h e poten tia l u s a g e o f  ICT \(E-government\ in improving efficiency and effectiveness of executive functions of the government including delivery of Public Services Case of Tanzania. A dissertation for degree of MEM at UDSM, 2003   u pan g k a t, S  H R a hm a t B S e m b iring J. IT  Governance for Developing Countries. School of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, Institute of Technology Bandung. Engage Indonesia, 2006   T GI PWC  IT Gov e rn an ce Gl obal St at us Report, 2006. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   T G I  PWC  I T Go v e rn a n ce Global S t at us Report, 2008. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   i bbers P.M.A P e ters o n  R  R P a rk er, M.M Designing IT governance processes: Diagnosing contemporary practices and competing theories Proceedings of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS   e, R  19 95  T h e art of cas e res e arch  Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


  13  Use of Web Technologies The web development effort involved a long learning curve for some of the RDE Upgrade development team HTML We used HyperText Markup Language \(HTML\o layout the web framework and page structures AJAX/JSON  The AJAX \(asynchronous JavaScri pt and XML\tern was introduced to support a responsive web GUI.  An implementation of JSON \(JavaScript Object Notation provides the data service inte rface from the web client to a tomcat-maintained servlet. We have run into very few issues with this technology 10 11 12  CSS Cascading Style Sheets \(CSS\provide a straightforward way to manage web page styles. The language is well supported through the open-source FireBug Edito 14  JavaScript We used JavaScript to provide a rich interactive web interface, however our experien ce with JavaScript was not entirely favorable.   The Java Script \(JS approach to APIs including widgets led to our implementing more JS code than we might otherwise have.  We found the 223typeless\224 language occasionally caused confusion.  We did find that it could be \223made to provide\224 a rich web interface though probably a heavier interface than it needs to be.  One real positive for JS is the huge volume of sample code available on the Internet, saving time when dealing with the many implementation problems that spring up JasperReport  We used a toolkit called JasperReport to build a database report we could execute from our web interface.  A JasperReport is edited using the iReport tool. When the report is opened, the JasperSoft library is executed which updates each field from the database and presents the updated report The next section describes some of the \223analysis views\224 that can be generated from data in the RDE store 5  R ELAY A CCOUNTABILITY A NALYSIS  From the start of the Phoenix mission through the current day the RDE tool has been us ed primarily to extract pass statistics for reporting.  The key primary tracked statistic is the total volume of data delivered by each relay spacecraft Typically the \223Export Volumes\224 web view is used for a 223quick\224 export of these data, though the \223General Query\224 view can also be used for this purpose.  Raw tabular data are exported in Comma Separated Value \(CSV\at and then normally imported into an Excel spreadsheet for charting Figure 6 shows the total volume over time from the start of Phoenix mission \(Sol 0\o Sol 120, about a month past the end of prime mission Cumulative Return Link Data Volume 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 0 30 60 90 120 Sol MRO Cumulative Ret Fill DV MRO Cumulative Ret PHX DV ODY Cumulative Ret Fill DV ODY Cumulative Ret PHX DV   Figure 6 \226 Cumulative Return Link Volume Figure 7 shows the same data values, but charted to show the total data volume transmitted per Sol  Return Link Data Volume by Sol PHX Lander Data + Fill Data 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 0 30 60 90 120 Sol ODY Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits MRO Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits  Figure 7 \226 Data Volume By Sol  On Figure 6 and Figure 7, the Phoenix Data Volume \(DV shown represents actual telemetry data and science product delivered.  The Fill DV on both figures represents \223fill\224 frames that are transmitted when a relay link is open but no actual lander data is available to transmit.  This chart shows that the Odyssey mission has carried the most part of 


  14 Phoenix relay data over MRO.  The low MRO volumes at the very early end of the chart are due to early MRO communications issues with Phoenix that were not resolved until later in the mission.  The volume discrepancies are clearly visible from both charts Figure 8 shows the data volumes for the 128K overflights as a function of Mars LMST \(Local Mean Solar Time 128 kbps Return Link Data Rate 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 0:00:00 6:00:00 12:00:00 18:00:00 0:00:00 Local Mean Solar Time ODY MRO PHX Re q uirement:  30 Mb p ass  Figure 8 \226 Data Volume By Sol  Figure 9 shows a comparison of data volume predicts vs pass performance values  Figure 9 \226 Volume Predicts vs. Performance  6  C ONCLUSIONS  For ASC, the next step is to achieve a level of database independence.  We look to take advantage of emerging best practices technologies and patterns \(e.g. Hibernate  t o  upgrade our core server function to database independence and our Agent Framework to take advantage of a workflow execution function or language such as the Business Process execution Language \(BPEL  RDE is planned for update with the Mars Science Laboratory \(MSL\ission.  This will include any required updates to the planning input s \(MSL will utilize a wider range of relay parameters, including higher data rates multiple frequency channels and possibly new modulation and coding schemes and adaptive data rate functionality and a likely major change in the handling of predicts One significant additional RDE improvement proposed is to develop a web-based tactical interface supporting pass utilization requests and tacti cal updates.  Currently, all tactical relay coordination is accomplished via email and phone.  This process could be greatly improved with the upgrade to of a web-based system.  However, if adopted this upgrade would have a large impact on the current operational tactical process and thus must be carefully engineered across a broad user base  Overall we found we were able to accomplish our primary relay accountability goals using our chosen architecture The ASC server held up as a useful way to manage objectrelational transactions over a distributed network, and our event-driven client mechan isms were assembled in a straightforward manner using the existing ASC Agent Framework as well as the DOM message reactor function Our ability to accomplish this broad integration at a consistently low level of funding tells us that these technologies and patterns are worth pursuing as part of further accountability prototype pilot, and deployment activities A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The work described in this paper was conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Californi a Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  The authors wish to further acknowledge other individuals who made key contributions to research and development including Marti DeMore, Lloyd DeForrest, Derek Kiang Ashley Shamilian, Lori Nakamura, Mark Palm, Priscilla Parrish and Mike Tankenson  


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


