Aligning CIO Characteristics to Business Strategy: An Empirical Investigation  Yan Li Department of Information Systems and Decision Science ESSEC Business School, France 33 1 34 43 39 82 liyan@essec.fr  Chuan Hoo Tan Department of Information Systems City University of Hong Kong 825 2788 9720 ch.tan@cityu.edu.hk   Abstract  This paper examines the match between Chief Information Officer \(CIO\acteristics and the 
organizationês business strategy and how this match will influence the impact of IS on the organizationês business performance. Based on the study of typologies of business strategy, alignment between IS and business strategy and upper echelon theory, a conceptual model is proposed. Survey data from 81 CIOs/IS managers is collected to empirically test the model. The results indicat e that a match between business strategy and CIOs of certain repertoires of competencies, experiences and personalities could lead to better organizational performance Specifically, the impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly 
better than it is in misaligned ones     1. Introduction Consider this question: If you are hiring a Chief Information Officer \(CIO\or the organization, who do you look for? This research seeks to answer this question In a diverse, ever-changing marketplace organizations are constantly seeking to harness technology to improve their core competency and gain competitive advantage. Explicitly, knowing how to apply Information Systems \(IS\ an appropriate and timely way and in harmony with business 
strategies, goals, and needs could bring the organization to steps closer to business succes  other words, aligning IS strategy to business strategy becomes a critical issue in most organizations Indeed, there is an increasing amount of research and understanding on the linkages between business and IS strategies e role  of partn e rs h i ps bet w ee n IS and business manageme d th e n eed to understand the transformation of business strategies resulting from the competitive use of The person in an organization who knows 
technology and business sufficiently well is the CIO CIOs wield the greatest organizational power to influence the exploitation of IS in their organizations since they have the best knowledge of the technology progression and characteristics. Furthermore, they are the key strategic decision makers who plan and direct the organization s IS strategy and its implementation 7 In our knowledge, prior researchers \(e.g., Thomas and Ramaswamy  d to f o cu s on t h e m a tc h between organization s top managers \(e.g., Chief 
Executive Officer \(CEO\and the organization s business strategy and indicate a fit or match  between these two will yield better organizational performance. However, given the increasingly important role played by the CIO in shaping organization s IS strategy d th e n e ed to alig n IS  with business strategy, there is little research done about how CIO will match the organization s business strategy and whether this match will influence the impact of IS on the organization 
s business performance. This study strives to fill this gap in the extant literature. Specifically, we seek to answer: what type of CIO characteristics will be best aligned with an organization s business strategy Drawing on the study of alignment between IS and business strategy pper ech elon th eor y   e propos e a con ceptu a l  m odel to ex a m i n e t h e alignment between CIO characteristics and the organization s business strategy and to measure whether this alignment will influence the impact of 
IS on the organization s business performance. This model is empirically tested with survey data from 81 CIOs/IS managers. The results indicate that different business strategies will match with CIOs with different repertoires of competencies, experiences and personalities. The impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly better than it is in misaligned ones  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


2. Conceptual Model and Hypotheses Notwithstanding the growing research in strategic leadersh th e cau sal relation s h i p bet w ee n managers and strategy is still a source of considerable debate. Particularly, whether managers determine strategies or whether established strategic position impacts the recruitment and promotion decisions of upper echelon executives is often a question pondering researchers till now e  absence of consensus on the causal forces, it is clear that the match, fit or alignment between managers and strategic direction is crucial to success Figure 1 depicts the conceptual model that examines the fit between CIO characteristics and business strategies and the effects of this fit on the impact of IS on the organization s business performance. In the following sub sections, the alignment between business and IS strategy will be discussed first followed by the reasoning for matching CIO characteristics to business strategy  Figure 1. Conceptual Model  2.1. Business Strategy and Its Alignment with IT/IS Strategy In the realm of strategic management theory, the central role of managerial influence is best reflected in typologies of strategic orientation e of  th e  most well-established business strategy typologies is Miles and Snow  ree v i able strate g i c t y pe s  which include Prospector, Defender and Analyzer Based on the summary of Sabherwal and Chan there are good reasons to believe that different IS strategies would be appropriate for the three business strategies T h es e th re e s t rateg ie s diff er in information management sophistication [14 in th e  level of IT investme n d in t h eir i n f l u e n ce on the attributes of formal control system  According to Miles and Snow os pect ors  are organizations whose prime capability is that of finding and exploring new product and market opportunities. For a Prospector, maintaining a reputation as an innovator in product and market development may be as important as \(in some cases even more important than\igh profitability. They invest heavily in product research and development R&D\nd environmental scanning, which require high level of technological flexibility. However, the emphasis on innovativeness and flexibility often leads to a lack of controls and low operational efficiency. In the research of the alignment between IS strategy with Prospector strategy, Sabherwal and Chan [4 g g est t h at IS for flexibility strategy focusing on flexibility especially in market information systems and strategic decision support systems, will be suitable for Prospectors In contrast, Defenders stress on operational efficiency and economics of scale. They seal off a stable and a narrow niche in the total potential market by producing only a limited set of products directed at this segment of the mark n i f i ca n t  attention from the Defenders is devoted to controlling operating cost, thus their technology choices favor inflexible but cost-efficient methods. Furthermore they do not tend to search outside their domain for new opportunities, and rarely make major adjustment in their technology th eir res earch a n d development efforts are related to process improvement instead of product innovation. The IS strategy that is aligned with Defenders is IS for efficiency strategy which emphasizes on internal and inter-organizational efficiencies in organizational information systems rather than on flexibility Between the two extremes of Prospector and Defender, there is a third type of organization that is called Analyz It  is a com b in at ion of Prospector and Defender, which seeks to simultaneously minimize risk while maximizing opportunities for growth k e epi n g t h i s pos tu re  Analyzers adopt dual core technologies that have both stable and flexible components. Unlike Defenders, they do not eschew changes; however they will not initiate changes either, but follow the Prospectors for changes instead. According to Sabherwal and Chan  IS for comprehensiveness strategy enables comprehensive decisions and quick responses through knowledge of other organizations, will be suitable for Analyzers In summary, different business strategies require different IS strategies. Prospectors desire for flexibility and innovation in their IS strategy Defenders emphasize on cost containment and stability, and Analyzers endeavor to simultaneously achieve both. Following the argument of Thomas and Ramaswamy  s e of its hy brid n a t u re, th e   CIO characteristics  Age H1a  Tenure H1b  Educational Level H1c  Openness H1d  Extraversio n   H1e   Business Strategy  Prospector Defender Impact of IS on Organization s Business Performance H1 H2  IS Strategy  IS for flexibility IS for efficiency   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


strategic and managerial attributes of Analyzers are not as clear as those of the Prospectors and Defenders. The present study, thus, focuses on the two extreme types Prospector and Defender and it is believed that this is a necessary first step toward a fuller understanding of the attributes of Analyzers in future research 2.2. Alignment between CIO Characteristics and Business Strategy From the strategy decides manager perspective by contending that organizations pursuing different strategies would be led by managers with different characteristics, Miles and Snow n o w l ed g e  the necessity of matching managers to strategy Given the distinct orientations of Prospectors and Defenders, they proposed that the managers of these organizations would have different repertoires of skills and competencies  From the manager decides strategy perspective upper echelon theory arg u e s t h at m a n a g e r s  matter in shaping an organization s strategic choices because strategic choices do not lend themselves to calculable solutions and include a large behavioral component. They reflect, to a large extent, the values principles and preferences of decision makers. When confronted with a complex and incomprehensible situation, a decision maker would typically bring his cognitive bases and values to bear on the situation and formulate an eventual perception and response to the situation. Strategic choices are thus an outcome of selective perceptions and interpretations based on the values and cognitive thoughts of managers Reconciling these two perspectives, we propose the examination of a match between manager and strategy instead of looking into the causal relationship between these two. Based on the discussion of business-IS strategy alignment in the previous section, it can be inferred that Prospectors and Defenders have distinctively different requirement on IS strategy, one focusing on IS for flexibility the other on IS for efficiency Thus they will also expect to have CIOs with different characteristics to come up with different, but appropriate IS strategy to align with the organization s business strategy H1 CIOs of Prospectors and Defenders will have distinctively different profiles of demographic and personality characteristics 2.2.1. Alignment between CIO Characteristics and Business Strategy Upper echelon theory suggests that observable managerial characteristics such as age, tenure educational level could manifest the givens that a manager brings to a strategic situation. Similarly Miles and Snow u gg e s t th at Pros pectors an d  Defenders should be led by CEOs with different age tenure and educational level. In light of this, these three demographic characteristics are chosen as our focus of study Age As previously discussed, the IS strategy for Prospector needs to be flexible and innovative Prospectors, then, need to identify CIOs who can formulate and implement such IS strategy to align with the business needs. Upper echelon theory implies younger CIOs are more inclined to pursue innovative and risky IS strategies then older CIOs Several studies have attempted to provide explanations for such a relationship. First, according to learning theory \(e.g., Chown 1960\ CIOs may have greater difficulty grasping new ideas and learning new behaviors. Cognitive abilities seem to diminish with age, including learning ability reasoning and memory e n ce, older C I Os  m a y have less of the physical and mental stamina needed to exploit IS for innovativeness and flexibility Second, younger CIOs are more likely to have received their education more recently than older CIOs, thus, their technical knowledge should be superior and more current Third, older CIOs may be at a point of their lives where financial security and career security are most important. Their spending traits and expectations about retirement income are establishe In deed  Barker and Mueller 19 a r gue t h a t i nno va t i o n i s r i sk y  as the cost is realized immediately \(i.e., fund is taken away from current profitability\ut any pay-off tends to occur in the long term. Given that older CIOs may have fewer years before retirement, the pay-off from IT investment may not be realized on time to translate into higher salary and bonuses for them Thus, they tend to formulate IS strategy that is stable and cost efficient, which matches the needs of Defenders. In contrast, because their career and financial security concerns have a broader time horizon, younger CIOs can be more risk-seeking in adopting more innovative and flexible IS strategy which will align with the Prospectors business requirement. Thus, we hypothesize H1a CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to be younger than CIOs of Defenders Tenure Upper echelon theory also implies that years of inside service by CIOs are negatively related to strategic choice involving new changes. This is because as the years of tenure increase, the CIOs may have more psychological commitment to the organizational status qu d becom e  m o re  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


strongly committed to implementing their own paradigms of how the IS strategy should be run   Furthermore, long tenure may result in insulation and a narrowing of the CIO s perspectiv ongtenured CIOs may also have developed inertia in their environmental scanning activities, reducing the intensity and scope of their scanning activities. They may also refrain from making changes and investment in keeping the IS strategy innovative and flexible over time [23 in ste a d  th e y  m a y p r e f er to  emphasize stability and efficiency, which suits the Defenders needs for IS strategy H1b CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to have shorter tenure in the organization than CIOs of Defenders Educational level Inferring from upper echelon theory w e  m a y propos e th at t h e a m o u n t s o f  formal education CIOs have had are positively associated with innovativeness and flexibility in IS strategy in organizations. Prior studies \(e.g Kimberly and Evanisko 24 als o in dicate th at h i gh er levels of education are associated with a person s ability to generate and implement creative solutions to complex problems. This ability may explain why people who are more educated have higher tendency to possess more flexible and receptive attitude toward innovation T h e as s o ciation bet w een edu cat ion a l  level and both cognitive ability and attitudes toward innovation may suggest that CIOs with a higher educational level are more likely to adopt IS strategies that are innovative and flexible features consistent with Prospectors needs for IS strategy. In contrast, less educated CIOs are associated with more conservative, risk-averse IS strategies features consistent with the Defenders needs for IS strategy  e th u s  hy pot h e s i ze  H1c CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to have higher level of education than CIOs of Defenders 2.2.2. Personality Traits of CIO and Business Strategy Previous studies examining the relationship between the executive s personality characteristics and the organization s strategy often focus on traits such as need for achievement, locus of control flexibility, risk-taking propensity, dogmatism persuasiveness, and tolerance of ambiguity [25, 26  T h e pers on alit y trait s exa m i n ed in t h es e papers do not follow a specific taxonomy; hence, they do not completely encompass all the attributes that could potentially drive an organization s strategy. In addition, there is some conceptual overlap among several attributes discussed in the papers [2 Hen ce in this paper, we adopt the Big Five taxonomy to analyze the personality traits of a CIO Costa and McCrae 30 arg u e th at it is p o ssib l e to  generalize to the full range of personality traits only if a comprehensive taxonomy of personality is systematically examined. Several lines of evidence suggest that the Big Five model provides such taxonomy h is tax onom y i s als o cu rren t l y  considered the most valuable in personality research  m o stl y beca u s e of th e replicabilit y of th e f i v e  factor structure across different theoretical frameworks, using different assessment approaches including questionnaires and lexical data, in different cultures, employing different languages, and using ratings from different sources  The first dimension, extraversion, consists of sociability, positive emotionality, ambition and excitement-seeking. The second dimension is neuroticism. A person who is high in neuroticism tends to exhibit a high level of insecurity, is suspicious and low in self-confidence. The third dimension is agreeableness, which is the trait of simply being easier to get along with. The forth dimension is conscientiousness, which characterizes a person who is responsible, dependable, persistent and oriented toward work. The last dimension is openness, which describes a person who is imaginative, creative, curious, unconventional broad-minded, and adventurous r pres e n t  focus will be on openness and extraversion which are perceived to be most relevant in strategic formation behavi  Openness Previous empirical studies show a strong relationship between openness and propensity toward innovation. Inferring from the study of Kets De Vries and Miller  on e m a y  s ugg es t t h at C I Os who are low in openness, and who are inflexible rigid and un-adaptive are often associated with IS strategies that are extremely inflexible and anachronistic as the CIOs insular tendencies cause them to ignore environmental cond  Conversely, CIOs with high openness seek out new information. There is strategies are responsive to the environment. They emphasize reacting and adapting to changing conditions through innovation and flexibility. From another aspect of openness, which is being adventurous and risk-taking, Lewin and Stephens  u e th at  m a n a g e r s  w h o are m o re  adventurous and who possess high risk propensity show more willingness to innovate. They become restless in a stable, certain situation. Innovative IS strategies require the CIOs to be flexible, sensitive and broad-minded in order to scan the environment to detect opportunities for innovation. It also requires the CIO to be adventurous since such IS strategy Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


typically involves some uncertainty. We thus hypothesize H1d CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to possess higher level of openness than CIOs of Defenders Extraversion According to the Trait Theory of Personality, people high on extraversion have been found to prefer higher levels of environmental stimulation, task variety, complexity and cognitive arousa T h is in dicate s t h at th e C I O w i t h high er extraversion may be more inclined toward innovative and flexible IS strategies which are highly involved with cognitive arousal, complexity and task variety In line with the reasoning in openness, extraversion is also found to be positively associated with uncertainty preference in portfolio theory  w h ic h implies that people high on extraversion may show more willingness to undertake more uncertain innovations. Furthermore, Bateman and Gran  have found that people high in extraversion also tend to take actions to influence environmental change by scanning for opportunities, showing initiatives, taking action and persuading people. Since changes are an inherent part of innovative and flexible IS strategy and change resistance is typically encountered during implementation of such strategy, pro-activeness and persuasiveness are necessary characteristics in the CIO to carry out such IS strategy. If openness is related to the CIO s sensitivity to changes and willingness to accept innovation, extraversion is also related to the CIO s ability and charisma to captivate people in carrying out the innovative IS strategy H1e CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to possess higher level of extraversion than CIOs of Defenders 2.3. Performance Benefit of Alignment between CIO and Business Strategy CIOs characteristics, both demographics and personality, will affect the organization s IS strategy 9, 39 h ic h i n tu r n n eed s to be m a tc h e d w i t h t h e organization s business strategy n  organization that has a CIO whose characteristics fit the requirements of the organization s business strategy \(e.g. a Prospector with a younger, more open and more extraverted CIO\ will have a better alignment between IS and business strategy, which will in turn benefit organizational performance in terms of employee productivity, operational efficiency, operational cost, customer satisfaction relationships with partners, revenue, profit and market share H2 The impact of IS on organization s business performance for Prospectors and Defenders that are able to achieve an alignment between characteristics of CIOs and the requirements of the business strategies will be significantly better than that of their counterparts that do not achieve such alignment  3. Research Methodology Survey methodology is used to test our model because it provides a basis for establishing generalizability, allows replicability, and has statistical power. The survey was endorsed by the IT Management Association \(ITMA\, an influential nonprofit organization in East Asia with a significant subscriber base of IT professionals and managers We adapted the operationalization of demographic variables mainly from Barker and Mu W e m easu r ed C I O ag e by ask i ng respondents to indicate the age range to which they belong. We took this approach to minimize the discomfort respondents might experience when responding to sensitive questions such as about age We measured educational level by asking respondents to provide the highest degree they had obtained \(1= Diploma; 2 Bachelor; 3=Master 4=PhD; and 5=others\re-coded one response containing Others as 1 without loss of generality because that respondent only had high school qualifications. We measured tenure by asking how many years the respondent had been in the position of CIO or Head of IT in his current organization of affiliation We adapted personality variables mainly from the International Personality Item Pool. Business strategy attributes were measured using 7-point Likert scales ranging from 1 \(strongly disagree\o 7 \(strongly agree\he questionnaire items were adapted from   T a b le 1  Risk Aversion 1  Our business decisions generally follow tried and true paths 2  We adopt a rather conservative view when making major decisions 3  In general, our mode of operations is less risky than that of our competitors Proactiveness 1  We generally increase capacity \(i.e., prepare to handle a greater volume of business\fore our competitors do the same 2  We are usually the first ones to introduce various products and/or services in the market Openness  1  I love to read challenging material 2  I am quick to understand things 3  I love to think up new ways of doing things 4  I like to challenge the norms Extraversion Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


1  I feel comfortable around people 2  I talk to a lot of different people at parties 3  I know how to captivate people 4  I am skilled in handling social situations Table 1. Business Strategy Attributes \(adapted from   Prior research does indicate that managerial assessments of company performance are highly correlated with objective performance indicators and hence, following Sabherwal and Chan w e relied on perceptual measures of business performance These measures include \(1\employee productivity 2\peration efficiency, \(3\on cost, \(4 customer satisfaction, \(5\ationship with partners 6\revenue earnings, \(7\rofit, and \(8\arket share These items were measured using seven-point Likert scales that compared the company to its competition ranging from 1 \(much worse than the competitor much better than the competitor To assess face and content validity, we presented the survey instrument to the head of ITMA and two experienced CIOs for their comments and advice Based on their suggestions, we made some minor modifications in the wording and framing of the questions. Subsequently, we uploaded the revised instrument onto the web pages, and asked three IT professionals to comment on the layout and presentation of the questionnaire. To avoid information overloading, we incorporated further suggestions to shorten some pages. When the three IT professionals thoroughly tested and found no problems with the instrument, we informed ITMA to proceed with the survey administration 3.1. Survey Administration We placed a survey package consisting of a cover letter stating the study objective, the survey instruction, and the survey questionnaire on a web server. ITMA put up a link on their website to our online survey questionnaire. It also selected suitable members \(holding the title of IS/IT manager, IT Director, CIO, Chief Technical Officer respondents, and sent the survey invitation letter containing the URL web link and a password via email to the members on our behalf. This approach was taken to protect the privacy of ITMA members Together with our decision not to collect any personally identifiable information, separating sending tasks from receiving tasks in the administration of the survey enabled us and the endorsers to enforce strict anonymity and confidentiality for our respondents. The survey invitation was extended to 318 selected senior ITMA members who fit the job profile of a CIO and should be cognizant of IT usage and operations in their organizations, and should thus be able to provide valid and accurate information To increase the response rate, we subsequently provided other options 1 First, the survey package was sent as an e-mail attachment to two organizations that reported problems in accessing the online survey website. Second, 10 packages were sent by conventional mail to organizations that preferred a paper-based survey. One week before the closing deadline of the survey, the head of ITMA also sent reminders to the pre-selected members to respond Of the 318 pre-selected members, 95 responded yielding a response rate of 29.87%. This response rate is acceptable, given the unsolicited nature of the survey and the high profile of the target respondents i.e., the CIOs e s pons e s f r o m  s i x res pon den t s   however, were incomplete. We omitted these from further analysis because we could not recover the missing data due to the anonymous nature of our survey. It is to note that our respondents came from organizations with diverse characteristics in terms of industry, number of employees, and number of IT professionals employed. As we had no detailed information on the non-respondents, we conducted a response bias test \(using student s t-test\ by comparing early respondents against late ones determined by the median value\s all control and independent variables  4. Data Analysis Each response was assessed based on the answers to questions on risk aversion and pro-activeness Organizations with responses of high risk aversion and low pro-activeness were classified as defenders Organizations with responses of low risk aversion and high pro-activeness were classified as prospectors. Others were labeled as analyzers. 8 analyzers were excluded from further analysis as discussed in Section 2.1 The hypothesis testing process comprises three distinct steps. The first step classified the organizations as defenders or prospectors. The second step, we compared the CIO characteristics of prospectors against CIO characteristics of defenders along two broad dimensions: CIO demographic characteristics \(CIO age and CIO educational level and CIO personality \(extraversion and openness Chi-square tests \(see table 2\and analysis of variance see table 3\were used to determine whether the theoretically expected CIO profiles were in fact associated with the distinct strategic postures   1  We maintained the separation of sending and receiving tasks in these new modes of data collection  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Chi-square analyses were used to test the categorical variables: CIO age, CIO tenure and CIO educational level. Our results in CIO demographic characteristics suggest that there is a significant difference between defenders and prospectors in term of age \(t = 2.533, p < .05; Mann Whitney U test of z 2.454, p < .05\but not with respect to tenure \(t 1.371, p > .10; Mann Whitney U test of z = -1.159, p 10\ and educational level \(t = -1.243, p > .10 Mann Whitney U test of z = -1.258, p > .10\ce hypothesis H1a is support but not H1b and H1c Comparatively, our results in CIO personality suggest that prospectors show significantly more extraversion and openness compared to defenders \(see Table 3\ In this regard, hypothesis H1d and H1e are supported  Defender n = 35 Prospector n = 46 CIO Age 35 and below 6 18 36 to 40 4 11 41 to 45 11 7 46 to 50 9 7 51 to 55 4 4 Above 55 1 0 Chi-square 11.457 12.468 Degree of freedom 5 4 Sig .043 .014 CIO Tenure 5 years and below 15 24 6 to 10 years 9 17 11 to 15 years 10 3 16 to 20 years 1 0 21 years and above 1 2 Chi-square 11.714 23.522 Degree of freedom 14 12 Sig .629 .024 CIO Educational Level Diploma and below 6 2 Bachelor 17 25 Master 11 20 PhD 1 0 Chi-square 16.086 18.681 Degree of freedom 3 2 Sig .001 .000 Table 2. Chi-square Analysis Comparing CIOs of Defenders and Prospectors  CIO Personality Defender n = 35 Prospector n = 46 Results Extraversion 4.921 1.336 5.728 896 F 10.557, p 01 Openness 5.120 1.062 5.948 641 F 18.928, p 01 Table 3. Analysis of Variance Comparing CIOs of Defenders and Prospectors The third step, we assessed the performance impact of the business strategy-CIO match. A match was considered to have been achieved when at least 3 of the 4 CIO attributes corresponded to the organizations strategic type. For instance, a matched prospector should be younger, have higher qualification, and possess higher extraversion and higher openness than the average CIO in the sample Performance differences between organizations achieving alignment and other organizations misaligned\ were assessed through analyses of variance \(ANOVA\ \(see Table 4\ It is important to recognize that the two groups, aligned organizations and misaligned organizations are comprised of prospectors and defenders. Further analysis was also conducted to compare aligned-prospectors with misaligned organizations \(see Table 5\. As the number of aligned-defenders was relatively small N=6\, further analysis comparing defenders with misaligned organizations were not conducted Performance Measure Misaligned n =48 Aligned   n =33 Results Increase in Employee Productivity 5.06 \(.783 6.30 684 F 54.302; p 01 Increase in Operation Efficiency 5.23 \(.831 6.15 795 F 24.929; P 01 Increase in Operation Cost 4.81 \(.982 6.15 795 F 36.916; P 01 Increase Customer Satisfaction 5.02 \(.863 6.12 740 F 35.634; P 01 Improvement in relationship with partners 4.81 \(.790 5.82 917 F 27.792; P 01 Increase in Revenue 4.48 \(.989 5.27 1.281 F 9.874; P 01 Increase in Profit 4.83 \(.996 5.58 867 F 12.040; P 01 Increase in Market Share 4.44 \(.987 5.61 1.059 F 25.824; P 01 Aligned-Prospectors \(n=27\; Aligned-Defenders \(n=6 Table 4. Comparing IT Impact on Organization Performance of Aligned and Misaligned Organizations Performance Measure Misaligned n =48 Aligned Prospectors n =27 Results Increase in 5.06 \(.783 6.33 \(.679 F Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


Employee Productivity 49.917 p < .01 Increase in Operation Efficiency 5.23 \(.831 6.15 \(.718 F 23.216 P < .01 Increase in Operation Cost 4.81 \(.982 6.15 \(.718 F 38.324 P < .01 Increase Customer Satisfaction 5.02 \(.863 6.15 \(.770 F 31.816 P < .01 Improvement in relationship with partners 4.81 \(.790 5.93 \(.917 F 30.565 P < .01 Increase in Revenue 4.48 \(.989 5.30 \(1.382 F 8.809; P 01 Increase in Profit 4.83 \(.996 5.63 \(.884 F 11.945 P < .01 Increase in Market Share 4.44 \(.987 5.74 \(1.023 F 29.350 P < .01 Table 5. Comparing IT Impact on Organization Performance of Aligned-Prospector and Misaligned Organizations 5. Discussion Drawing on the study of typologies of business strategy i g nm e n t bet w ee n IS a n d bu si n e s s  strategy d u pper echelon th eor y 11 w e  propose and test a conceptual model \(1\amine the alignment between CIO characteristics and the organization s business strategy and \(2\measure the impact of such alignment on organization s business performance. Our survey results indicate that different business strategies will match with CIOs with different repertoires of competencies experiences and personalities. The impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly better than it is in misaligned ones Before we discuss the implications of the study, it is imperative that we are aware of the study s limitations. First, there is a possibility of common method bias in this study. We have collected our data on both independent and dependent measures through self-reporting at a single point in time. This approach might have given rise to respondents giving answers they believed the survey researchers expected to receive. We minimized these effects in two ways: we implemented the online web-based survey questionnaire in such a way to prevent respondents from back-trekking to change their answers, and we presented the pages of the survey items in a random manner to discourage respondents from figuring out the relationship between the independent and dependent variables that we were trying to establish The anonymous nature of the survey would also mitigate the likelihood that respondents provided self-serving answers or answers they believed we expected Second, our dependent variable organizational performance is measured through CIO s selfreporting response. While CIO may be cognizant to provide such information, this inevitably may affect the objectivity of the measurement as it may only represent the CIO s perception of how IT is used in the organization and there could be an inherent bias in the CIO s perceptions of the phenomenon. One way to address this issue is to adopt some objective measurements of how IT is used in an organization another way is to ask CEO or business manager to comment on the IT and business strategy issues in addition to seeking similar comments from the CIO Notwithstanding the limitations, our findings have the potential to advance both theory and management practice in the following areas. First our research is among the first to empirically study the alignment between CIO characteristics and business strategy since previous research attention has only been paid to the relationship between the CEO and an organization s business strategy and performance in the upper echelon literature. Given the increasing penetration of IS into business and the more and more intensive involvement of CIOs in organizational business strategy formulation, this is a much needed perspective. Our results show that different business strategies will match with CIOs with different repertoires of competencies experiences and personalities \(i.e. CIOs of Prospector are likely to be younger and possess higher level of openness and extraversion than CIOs of Defenders and the impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly better than it is in misaligned ones Second, instead of focusing only on the observable characteristics \(e.g. age, tenure educational level\ the CIO, we also explore their underlying psychological traits such as openness and extraversion. The results indicate that psychological behavioral processes \(openness and extraversion may be far more important than demographic characteristics \(tenure and educational level\n describing a CIO. This may stimulate some debate on the upper echelon perspective concerning the impact of observable characteristics vis-‡-vis the underlying psychological characteristics of top managers on strategic choices. The significance of personality variables and the non-significance of demographic variables such as tenure and educational level are of thought-provoking implications. Clarke u e d  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


that personality traits are likely to be more permanent and consistent during the lifetime of an individual Our study has shown that a CIO can be more accurately described by permanent characteristics such as openness and extraversion than by evolving  characteristics such as tenure and educational level This may suggest that aspects of upper echelon theory that focus on certain demographic characteristics may not necessarily generalize across all functional areas \(e.g. IS Third, we seek to add to the nascent literature that aims to develop theory-based arguments about the profiles of CIOs in organizations. In terms of management practice, understanding the alignment between CIO characteristics and organization s business strategy and the benefits of this alignment would be particularly valuable to the recruitment development and management of key IS personnel  6. References  1 J  L u f t m a n a nd T  B r ie r   Achieving and Sustaining Business-IT Alignment California Management Review 42\(1\, 1999, pp. 109-122 2 M  A d c o c k M H e lm s  a nd K  W e n-J a ng  Information Technology: Can it Provide a Sustainable Competitive Advantage Information Strategy: The Executive Journal 9\(3\, 1993, pp. 10-15  Y Ch an an d S  Hu f f   Strategic Information Systems Alignment Business Quarterly 58\(1\ 1993, pp. 51-56  R S a bh erw a l an d Y E  C h an   Alignment between Business and IS Strategies: A Study of Prospectors Analyzers and Defenders Information Systems Research 12 \(1\, 2001, pp. 11-33   P  Keen  D o Y o u Need a n IT  S t rat e g y i n J N L u f t m a n  ed.\peting in the Information Age, New York Oxford University Press, 1996 6 A  Bo y n t o n  B  Vi ctor an d B  P i ne II A l i g ni ng IT W i t h  New Competitive Strategies. in J. N Luftman \(ed Competing in the Information Age, New York: Oxford University Press, 1996 7 M. J  Ea rl a nd D   F. Fe e n y   Is your CIO adding value Sloan Management Review 35\(3\, 1994, pp. 11-20 8 A  S T hom a s a nd K   R a m a sw am y   Matching Managers to Strategy: Further Tests of Miles and Snow Topology British Journal of Management 7, 1996, pp 247-261 9 D. H Sm a ltz V  Sa m b a m urthy a nd R. A g a r wa l The Antecedents of CIO Role Effectiveness in Organizations An Empirical Study in Healthcare Sector IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management 53 \(2\, 2006, pp 207-222 10  S. W a tts a nd J  C  H e nde rs o n  Innovative IT Climates: CIO Perspectives Journal of Strategic Information Systems 15 \(2\, 2006, pp. 125-151 11 D  C  H a m b ric k a nd P  A  Ma s on Upper Echelons The Organization as a Reflection of its Top Managers  Academy of Management Review 9 \(2\, 1984, pp. 193 206 12 R  E  Mi le s a n d C. C  S now O r g a niz a tiona l Stra te gy  Structure, and Process, New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co 1978 13 J. C. Ca m illus a nd A  L  L e de re r Corporate Strategy and the Design of Computerized Information Systems  Sloan Management Review 26 \(3\985, pp. 35-42 14 Y   P  G u p t a  T  M  K a r i m i  a n d T  M  S o m e r s   Alignment of a Firm s Competitive Strategy and Information Technology Management Sophistication: The Missing Link IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management 44, 1997, pp. 400-413 15 T  M. K a rim i Y   P  G upta  a nd T  M Som e rs  The Congruence between a Firm s Competitive Strategy and Information Technology Leader s Rank and Role Journal of Management Information Systems 13 \(1\, 1996, pp. 6388 16 R  S i m on Accounting Control Systems and Business Strategy Accounting, Organizations and Society 12, 1987 pp. 357-374 1 M  B u rke an d L  L  L i gh t   Memory and Aging: the Role of Retrieval Processes Psychology Bulletin 90 \(3 1981, pp. 513 514 18 K  A  Ba nte l a nd S  E. J a c k s on Top Management and Innovations in Banking: Does the Composition of the Top Management Team Make a Difference Strategic Management Journal 10, 1989, pp. 107-124 19  V  L  Bark er III an d G  C. Mu eller CEO Characteristics and Firm R&D Spending Management Science 48 \(6\2002, pp. 782-801 2 B  M  S t aw an d J Ross  Commitment in an Experimenting Society: A Study of the Attribution of Leadership from Administrative Scenarios Journal of Applied Psychology 65 \(3\, 1980, pp. 249-260 21 D  C  H a m b r i c k a n d G  F u k u t o m i   The Seasons of a CEO s Tenure Academy of Management Review 16 1991, pp. 719-742 2 J  P f ef fer Organ i zat i o n a l Dem o gr ap h y  i n Research i n  Organizational Behavior. ed. L. L. Cummings and B. M Staw, JAI Press. Greenwich, CT, 1983 23 D  Mi lle r Stale in the Saddle: CEO Tenure and the Match between Organization and Environment  Management Science 37 \(1\1991, pp. 34 52 2 J  R Ki m b erl y an d M  J  E v an i s ko   Organizational Innovation: The Influence of Individual, Organizational and Contextual Factors on Hospital Adoption of Technical Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


and Administrative Innovations Academy of Management Journal 24 \(4\ 1981, pp. 689-713 25 A  Y. L e w i n a nd C. U Ste phe ns  CEO Attitudes as Determinants of Organization Design: An Integrated Model Organization Studies 15 \(2\1994, pp. 183-212 26 J   M. H o w e ll a nd C  A  H i g g i ns  Champions of Technological Innovation Administrative Science Quarterly 35, 1990, pp. 317-341 27 D Mille r a n d J. M. T o ulo u se  Chief Executive Personality and Corporate Strategy and Structure in Small Firms Management Science 32 \(11\1986, pp. 13891409 28  V P a pa da k i s a nd D  B o ur a n ta s   The Chief Executive Officer as Corporate Champion of Technological Innovation: An Empirical Investigation Technology Analysis and Strategic Management 10 \(1\, 1998, pp. 89108 29 J M. Dig m a n  Personality Structure: Emergence of the Five-Factor Model Annual Review of Psychology 41 1\, 1990, pp. 417-440 30  P. T  Co sta an d  P. R McCrae, Rev i sed NEO  Personality Inventory \(NEO PI-R\he NEO FiveFactor Inventory \(NEO-FFI\ofessional manual, Odessa FL: Psychological Assessment Resources, 1992 3 M  Di gm an an d J Ino u y e  Further Specifications of the Five Robust Factors of Personality Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 50 \(1\86, pp. 116123 32 M  R  B a r r i c k  M  K  M o u n t  a n d T  A  J u d g e   Personality and Performance at the Beginning of the New Millennium: What Do We Know and Where Do We Go Next Personality and Performance 9 \(1/2\, 2001, pp. 930 33 J   M  D i g m a n a n d A  G S h me l y o v   A  G   The Structure of Temperament and Personality in Russian Children Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 71\(2\, 1996, pp. 341-51 34 Ke ts De  V r ie s a n d D. Mille r T h e Ne ur otic  Organization, Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, 1984 35 A  Y. L e w i n a nd C. U Ste phe ns  CEO Attitudes as Determinants of Organization Design: An Integrated Model Organization Studies 15 \(2\1994, pp. 183-212 3 H. J E y sen c k an d A  Le ve y   Alternation in Choice Behavior and Extraversion Life Sciences 4, 1965, pp 115-119 3 R E   V e st ew i g   Extraversion and Risk Preference in Portfolio Theory The Journal of Psychology 97 \(2\1977 pp. 237-245 3 T   S  Bat e m a n an d J M  G r an t   The Proactive Component of Organizational Behavior: A measure and Correlations Journal of Organizational Behavior 14 \(2 1993, pp. 103-118 3  Ya y l a an d Q Hu   Determinants of CIO Compensation Structure and Its Impact on Firm Performance Proceedings of the 41 st Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2008, pp 427-427 40 G  S K e a r ns  The Effect of Top Management Support of SISP on Strategic IS Management: Insights from the US Electric Power Industry Omega 34 \(3\ 2006 pp. 236-253 4 H H T e o  K K W e i and I Be n b a sat  Predicting Intention to Adopt Interorganizational Linkages: An Institutional Perspective MIS Quarterly 27 \(1\03, pp 19-49 42 L  Cla r k e  Conflict, Consistency and Fulfillment Revisited: Approaches to Modelling the Person Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing 4 \(6\, 1997, pp 407-416. 1997 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


