Jiu-cheng Ma 
Organizational Silence A Survey on Employees Working in a Telecommunication Company Dan Liut Jun Wu 
1 Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications Beijing 100876 China liudan@bupt.edu.cn 
3 2 
2  
Beijing University of 
Posts and Telecommunications Beijing 100876 China Gunwu@bupt.edu.cn 
Beijing Institute of Clothing Technology Beijing 100029 China jiucheng200 l@yahoo.com.cn  ABSTRACT How to break silence culture and establish a free climate to encourage employees voice are big challenges faced to mangers This study is to research the interactions between managers and employees and focus on employees negative psychological state when organization silence occurs In this sense questionnaires were applied a mobile communication company in China 444 pairs 
3 
of questionnaires were delivered and 314 pairs of usable responses of were taken Questionnaire data was analyzed and according to the results our presumption is fully supported Different leadership style has different effect on employees inside feeling and negative psychological state is prone to withholding opinions in organization context Adopting hierarchical multiple regression we completely testify that negative psychological state is a mediator between participative leadership behaviors information-sharing leadership behavior and employee silence The results of Path Analysis also show the causal relationship of all the predicted variables 
Keywords 
Organizational Silence Leadership Behavior Negative Psychological State Mobile Communication Company 1 INTRODUCTION Is silence gold Silence is associated with many virtues modesty respect for others prudence decorum People silence themselves to avoid embarrassment confrontation and other perceived dangers  1  Organizational silence refers to a collective-level phenomenon of saying or doing very little in response to significant problems that face an organization  2  Morrison and Milliken 3 proposed that when most members of an organization choose to keep silent about organizational matters silence becomes a collective behavior which is referred to as organizational silence 
Organizational silence may take various forms such as collective silence in meetings low levels of participation in suggestion schemes low levels of collective voice and so forth In the current study it is focused on only one aspect of silence the withholding of opinions This organizational-level silence differs from individual-level silence employee voice issue-selling and whistle-blowing in two ways Organizational silence can have detrimental effects on decision-making and processes of change by blocking alternative views negative feedback and accurate information 4 Employees are regarded as major sources 
of change creativity learning and innovation which are critical factors to the success of organizations However many employees choose not to voice their opinions and concerns about matters in their organizations While in a changing world organizations need for employees who 978-1-4244-4136-5/09/$25.00 2512009 IEEE express their ideas Also employees choose organizations in which they can express themselves Because both employees and managers have high motivation and high performance in a place that silence doesn't exist How to break silence culture and establish a free climate to encourage employees voice are big challenges faced to mangers This matter is quite important for telecommunication industry because 
of its service provision especially in Chinese context The purpose of this study is to shed light on the types of issues that employees are reluctant to raise and identify why employees sometimes decide to remain silent rather than voice their concerns We interviewed 444 employees and their supervisors and tried to find why employees were concerned about an issue but did not raise it to a supervisor The framework emphasizes three specific employee negative psychological states based on existing management literature on silence and voice distrust cynicism and anxiety resulting in silence We integrate our conceptualization with prior work on silence by incorporating existing constructs into our 
framework We extend research by proposing additional categories of silence and voice based on a more fine-grained consideration of the employee motivations behind the behavior psychological feelings 2 RELATED WORKS The hierarchical relationship between subordinate and supervisor appears to intensify the mum effect  5  More than half a century ago Festinger  6 noted that structuring groups into hierarchies automatically 1647 


introduces restraints against free communication particularly criticisms by low-status members toward those in higher-status positions Research by Athanassiades 7 among others suggests that this is a form of instrumental self-protective behavior Although the evidence is inconsistent 8 it appears that employees are most likely to filter information that they convey upward when they have high mobility aspirations which they do not want to jeopardize and when they lack trust in their supervisor  9  More recently researchers have sought to explore factors that might make people willing to communicate up hierarchies or to sell issues to higher management Saunders Shepard Knight and Roth  10 1 for example found that employees willingness to voice work-related concerns and suggestions to their bosses depended on how approachable and responsive they perceived their supervisors to be This fmding is consistent with Glauser's  8 review of earlier works which suggested that upward communication is affected not only by characteristics of the communicator the message and the organizational context but also by characteristics of the supervisor-subordinate relationship It is not easy to break silence climate of employees and their managers The behavioral cycles that maintain organizational silence will be hard to break in part because they are not subject to direct observation or discussion To prevent silence from characterizing their organizations leaders should not only permit but reward employees who come forward with sensitive or risky information and should create formal mechanisms through which employees can speak up anonymously if they wish to do so Otherwise undesirable reactions may elicit from employees such as not valued lack control and cognitive dissonance  11  Psychology is the logical starting point of action we believe managerial behavior has effects on employees inside world and leads to relative actions in some organization contexts such as organizational silence The study focuses on the research in participating leadership behavior and informing leadership behavior seeking for the leadership behaviors that have significant impacts on Chinese employees in domestic telecommunication companies From management practice taking employees negative psychological state as moderator variable this research tried to find the mechanism of employee silence behavior as well In our research employee's negative psychological state has been decompounded into 3 specific ones distrust in management cynicism and anxiety Based on abundant literature research this study pays critic attention mainly to Chinese managers leadership behaviors especially those with typical domestic management characteristics according to the present Chinese particular economic social and cultural environments 3 RESEARCH MOTHODS The survey was administered to employees in Beijing Mobile Communication Co LTD There are 9 functional departments and 11 operation centers in the company We classified them into three categories by their attribution marketing center suburb operation centre and other units Then we draw 35 groups and each group members are above 3 Employees participated in this study 444 pairs of questionnaires a manger and an employee as a pair of sample were distributed and 314 pairs of usable responses were obtained The sample included 66 males and 34 females Their average age was 31 years and their average working experience was 5.8 years Participative leadership behavior information-sharing leadership behavior questionnaire are based on Arnold's  12 leadership empowering behavior constructions We took two dimensions from five and got 12 items Measuring negative psychological state questionnaires are based on three separate constructs which are categorized into cynicism distrust and anxiety Cynicism is measured from Ryan et al  13 by 8 items Distrust from Ronya et al  14 by 7 items Anxiety from Doby and Caplan  15 by 13 items Employees silence is measured by 6 items developed by Van Dyne et al  15  In order to avoid data bias in this study we assessed employees silence behaviors from two resources self-evaluation and superior-evaluation All these questionnaires are designed as five point Liker Scale from I-strongly agree to 5-strongly disagree where the rating 3 was for interviewees who feel neutral The first version of questionnaire was pilot tested by 30 participants Factor analysis showed that the multi-item scales used to test the research concept were multidimensional or unidimensional just as the original scales The reliability of the questionnaire was measured in terms of coefficient alpha and was found to be over 0.7 4 RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS The 314 pairs of responses were used to conduct the analysis using SPSS for Windows 13.0 and AMOS 6.0 to test hypotheses Hierarchical multiple regression analysis was used to test the relationships among managerial behavior employees negative state and organizational silence The results indicated that most of the relationships were significant The structural model tested with using AMOS 6.0 is shown in table l.Several goodness of fit indices of the measurement model have been widely used to assess how well the model explains the observed data GFI NFl IFI CFI are above 0.90 RFI TLI are less than 0.90 RMSEA=0.090 The statistics indicates acceptance level of parsimony and fit of the overall model 1648 


a management o           1649 Information Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level 2-tailed Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level 2-tailed Table 1 Model measurement NFl RFI IFI TLI CFI Model GFI X 2 df X 2/df Delta 1 Rho 1 Delta2 rho2 RMSEA 1 0.915 211.013 60 3.517 0.900 0.849 0.927 0.887 0.925 0.090 5 MANAGERIAL IMPLICATIONS This study gained quite rich results At the same time of verifying the hypothesis we also got some very interesting fmdings with strong practical significance To begin with the effects of the three types of negative psychological feelings we selected on the silent behavior of the staff are different That is if employees are cynical and distrust their leaders they will keep silence while the employees who are in anxiety state are more willing to express their views This requires that we should determine employees inside psychological feelings from external behavior and not blindly believe that employees have no negative emotions as long as he can put forward some suggests Furthermore the study confirmed the direct and indirect effects of participative decision-making leadership behavior and information-sharing leadership behavior on the negative psychological feelings of employees employees silence behavior and the work performance Establishing the evaluate criteria for we should decide whether the manager has participative decision-making leadership behavior and information-sharing leadership behavior In order to ensure the rationality of the evaluation that need to be considered as one of the key to evaluate business managers We can also give more guidance on how to implement the leadership behavior of effective participative decision-making and sharing-information in fostering outstanding managers In short the importance of the leadership behavior of participative design-making and sharing-information should be highlighted in work It is benefit for enhancing the enterprise performance In hierarchical multiple regression negative psychological state was put into the quotation as first independent variable then enter participative management and information sharing management subsequently Results in table 3 shows that when participative management put into regression quotation after negative psychological state the coefficient of determination had no changes That was to say participative management had no stand-alone effect on negative psychological state and it proved negative psychological was mediator between participative that leadership behavior and employee silence As well information-sharing leadership behavior had effect in employee silence self-valuation mediating through negative psychological state T 0.131 0.128 0.287 0.017 0.082 0.462 sharing management o 0.016 0.214 r The statistics suggested that participative management and information sharing management were explained variables for employees silence behavior coefficient of determination were 0.017 0.082 0.016 0.214\(p<.05 Hypotheses are basically supported The relationship between Participative management and employees negative psychological state was negative and significant The relationship between information sharing and employees negative psychological state was negative and significant as well Employees silence behavior self-valuation showed negative and significant relationship with cynicism distrust and anxiety But employees silence behavior superior-valuation only had positive relationship with distrust The relationships with cynicism and anxiety were not been proved Although in measurement model we found employees negative psychological state did have positive effects on silence behavior when cynicism distrust and anxiety regarded as just a variable When we looked again there are some new fmdings First there are differences between self-evaluation and superior-evolution in employees silence behavior To some extent it confirmed our research plan that people would like to modify self behavior and show a better image to others Results showed that when people feel bad they were prone to keep silence while from superiors view trust was the most important thing to establish good relationship the their subordinates otherwise people might choose silence to against them Hierarchical multiple regression analysis indicated that participative leadership behavior and information-sharing leadership behavior have effect in employee silence mediating through negative psychological state Table 2 is the regression results taking participative management and informational sharing management as independent variables by Enter method R R bl 2 S\267 e Imp e mear regression Variables Employees Silence Employees Silence superior-valuation self-valuation Participative I 2 2 


Harvard Business Review Management and Organization Review Human Relations Academy of Management Journal analysis.Human Relations Journal of Organizational Behavior Employees Silence\(self-valuation HSR Health Services Research Journal of Management Studies Sociometry Academy of Management Journal supervisors.Employee Responsibilities and Rights Journal Academy of Management Executive 11\(1 Table 3 Hierarchical multiple regression Employees Silence\(superior-valuation Variables B 1650  Josh A Arnold Sharon Arad Jonathan A Rhoades and Fritz Drasgow\(2000 The Empowering Leadership Questionnaire The Construction and Validation of a New Scale for Measuring Leader Behaviors Academy of Management Review have long-lasting impact on employees We believe these implications of management that given in this study will be far-reaching thought-provoking As with all research this study has some limitations It is limited by the sample size that responded to the survey Another limitation is that the data were gathered from only one mobile communication company Further research of a wider range of employees would have given even better sample for generalization REFERENCES  Perlow Leslie Williams Stephanie 2003 Is Silence Killing Your Company May 3-4 2 Henriksen Kern Dayton Elizabeth 2006 Organizational Silence and Hidden Threats to Patient Safety 41:4 Part 11,1539-1554 3 Morrison Elizabeth Wolfe Milliken Frances J 2000 Organizational Silence A Barrier to Change and Development in a Pluralistic World Vol 25 No.4 70B-725  Huang Xu Van De Vliert Evert Van Der Vegt Gerben 2005 Breaking the Silence Culture Stimulation of Participation and Employee Opinion Withholding Cross-nationally 1:3 1740-8776  Milliken Frances J Morrison Elizabeth W Hewlin Patricia E 2003 An Exploratory Study of Employee Silence Issues that Employees Don't Communicate Upward and Why 40:6 September 1454-1476 Rosen S  Tesser A 1970 On reluctance to communicate undesirable information The MUM effect 33 253-263 6 Festinger L 1954 A theory of social comparison processes 40 427-448 7 Athanassiades J C 1973 The distortion of upward communication in hierarchical organizations 16 207-226  Glauser M J 1984 Upward information flow in organizations Review and conceptual 37 613-643  Roberts K H  O'Reilly C A 1974 Failures in upward communication in organizations:Three possible culprits 17 205-215  Saunders D M Sheppard B H Knight V  Roth J 1992 Employees voice to 5:241-259  Reichers A E Wanous J.P  Austin J.T 1997 Understanding and managing cynicism about organizational change Vol 21 No.3 249-269  Ryan K D  Oestreich D K.\(1991 Driving fear out of the workplace How to overcome the invisible barriers to quality productivity and innovation San Francisco Jossey-Bass Step1 Negative psychological state Step2:Participative management Variables 0.110 0.012 0.101 0.006 Employees Silence\(superior-valuation 0.330   0.109   0.133 0.011 Employees Silence\(self-valuation B Step1:Negative psychological state Step2:Information sharing management 0.110  0.098 0.012  0.006 0.330  0.416 0.109   0.108   Finally all of the managements or organizational policies which can touch the feelings of people 


Journal of Management Studies 40\(6 Journal of Management Studies 40:6,0022-2380 I 1651  Sonya Fontenot Premeaux  Arthur G.Bedeian\(2003 Breaking the silence The Moderating Effects of Self-Monitoring in Predicting Speaking Up in the Workplace  Van Dyne L Ang S  Botero The Academy of Management Journal C 2003 Conceptualizing employee silence and employee 15 J Doby and Robert D Caplan\(1995 Organizational Stress as Threat to Reputation Effects on Anxiety at Work and at Home Victoria Vol 38 1105-1123 voice as multidimensional constructs 


Figure 6 Albedo configurations of the synthetic spectra found by the Synthetic Spectra Degeneracy Analyzer Each configuration leads to a synthetic spectrum that matches the Earthshine data within a 10 error bar 6 DISCUSSION The representative solutions of the retrieved solutions shown in Figure 6 enable a science-based discussion of the results Some of the cluster centers almost exclusively differ by the ratios of the grass to forest coverage e.g cluster 9 has a high ratio whereas cluster 8 has a low ratio This result suggests that grass and forest coverage are equivalent with respect to their spectral contribution within error-bars Figure 7 0.3  Population Solutions Is and Solutions Clus0 T 5 et OPPLtatio Solutions The cluster C slueslet enters of slalod SolutithLis ic cano beA rerive fro the Eahhnv pctu 8,i saelit data i.e.,gon rt u Fto th iwn m 1 30 6 0.55 0.5 0-45 _ Fi:rst Principal Compoent Figure 7 Principal Component Analysis results obtained with the Synthetic Spectra Degeneracy Analyzer The cluster center solutions also suggest that low clouds and ice cannot be retrieved from the Earthshine spectrum 8 in agreement with known observational parameters and satellite data i.e ground truth Due to the viewing geometry and season of the year N.H summer in fact ice was not visible As concerns low clouds they are easily masked by medium and high clouds which reside at higher altitude It is important to note that these conclusions were reached without introducing any prior knowledge of the system This demonstrates that the ECM-based retrieval framework introduced here seems to be capable of producing meaningful scientific results with a minimal set of a priori assumptions ECM-based spectral retrieval will become particularly relevant in the context of extra-solar planetary studies where close to nothing is known about the observed objects Outlook The ECM-based spectral retrieval process can be refined by increasing the parameter space to a large number of components Further one can also iterate the manner in which fitnesses are computed by examining large numbers of solutions thereby optimizing fitness functions i.e for maximizing discriminability of degeneracies among solutions In forthcoming work we will explore/expand the search space as permitted by the scalability of the available computer resources We will also run numerical experiments to assess the gain/loss in information content induced by an increased spectral resolution which in turn requires an increased integration time necessary to complete the observations We have conducted preliminary experiments using a synthetic target spectrum instead of the observational Earthshine spectrum as a standard reference for automated spectral retrieval using ECM Retrievals were run for various modifications of the fitness functions Our standard method uses minimization of the area between the reference and retrieved spectra Additional methods preferentially weight special regions of the target spectrum e.g continuum values line centers steep slopes etc The results of PCA were compared for varying constraints on the fitness function to determine if clustering i.e spectral degeneracy can be modulated Initial results indicate that constraints on instrument requirements i.e wavelength range signal to noise resolution etc can be determined from these ECM-based retrievals 7 CONCLUSIONS We have demonstrated that Evolutionary Computational Methods ECM can be used for automatic spectral retrieval and that the results are scientifically consistent with ground truth We have further demonstrated that we can use clustering tools to discriminate classes of spectral fits and identify degeneracy non-uniqueness in solutions The computational time used in these experiments indicates that full parameter retrievals are achievable with available computational resources in reasonable run-times Preliminary experiments using synthetic target spectra indicate that spectral instrument design parameters can be derived from scientific forward models of the observational environment Evolutionary Computational Methods are applied to the forward models to retrieve large populations of synthetic spectra that can be evaluated under varying fitness conditions to maximize spectral discriminability ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 6 


References herein to any specific commercial product REFERENCES process or service by trade name trademark manufacturer or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by 1 Terrile R J Adami C Aghazarian H Chau S N the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Dang V T Ferguson M I Fink W Huntsberger T Laboratory Califoria Institute of Technology L Klimeck G Kordon M A Lee S von Alhmen P A and Xu J 2005 Evolutionary Computation Technologies for Space Systems IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings Big Sky MT March 2005 2 Terrile R J Kordon M Mandutianu D Salcedo J Wood E and Hashemi M 2006 Automated Design of Spacecraft Power Subsystems IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings Big Sky MT March 2006 3 Terrile R J Kordon M Postma M Salcedo J Hanks D and Wood E 2007 Automated Design of Spacecraft Telecommunication Subsystems Using Evolutionary Computational Techniques IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings Big Sky MT March 2007 4 Terrile R J Fink W Huntsberger T Lee S Tisdale E R Tinetti G and von Alhmen P 2005 Retrieval of Extra-Solar Planetary Spectra Using Evolutionary Computational Methods Bull Amer Astron Soc 37 5 Terrile R Lee S Tinetti G Fink W Tisdale E R Huntsberger T and von Alhmen P 2006 Spectral Retrieval of Exoplanetary Signatures Using Evolutionary Computational Methods Proceeding of the EGU General Assembly Vienna Austria 6 Beichman C.A N J Woolf and C.A Lindensmith The Terrestrial Planet Finder TPF JPL 99-3,1999 7 Lawson P.R Unwin S.C  Beichman C.A 2004 Precursor Science for the Terrestrial Planet Finder JPL Publication 04-014 8 Woolf N.J P.S Smith W.A Traub and K.W Jucks The spectrum of earthshine A pale blue dot observed from the ground Astrophysical Journal 574 1 430-433 2002 9 Arnold L S Gillet 0 Lardiere P Riaud and J Schneider A test for the search for life on extrasolar planets Looking for the terrestrial vegetation signature in the Earthshine spectrum Astronomy  Astrophysics 392 1 231-237 2002 10 Tinetti G V.S Meadows D Crisp,W Fong T Velusamy H Snively Disk-averaged synthetic spectra of Mars Astrobiology 5 4 2005 7 


11 Tinetti G V.S Meadows D Crisp E Fishbein M Tumbull and J.P Bibring Detectability of Planetary Characteristics in Disk-Averaged Spectra I the Earth Model Astrobiology 2006 Vol 6 n 1 12 Hanel R.A Conrath B.J Jennings D.E Samuelson R.E Exploration of the Solar System by infrared remote sensing Cambridge Planetary Science Series Cambridge University Press 1992 13 Rodgers C.D Inverse Methods for Atmospheric Sounding Theory and Practice Series on Atmospheric Oceanic and Planetary Physics Vol 2 World Scientific Publishing Co 2004 14 Terrile RJ Aghazarian H Ferguson MI Fink W Huntsberger TL Keymeulen D Klimeck G Kordon MA Lee S von Alhmen P 2005b Evolutionary Computation Technologies for the Automated Design of Space Systems accepted for publication in 2005 NASA/DoD Conference on Evolvable Hardware IEEE Computer Society 15 Mitchell M An Introduction to Genetic Algorithms The MIT Press 1996 16 Aarts E J Korst Simulated Annealing and Boltzmann Machines A Stochastic Approach to Combinatorial Optimization and Neural Computing John Wiley  Sons Chichester 1989 17 Barradas N.P C Jeynes R.P Webb Simulated annealing analysis of Rutherford backscattering data Appl.Phys.Lett 71 1997 291-3 18 Holland J.H Adaptation in Natural and Artificial Systems The University of Michigan Press Ann Arbor Michigan 1975 19 Goldberg D.E Genetic Algorithms in Search Optimization and Machine Learning Addison-Wesley 1989 20 Metropolis N A.W Rosenbluth M.N Rosenbluth A.H Teller E Teller Equation of State Calculation by Fast Computing Machines J of Chem Phys 21 1087-1091 1953 21 Kirkpatrick S C.D Gelat M.P Vecchi Optimization by Simulated Annealing Science 220 671--680 1983 22 Meadows V.S and D Crisp Ground-based nearinfrared observations of the Venus nightside The thermal structure and water abundance near the surface Journal of Geophysical Research-Planets 101 E2 4595-4622 1996 23 Crisp D Absorption of sunlight by water vapor in cloudy conditions A partial explanation for the cloud absorption anomaly Geophysical Research Letters 24 5 571-574 1997 24 Fishbein E C.B Farmer S.L Granger D.T Gregorich M.R Gunson S.E Hannon M.D Hofstadter S.-Y Lee S.S Leroy Formulation and Validation of Simulated Data for the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder AIRS IEEE Transactions on Geoscience  Remote Sensing Vol 41 N 2 Feb 2003 1 25 Gorski K.M Hivon E and Wandelt B.D Analysis issues for large CMB data sets Proceedings Evolution of Large Scale Structure-Garching 1998 26 Huntsberger T.L C L Jacobs and R.L Cannon Iterative fuzzy image segmentation Pattern Recognition Vol 18 pp 13 1-138 1985 BIOGRAPHY Richard J Terrile created and directs the Center for Evolutionary Computation and Automated Design at NASA s Jet Propulsion Laboratory His group has dveloped genetic algorithm based tools to improve on human design of space systems and has demonstrated that computer aided design tools can also be used for automated innovation and design of complex systems He is a planetary astronomer and the co-discoverer of the Beta Pictoris circumstellar disk Dr Terrile has B.S degrees in Physics and Astronomy from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an MS and a Ph.D in Planetary Science from the California Institute of Technology in 1978 Seungwon Lee is a member of the technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Her research interest includes genetic algorithms low-thrust trajectory design nanoelectronics quantum computation parallel cluster computation and advanced scientiJfic software modernization techniques Seungwon received her Ph.D in physics from the Ohio State University in 2002 Her work is documented in numerous journals and conference proceedings 8 


Institute of Technology in Lausanne Switzerland in 1990 His work is documented in numerous publications and patents Giovanna Tinetti is a researcher at the Dep of Physics and Astronomy of the University College London since September 2007 She is author of more than twenty peer-reviewed publications on planetary science spectroscopy and exoplanet characterization among which the most recent discovery of water vapor in the atmosphere of an extrasolar planet After her PhD in theoretical physics from the University of Torino Italy she worked for four years at the California Institute of Technology and two years at the Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris Wolfgang Fink is a Senior Researcher at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA Research Associate Professor of both Ophthalmology and Neurological Surgery at the University of Southern California Los Angeles CA and Visiting Associate in Physics at the California Institute of Technology Pasadena CA He is the founder and head of the Visual and Autonomous Exploration Systems Research Laboratory at Caltech t o  His research interests include autonomous planetary and space exploration computational field geology computer optimization image processing and analysis sensor data fusion astrobiology and biomedicine Dr Fink obtained a B.S and M.S degree in Physics and Physical Chemistry from the University of Gottingen and a Ph.D in Theoretical Physics from the University of Tubingen in 1997 His work is documented in numerous publications andpatents Terrance L Hunts berger is a Principal Member of the Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Section at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA where he is the Manager for numerous tasks in the areas of multi-robot control systems rover systems for access to high risk terrain and long range traverse algorithms for rovers He is an Adjunct Professor and former Director of the Intelligent Systems Laboratory in the Department of Computer Science at the University of South Carolina His research interests include behavior-based control computer vision neural networks wavelets and biologically inspired system design Dr Huntsberger has published over 120 technical articles in these and associated areas He received his PhD in Physics in 1978 from the University of South Carolina He is a member of SPIE ACM IEEE Computer Society and INNS Paul von A ilmen is the supervisor of the Applied Cluster Computing Technologies group and a senior researcher at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Paul is currently leading research in quantum computing thermoelectric and nonlinear optics material and device design nano-scale chemical sensors semiconductor optical detectors and low-thrust trajectory optimization Prior to joining JPL in 2002 Paul worked at the IBM Zurich Research Lab on semiconductor diode lasers at the University of Illinois on the silicon device sintering process and at the Motorola Flat Panel Display Division as manager of the theory and simulation group and as principal scientist on micro-scale gas discharge UV lasers Paul received his Ph.D in physics from the Swiss Federal 9 


align than would opinions from a more diverse group of experts, thus measures of conflict are thought to be conservative in this report Also, concerning respondent bias, this study generated its output from a limited number of responses.  Non-respondents expressed reasons for not participating that included distrust, being too busy, vacation, and difficulty authenticating themselves on the survey s Website.  Invalid e-mail addresses and spam blocking filters also contributed to the reduction of responses [8  The set of 103 tasks presented within this report are not implied to represent a comprehensive set of tasks forensic examiners perform pertaining to the forensic data acquisition of personal computer workstations.  This set of tasks is limited to those that were identified by respondents of this study.  No conditional logic regarding the performance of tasks is suggested nor is the sequence of the performance of tasks  4.3. Call for additional research  Given the importance of expert testimony in legal proceedings and the level of conflict among forensic computer experts revealed within this study, more study is needed to develop a better understanding of the causes of conflict and solutions to reduce conflict For example, future studies may identify beneficial solutions from licensing organizations, industry standards, mandatory training, or legislation regarding the credentials of forensic computer examiners. Clearly, the inconsistency among forensic computer examiners opinions identified within this study illustrates a weakness within our legal system that has the potential to alter trail outcomes, thus allowing the guilty to be acquitted and the not-guilty to be wrongly convicted  5. References  1 V o lo ni no, L A n z a l dua R., a nd G odw in, J Co m pute r  Forensics Principles and Practices, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, 2007  2 N e ls on B Phil lips  A Enf i ng e r F., a n d S t e w a r t, C Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, 3 rd Ed Thomson, Boston, 2008  3 Ke rr, O.S Digital Evidence and the New Criminal Procedure Columbia Law Review, 105\(1\005, p.279318  4 K n a pp, K  L Me e ting the D a ube rt Cha lle ng e  A Mode l  to Test the Relevance and Reliability of Expert Testimony ProQuest, Ann Arbor, Michigan, UMI 3098259, 2003  5 Na tiona l Instit ute of Justic e  Fore nsic Ex a m ina tion of  Digital Evidence: A Guide for Law Enforcement, \(NCJ 199408\.S. Government Printing Office, Washington DC, 2004  6 Ca rlton  G  H., A P r otoc ol f o r the Fore nsic Da ta  Acquisition of Personal Computer Workstations, ProQuest Ann Arbor, Michigan, UMI 3251043, 2007  7 G l a s e r B G a nd S t ra us s  A  L T h e D i s c ov e r y o f  Grounded Theory: Strategies for Qualitative Research Aldine Publishing Co., New York, 1967  8 Ca rlton  G  H., Fore nsic Da ta  A c quisition T a sk Performance Guide The Identification and Measurement of a Protocol for the Forensic Data Acquisition of Personal Computer Workstations, http://www.htcia.org, 2006  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Scenario 7 Figure 3 Plots for the frame size distributions for the various scenarios along with the as the SCaN simulator based was available 11 I Frames P Frames B Frames T  I-1 a-2--a 0 0 0 0 0 m on Qualnet 4 TELEMETRY TRAFFIC MODEL Telemetry transmissions from the spacecraft to the command center generally take as follows First some are aperiodic These traffic may represent various instrumentation measurements sensory outputs file downloads etc On the right side of the picture was not partitioned into sub-channels but rather data was transmitted only when it we come to the following conclusions about the packet size distribution for this type of encoding scheme  In the we present we determine the statistical distribution of the type of video which we are interested in transmitting As we note from the above picture the telemetry transmission wastes one can use the traffic synthesizing tool to generate random traffic whose frame statistical distribution approximates the distribution of the traffic which a lot of bandwidth when a lot or blue sky the size of the I frames is relatively small see scenarios 1 4  In the are much smaller than those of I frames see scenarios 1,2,5,6,7  If the main object in the picture is moving quite are multiplexed together Some of these traffics are constant bit rate are described by on the above data a large evenly painted surface a file in a large amount of bandwidth The type of traffic that generally is being transmitted via a telemetry channel is formed by multiple types of traffic which so that each telemetry data has its a particular sub-channel For this reason cases the telemetry transmission will look something like in Figure 5 Contrary to Figure 4 right side in Figure 5 the channel own designated sub-channel see Figure 4 For example in the left side of Figure 4 can be used by network simulation tools such we are interested in analyzing This synthesized traffic generated by we designate each telemetry type to we have seen one can model the frame sizes of the different type of frames by gamma approximations Based or there is very little detail in the pictures i.e the pictures are of even if the picture has many objects with rich detail the sizes of P and B frames even if the background is rather stationary the distribution of the frame sizes is much thicker i.e having higher variance see scenarios 3,4,7 Video synthesis In this section a video synthesizer for MPEG v4 encoded video which has been developed in order to generate sample traffic for live video transmissions The synthesizing of the video traffic is done a gamma distribution Using the tools developed above on preexisting traffic of the type we are interested to transmit one can find the parameters of the gamma distribution which best fit this type of traffic Given the parameters determined by those tools our tool is outputted to a format which some are periodic in nature while others may be event based non-periodic The classical approach to telemetry is to schedule the transmission we see multiple types of traffic some of which a constant bit rate some are periodic and we see the traffic being fit through a channel which has been partitioned into sub-channels Figure 4 Traffic allocated to dedicated channels As a more desirable approach would be to multiplex together all of the transmissions In such case in which the background for the video is dark case in which there is little movement in the background 


Figure 5 Statistically multiplexed traffic We note that in this case we would be able to utilize some of the free channel space for other types of transmissions which may be more delay tolerant see Figure 6 For example in this figure the bottom blue transmission can be thought to be a file which is packetized and needs to be transmitted down from the spacecraft We consider this file to be delay tolerant i.e the data is not needed right away down on the ground and it has a lower priority then the other traffics needed to be transmitted The delay tolerant packets will be transmitted only when the channel is not being fully utilized as to fill in the gaps available in the channel bandwidth This technique will delay the arrival of the delay tolerant traffic but will enable us to more fully utilize our channel bandwidth m T]T m Figure 6 Telemetry traffic along with delay tolerant traffic being sent via a channel We note in above scenario that although the delay tolerant traffic was transmitted at time 0 none of it was able to be transmitted until time 1 Also we note that the final delay tolerant traffic packet was transmitted 9 time instances later then it was received For this reason a buffering scheme must be devised such that all the delay tolerant traffic may be buffered until enough bandwidth for transmission exists Since no specific data was available on the dynamics of the various telemetry type traffics we developed a generic telemetry model which is formed by two types of traffic one constant bit rate which represents the sensory information which is constantly being transmitted down to the ground and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents file download and periodic data updates We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to telemetry constant bit rate  peak of intermittent transmission We will also assume that the intermittent transmission file transfer will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new files are ready to be transferred Using the above model we created a Matlab based tool for synthesizing traffic for simulation purposes The traffic generated by this tool is output to a file in a format which can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 5 COMMAND TRAFFIC MODEL The model for the command will be similar in spirit to the model which we have proposed for telemetry We see the data transmitted for command to be formed by two different types of transmission One constant bit rate which represents calls to various preloaded spacecraft subroutines and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents subroutine uploads to the spacecraft We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to command and we also assume that the intermittent transmission subroutine upload will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new subroutines are ready to be transferred Using this model we have developed a Matlab based traffic synthesizing tool The traffic provided by this tool can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 6 CONCLUSIONS This work has resulted in the development of a suite of traffic models that captures the fundamental types that will be in the space communications environment and in particular These models provide the capability to investigate the new IP-based communications functions and resulting performance that are required by the human exploration missions of NASA's Constellation Program and the Space Communications and Navigation SCaN network's ability to support them Four prototypical traffic models have been developed from which any number of streams may be generated 1 audio/voice 2 real-time motion imager live video 3 telemetry including both regular periodic data as well as intermittent file downloads and 4 command including periodic data as well as intermittent subroutine uploads The voice traffic model stochastically parameterizes calls talk times and talk spurts Multiple audio analysis tools were developed to assist in the derivation of parameters from data samples taken from relevant space missions Using these tools parameters of probability distributions were fit to data taken from Shuttle/ISS archives 12     n 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


