Abstract 
High-throughput DNA Sequencing and Bioinformatics Bottlenecks and Opportunities Stephen Kwok-Wing TSUI The Chinese University of Hong Kong School of Biomedical Sciences The Chinese University of Hong Kong Shatin N.T Hong Kong kwtsui@cuhk.edu.hk 
With the emergence of high throughput genome sequencers from various companies including 
Applied Biosystems IIIumina and Roche the conventional approach of genomic investigation has been revolutionized and new applications involving these sequencers have been designed and adopted not only in genome centres but also in general laboratories working on biological and biomedical research These genome sequencers are capable 
of generating terabytes of raw data daily  posing a big challenge to various aspects of bioinformatics and computational biology e.g data quality assurance  data storage  cross platform data analysis standards data comparison data annotation and gene network analysis The problem 
will become more prominent when this technology is applicable in areas such as clinical diagnosis and personalized medicine In foreseeable future we believe bioinformatics will be one of the major bottlenecks of the further development of biological sciences In this talk  we present some of the genome 
projects in the Centre for Microbial Genomics of Proteomics of the Chinese University of Hong Kong as examples to unravel the difficulties we come across in the area of bioinformatics Then based on our understanding of the recent development in computational biology possible solutions will be discussed and explored We believe this talk 
can provide useful insights and future research directions for audiences who are interested in bioinformatics and computation biology BIOGRAPHY Stephen Kwok-Wing TSUI IS currently a professor in the School of Biomedical Sciences and the directors of the Hong Kong Bioinformatics Centre and Centre for Microbial Genomics and Proteomics in the Chinese University of Hong Kong Dr Tsui received his B.Sc and Ph.D degrees at the Chinese University 
of Hong Kong in 1985 and 1995 respectively  He joined the Chinese University of Hong Kong as an Assistant Professor in the Biochemistry Department in 1997 In the last 15 years his team had character ized and named more than ten novel human genes He is also a member of the International HapMap Consortium and had been worked on the single nucleotide polymorph isms of the chromosome 3p During the SARS outbreak in 2003 his team was one of the earliest teams that cracked the complete genome of the SARS-coronavirus Totally he has 
published over 70 scientific papers in international journ als including 
comparative genomics and molecular biology of clinical pathogens including human immunodeficiency virus hepatitis B virus influenza virus and 
Besides his team is also working on the identification of human non-coding RNA and the changes in human methylome during cancer progression 
Circulation 
His research interests are in bioinformatics 
 
Nature New England Journal of Medicine Lancet PNAS 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis 
and 


  2 basic steps that should be followed. Section 4 presents a case study showing the effects of the failure mode chosen and the PHM formulation adopted. Section 5 presents the numerical results. The last s ection presents the conclusion and some remarks 2  P ROBLEM D ESCRIPTION  In general, a flight control system is developed to comply with performance and safety re quirements. However, during in-service life, the system tends to degrade, which happens at different rates, mainly depending on the operational conditions. For this reason, it may happen that the Line Replaceable Units \(LRU\of the system fail before the scheduled replacement time. This causes unscheduled stops, logistic problems, higher maintenance costs and loss of profit To address this problem, a PHM methodology dedicated to one failure mode is proposed The failure mode was chosen using a conventional FMECA \(Failure Mode, Effects, and Criticality Analysis\resentative failure mode of an electro-hydraulic system, the clogging of the ElectroHydraulic Servo-Valve \(EHSV\put was chosen The PHM methodology developed in this paper utilizes a mathematical formulation applied on a primary flight control actuator, whose general architecture is presented in Fig. 1  Fig. 1.  Generic Primary Flight Actuator The actuation presented in Fig 1 represents an electrohydraulic primary flight control actuator. The pilot\222s input is converted into electric energy, usually by a linear or rotary transducer The pilot\222s command is processed inside the control module together with flight conditions. The control module generates the input for the actuation system in order to produce the deflection command A typical actuation control-loop is presented in Fig. 2. This is a simplified representation of an electro-hydraulic actuator which is better explained in   Fig. 2. Actuation control loop As shown in Fig. 2, the controller generates an electrical signal. This signal commands the Electro-Hydraulic ServoValve \(EHSV\he actuator causing flow through the valve. The position of the ram is then controlled by the closed-loop configuration abovementioned. The flight control surface position is proportional to the ram position The model of the system includes the control law inside the controller, consisting on a gain schedule based on flight conditions and the difference between the desired and the current ram position. Also, the EHSV is modeled as a conventional two stage jet-pipe valve with incompressible fl The nom i n al m odel was val i d at ed by  experi m e nt al  tests and real data coll ected from a new aircraft 3  P ROGNOSTICS AND H EALTH M ONITORING M ETHODOLOGIES  The approach proposed employs a mathematical dynamic model of the system that is directly tied to the physical process that drives the health of the component Fig. 3 presents the proposed PHM process flow  Fig. 3. PHM process Data pre-processing consists on selecting a period of the flight where there is a co mmand to the flight control actuator. Degradation detection is based on the deviation of EHSV electrical current measurement per the nominal behavior identified by the physical model for that specific flight condition. Fault diagnostic step is the quantification of this deviation, based on fault simulation. A degradation index, which is the quantification of degradation varying failure\and an extrapolation is performed. This extrapolation leads to the remaining useful life \(RUL\he actuator In this work, in order to execute the failure prediction, a model of the clogging evolution is assumed, based on 


  3 typical clogging evoluti As a resul t  a t r end l i n e i s  built up to extrapolate the fault until the failure, giving the mean time to failure and variance according to the data In the PHM design phase, the steps presented on Fig. 4 were followed  Fig. 4. PHM design Steps The first step was modeling the system. The model should be validated with real data. The next steps are described below Fault Evaluation The failure mode implemented was clogging in the output of the EHSV. The fault was implemented in the model of the system related to a severity index Feature Extraction Many comparisons between the parameters measured should be done in order to identify the failure precursors which are the most sensitive parameter that might be identified to detect and evalua te the failure mode accurately One approach is to compare the sensitivities of the parameters in the presence of th e fault. Other approach is to evaluate the correlation between the parameters and the severity index This step leads to a set of pa rameters that can efficiently identify the fault Fault Diagnostic Diagnostics is the process of fault isolation and identification [6 Ho wev er, in th is p ap er j u st o n e fau lt is analyzed, so this step is concerned only with the fault identification. In other wo rds, specifically for PHM purposes, the magnitude of the fault or failure mode due to the fault evaluation is identified based on the residue between the electrical current measured in the system and calculated by the model Failure Criteria For other than total loss of function, the end-of-life definition depends on the app lication. Actuator frequency analysis is one possible source of failure information  Typically, to meet the requirements, the frequency response has to be within specified limits. A general flight control actuator frequency response is presented in Fig. 5 as an example of nominal frequency response of the actuator solid line\rements \(dashed lines Therefore, as the actuator degrades, the frequency response of the actuator tends not to comply with the required limit One possible consequence of th is analysis is that the threshold, which represents the end-of-life, is understood as the maximum clogging allowed such that the system still complies with requirements  Fig. 5.  Frequency response requirements  Prognostics The basic goal of the prognostic step is to estimate the Remaining Useful Life \(RUL\th some degree of certainty. This estimation can be done by several techniques, as mentioned in 8 and [9 In t h i s paper a linear extrapolation of the degradation index is proposed Although a linear extrapolation is a very common mathematical process, if the degradation index and 


10 10 Sensitivity Clogging Percentual Sensitivit   4 parameters are correctly identifie d and the system is close to failure, there would be no significant differences between the techniques of extrapolati  As a result, the confidence inte rval can be calculated using simple statistical tools and the prognostic process becomes quite simple in terms of mathematical formulation The following section presents a specific case study for the clogging failure mode, where prognostic process is illustrated 4  C ASE S TUDY  In this section, the mathematical foundations which generate as final result the RUL are presented Fault Evaluation One way to simulate clogging in the model is to use a time variable flow gain in the physical model. The gain was modeled as 1, representing no clogging, until 0.01 representing 99% of clogging. As a result, the clogging severity index is defined as the complement of this gain \(1gain There are numerous theoretical models of clogging evolution in the literature [10 Th e tem p o r al v ariatio n  o f  the gain was assumed to be an exponential decay, at different rates. The reason is to represent different possibilities of clogging evoluti on. A Gaussian noise was added to the gain in order to represent a more realistic behavior. Ba t h e cl oggi ng fai l u re m ode simulation is assumed suitable for the aim of this paper Although the temporal evolution of the failure mode is continuous, the measurements are taken in discrete instants The mathematical formulation of this model of clogging can be performed by an ARMA model, as presented in \(1 0\0 1  002 c tvtcatc 1 Where c\(t represents the value of clogging in instant t a is the clogging rate a 1 v is a Gaussian noise with zero mean. For simulation, the variance was equal to 0.03 Feature Extraction According to the analysis perfo rmed herein, it can be stated that the parameter which might be related to this fault is the flow. However, this variable is not usually measured in this kind of actuator. Flow sensor implementation might cause additional cost. In order to overcome this limitation, other parameters must be assessed in order to evaluate equivalent degradation information The selection of the most sensitive parameters to clogging is valuable because it can reduce th e sample rate necessary to detect and quantify the fault. In order to give the same information using only the output of the system \(ram position\gher sample rate is necessary  A simple way to determine the most sensitive parameter is to compare the relative differe nce between the integral of the nominal response and the integral of the failed response The comparison between the sensitivities of the electrical current in the EHSV and the ram position is shown in Fig 6                                 Ram Position   Fig. 6. Sensitivity analysis The electrical current in the EHSV demonstrates considerable variation when the actuator begins to clog and this variation is approximately constant. This is reasonable since larger current amplitude is needed to open the valve in order to compensate clogging. On the other hand, the ram position does not vary significantly when the actuator begins to clog. The control loop is designed to make the system follow the command despite faults. To illustrate this behavior, Fig. 7 presents the simulation of the EHSV electrical current residue under three clogging conditions The residue is normalized by the maximum value. As a result, the residue varies from -1 to 1 As can be observed in Fig. 7 the amplitude and the width of the transitory of the electrical current residue vary according to the clogging state. Compari ng the conditions plotted, the larger amplitude and width is for the 60% of clogging condition and the smaller is for 10% of clogging. The difference between nominal and degraded current increases as the system degrades. Ther efore, a residue approach seems to be satisfactory to indicate a degradation trend  0 0 y   5 15 20 25 30 35 40 20 30 40 50 60  EHSV Electrical Current 


 2 Where I represents the integral of the EHSV electrical current of the degraded system during the command and I N  represents the nominal integral   As a result, the non-linear function maps the value of degraded system electrical current integral into a degradation index. This index is linearly related to clogging as depicted in Fig. 8. The correlation achieved was very close to 1, considering the clogging varying from 0% to 40                                   0.4 0 5 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50   5                           0.2 Clogging versus Degradation Index Degradation Index Clogging  Fig. 8  Linear fit A linear regression was computed between clogging and the degradation index based on me thod of least squares and a correlation close to 1 was achieved. The result of the fit is represented in \(3 dfdc 002  3 Where c is the value of clogging d is the degradation value calculated based on the nominal and degraded electrical current \(2 f is the failure threshold, which was defined based on frequency analyses showed in section Failure Criteria This equation is normalized in order to achieve degradation equal to one when the threshold is reached Failure Criteria Threshold estimation must be done to determine the limits of the extrapolation that corresponds to the failure. The frequency analysis is shown in Fig. 9  0.6 10 0 1     0 1 0.2 0.8 10 0.2 10% Clogging  EHSV Current Residue Time \(s EHSV Current Residue \(normalized   0 2 4 6 8 0.4 0.6 0.8 30% Clogging  60% Clogging  Fig. 7. EHSV current residue under different clogging conditions Other approach to evaluate the most suitable parameters to diagnostic the fault is to evaluate the correlation with the severity i The i n t e gral of el ect ri cal current  has a high correlation with the degradation index Diagnostics In order to identify the clogging failure mode variation, the nominal and the degraded EH SV electrical current were compared. Based on these conditions, the integral of nominal and degraded curves we re calculated. Therefore an integral that represents the nominal behavior shall be taken as constant reference to the others integrals representing degraded curves Furthermore, the EHSV was modeled as a non-linear equation and this characteristic allows detecting some other failures not identified a priori This is the case, because a non-linear model usually presents some coupling formulation not presented in a linear equation. In addition anti-cavitation valves formulation is mandatory in a nonlinear formulation, otherwise, for some critical flight conditions, the actuator may be stalled and the model might not be suitabl  Equation \(2\presents a generic non-linear function related to the degradation index d   N IIftd 


212 327\212\261 004 6 where btatd 210 210  210  and  is the predicted degradation index 10 0                   10 0                     6                       30 20 10 40% Clogging 60% Clogging                     150 100 50 40% Clogging 60% Clogging  Fig. 9 Frequency responses fo r threshold determination As illustrated in Fig. 9, the threshold estimated is 40% of clogging, i.e. severity index equal to 0.4. This value corresponds to a frequency response tangent to the requirements in a critical condition Simulated results have shown that phase information does not improve diagnostic performance in this failure mode, as long as the magnitude requi rement is the critical Prognostics Finally, the prognostic is the last step to be accomplished in order to calculate the RUL A linear regression was performed using a linear least squares method to evaluate degradation, as demonstrates 4\The assumption of linear model lies in the fact that close to the failure a straight line could approximate an exponential increase   210 5 Where d 210 is the estimated degradation index and f is the threshold The bounds are calculated assuming a Gaussian distribution of the RUL. Since a linear regression is fitted, the confidence interval of the estimation in a future instant t f is calculated using \(6   tt f f S tt N sNTtd 2  1 12 2  210 40 200 003  btatd  4 Where d is the degradation index t is time a and b are the estimated coefficients and is the estimation error As a result, the RUL is assumed as a random Gaussian variable, and its mean is evaluated when the degradation index reaches the failure threshold, as showed in \(5 fRULd 005 004 1 005 is the confidence coe fficient for prediction 10 1                   10 1                   10 2 10 20% Clogging 10 1                   10 2 Frequency Phase    20% Clogging Nominal Nominal 0 Magnitude Bode Diagram     10 1                   0 


50 30 60 40 10   7 004 is the percentile \(1 20 20 0.4 0.6 0.8 212 212 212  0 1 2   210  2 1 Ni i i tdtd N s is the standard deviation of estimation error 0 0 1 Prognostics: RUL=11.0141 t d\(t   t mean 11.01 t high 17.13 t low 5.06   2 2 212  212 NT 004 2\udent-T with N \226 2 degrees of freedom 10 0.2 Data 212 212 0 1 2  Ni i tt ttS is the variance of past instants t   The existence of a real trend of increase in clogging may be checked with statistical tests. A possibility is using the Ftest or T-test The nul l hy pot hesi s represent s a seri es without a trend, i.e. the angular coefficient a is equal to zero. As a result, the p-value which is related to the probability of the trend being fortuitous or casual, can be evaluate  The following section presents a numerical simulation of the process described 5  S IMULATED R ESULTS  In this section the simulated results of the PHM solution applied on a model of an electro-hydraulic flight control actuator, are presented. The simulation was based on some operational flight conditions for a generic aircraft. The sample rate considered for the parameters was 50Hz, an acceptable trade-off between digital signal accuracy and sensor availability Once the degradation model is evaluated, the health assessment is simple and fast. Given an input in the simulated model, the health monitoring is done by applying 2\ion index is evaluated based on the electrical current in the EHSV of the system compared to the nominal behavior in the same flight conditions The time-to-failure prediction can be calculated by estimation of the future values of the clogging, based on historical series of the original degradation index signal, as shown in \(4 6 Hence, since clogging has a linear relationship with the chosen degradation index, the model of temporal clogging assumed leads to a stochastic process that performs an exponential degradation Fig. 10 presents the degradation trend, with the confidence bounds and the evolution of the clogging model                               Threshold Model  Fig. 10 Linear extrapolation of degradation and clogging model assumed The degradation index d\(t presents a forward trend of values, having Gaussian perturbations. The p-value  calculated is very close to zero indicating that the trend is not casual considering a confidence level of 99 A linear extrapolation was used, considering a confidence boundary of the estimation. The RUL was estimated as 11\2616 days with 90% confidence bounds. The clogging model assumed indicates that the useful life is 7.3 days. The result presented achieves the goal of predicting RUL with precision 6  C ONCLUSION AND R EMARKS  This paper presented a systematic process to design a PHM solution through a model-based approach. Using a mathematical model capable of simulating the desired failure mode, this process demonstrated to be suitable for obtain the RUL. When compared to a strictly data-driven or statistical approach, a model-based formulation applied to an electro-hydraulic flight c ontrol actuator could lead to mo The failure mode studied was the clogging in the output of an EHSV. The direct parameter related to this failure mode is the flow. However, in a real application the cost of flow sensor cannot be justified. By using a validated model, a second parameter giving the same information of flow measure was simple to identify. This parameter was the electrical current through the EHSV. Furthermore, this analysis can help sensor placement for PHM in new projects Using the chosen parameter and comparing it to the nominal response of the model, a degradation index was calculated 212  0 1  1 Ni i t N t is the average of past instants t  


  8 Also, the model was used to define the failure criteria. To do so, the frequency response of the model with different intensities of clogging was calculated and compared with the requirements. The first value of clogging that made the system not comply with requirements was used as the failure threshold For comparison, in a strictly data-driven approach a bench test would have to be implemented to find out which parameters might be measured to give the desired information and component end-of-life A linear regression of the degradation index evolution was calculated. As a result, the RUL was evaluated with confidence bounds Finally, these results show evidence that the use of a detailed and validated model of the system can produce a complete PHM process of good performance. Future steps of this work will validate the methodology A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was supported in part by Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos \(FINEP\razil C. O. Bizarria would like to thank Mr. M. A. O. Alves Jr and Mr. R. R. Starr for their support in this work R EFERENCES    S. Vohnout D. Goodm an, J. Judki ns, M  Kozak, K Harris, \223Electronic prognostics system implementation on power actuator components\224, Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2008  M Roem er A Hess and B. Wu, Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis for Engineering Systems: Methods and Case Studies. Hoboken NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2006  itzgibbon, R. H. K. Galv\343o, T Yoneyama, \223Prognostics and health monitoring solution applied to aeronautic heat exchangers\224, Proc. 11th Joint NASA/FAA/DoD Conference on Aging Aircraft, 2008   C S. B y i ngt on, M W a t s on, D. Edwards, P. St oel t i ng, \223A model-based approach to prognostics and health management for flight control actuators\224, Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2004  5 r au lic Co n t ro l System s New Yo rk  John Wiley & Sons, 1967  J. J. Gert l e r, Faul t Det ect i on and Di agnosi s  i n  Engi neeri ng Systems. New York: Marcel Dekker,  1998  D. S. B odden, N. S. C l em ent s B Schl ey  G Jenney  223Seeded failure testing and anal ysis of an electro-mechanical actuator\224, Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2007 8 em er, C. S. Byi ngton, G. J. Kacprzynski, G Vachtsevanos, \223An overview of selected prognostic technologies with reference to an integrated PHM architecture\224, Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2005  M A. O. Al ves Jr, D. C a bral K. T Fi t z gi bbon 223M odel based failure severity pred iction based on robust residual design\224, Proc. 15th Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation, 2007   A P\351rez-Pari ci o, \223Int egrat e d m odel i ng of cl oggi ng process in artificial groundwater recharge\224, Ph.D. Thesis Dept. Geotechnical Eng., Technical University of Catalonia Barcelona, Spain, 2001  N. R Draper and H Sm i t h  Appl i e d R e gressi on Analysis. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1998  R Iserm a nn, Faul t Di agnosi s Sy st em s  An Int r oduct i on from Fault Detection to Fault Tolerance. Berlin, Germany Springer, 2006  C  Haji y e v, F. C a l i s t a n, Faul t Di agnosi s  and Reconfiguration in Flight Control Systems. Norwell, MA Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2003  M J. R o em er, G. J. Kacprzy n ski E. O Nwadi ogbu G Bloor, \223Development of Diagnostic and Prognostic Technologies for Aerospace Health Management Applications\224, Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2001   M  J R o em er, \223Int roduct i on t o PHM Desi gn Anal y s i s 224 Prognostics Tutorial Track, presented on International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, 2008   K Goebel 223M et hods for M a ki ng Predi c t i ons\224 Prognostics Tutorial Track, presented on International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, 2008     


  9 B IOGRAPHY   Cintia O. Bizarria  is a development engineer for aeronautical systems at Embraer since 2007. She has joined a R&D group to perform research on PHM technology for aeronautical applications. She holds a bachelor\222s degree on Mechatronics Engineering from Universidade de Bras\355lia \(UnB Brazil, and she is currently a graduate student in Aeronautical Engineering at Instituto Tecnol\363gico de Aeron\341utica \(ITA\, Brazil  Takashi Yoneyama is a Professor of Control Theory with the Electronic Engineering Department of ITA. He received a bachelor\222s degree in Electronic Engineering from Instituto Tecnol\363gico de Aeron\341utica \(ITA Brazil, a M.D. degree in Medicine from Universidade de Taubat\351, Brazil, and the Ph.D. degree in Electri cal Engineering from the University of London, U.K. \(1983\. He has more than 250 published papers, has written four books, and has supervised more than 50 theses. His research is focused mainly on stochastic optimal control theory. Prof Yoneyama served as the President of the Brazilian Automatics Society in the period 2004-2006       


 10 Future work is required to address the following LRS items   Need for a second antenna fo r orbiting user navigation and supporting a second Ka zone for roving users beyond 30 km from the Hab   Additional S-band FDMA receiver for Rovers   Reduce router rate from 250 Mbps   Trade to increase size of LR S antenna to reduce surface user burden   Consideration of routing and handovers between LRS satellites and between ground st ations are not discussed at this time and will be part of a detailed relay architecture 7  N ETWORK D ISCUSSION  The concept of using IP as an integration layer is the current standard of systems used on terrestrial networks.  VOIP Hyper Text Markup Language \(HTML\ensible Markup XML\and MPEG are some of the applications, languages and formats using IP.  Below the IP layer the system needs to address protocols and physical layers The physical backbone of terrestrial networks is based on fiber optics, which provides high data rates with low error rate \(10e-14\art routers.  This physical backbone is the basis for successful IP implementation.  Wireless terrestrial networks are limited in distance and connected to a gateway hub with fiber optics for accessing the Internet The Lunar network has several challenges which need to be addressed Space long-haul RF links perform the function of terrestrial networks fiber optics.  Longhaul space links provide 10e-5 BER and require coding schemes to reduce BER.  Coding increases the amount of data transmitted and requires computers to detect errors and correct them.  Convolutional Encoding, Reed Solomon, Low Density Parity Check LDPC\ are commonly used codes.  High data rates and fast computing capabilities require AC power which is a scarce resource in space applications.  \(As discussed earlier, the LCT requires 400 kg and 400 watts The Constellation C3I specification which defines the protocol stack \(described in Figure 11\o communicate with the CEV, specifies using LDPC.  The TDRS SGLTs currently support Convolutional Encoding and Reed Solomon.  Supporting LDPC will require changing out existing TDRS Integrated Receivers \(IR bits”.  The ability to change out over ninety receivers in time to support the first CEV mission is questionable To communicate to the LRS, the LCT or Rovers will be used as gateways to route the IP data using the C3I stack established during the ISS phase \(see Figure 11\ The LAT design has one central LCT and one or two hubs on Rovers The above approach requires a ssets at additional locations beyond the Habitat zone to deploy their own gateway Another item to be considered is the number of available LRS links.  The LRS has a limited number of channels available.  In order for the Lunar architecture to be independent from predetermined Earth scheduling, the LRS requires a mechanism which allows demand access.  A Demand Asigned Multiple Access \(DAMA\over Sband is being considered The lunar surface has some a dvantages that NASA should consider.  The lunar surface has fewer sources of interference than Earth; i.e., no buildings, power lines weather, or other radio sources.  A more detailed future analysis of lunar surface should be performed and the performance of 802.16 to Lunar surface adjusted accordingly based on LRO re sults provided in 2009 Another advantage around the Moon is less spectrum restriction.  Being the only us ers, the Surface-to-Relay can use the assigned spectrum in a more liberal fashion than users on Earth.  For example, S-band users can be allocated bands wider than 5 Megahert z \(MHz\or use more efficient modulation schemes \( 8 PSK instead of QPSK\ to around 10 Mbps over S-band NASA is not the only agency trying to move to an IP in space Netcentric architecture.  The Department of Defense DoD\obile ground troops with voice, data, and images over IP.  For example the DoD Transformational Communications Satellite TSAT\roject will address some of these issues early enough so they can be incorporated in the lunar design  


 11                Figure 11 – Networks Stacks  8  S UMMARY  The development of the Lunar Network Architecture to address the needs of Orbiters, Rovers, and EVA, requiring in-situ navigation, video, and voice capabilities, is an ongoing, complicated task The first step in building the ar chitecture begins today.  The TDRSS 25-year-old ground in frastructure will require extensive modifications to support IP and LDPC.  The introduction of IP will move TDRSS from “bit” service to frame service and put in place similar capabilities to those of the DSN The Earth-based ground stations provided by DSN will be compatible with the TDRSS system provided for the ISS and effectively provide NASA with a seamless network The Surface and Relay network will be based on industry standard IP router and 802.xx protocols.  More work is needed in making IP work in a lunar environment.  The success of IP on terrestrial networks is attributed, to a large degree, to a fiber optics-based backbone and sophisticated routers.  IP applications require high data rates with low errors, which is very challe nging in space.  The long-haul space links – Surface-to-Relay a nd Relay-to-Earth – will be required to provide enough RF power to close the link to support high data rates with over 100 percent overhead associated with coding.  Another challenge is the development of a space-qualified high-rate IP router The use of multiple 802 prot ocols, including 802.11 and 802.16, adds a burden on the architecture that needs to be addressed Rovers and astronauts’ requirements are challenging.  In addition to limited power, there is a need to develop the lunar equivalent of a GPS Although the network architecture required for lunar support is challenging, the LAT concluded that it is achievable and provided details of configurations and costs needed to build the system.  A combination of push-back on user requirements and levera ging DoD work will go a long way to making the architecture possible  Voice prime LCT LRS Ka-band 40/37 GHz 802.16 PHY 802.16 MAC 802.16 Stack IP Mission Control S/ Ka 23/26 GHz EVA DTE Rover Hab  S/Ka 23/26 GHz 2.4-9 GHz  IP Ethernet HDLC Ethernet stack Low Rate SN \(s-band TBD 802.11 PHY 802.11 MAC 802 .11 Stack IP C3I Ka Stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC Ka-band IP LDPC AOS HDLC CEV   SN \(Ka-band S/Ka 23/26 GHz C3I stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC SN \( S/Ka-band C3I stack DAMA Stack 802.16 Stack Voice prime LCT LRS Ka-band 40/37 GHz 802.16 PHY 802.16 MAC 802.16 Stack IP Mission Control Mission Control S/ Ka 23/26 GHz EVA DTE Rover Hab  S/Ka 23/26 GHz 2.4-9 GHz  IP Ethernet HDLC Ethernet stack Low Rate SN \(s-band TBD 802.11 PHY 802.11 MAC 802 .11 Stack IP C3I Ka Stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC Ka-band IP LDPC AOS HDLC CEV   SN \(Ka-band S/Ka 23/26 GHz C3I stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC SN \( S/Ka-band C3I stack DAMA Stack 802.16 Stack 


 12 R EFERENCES   The Space Com m unications Architecture W o rking Group \(SCAWG Communications and Navigation Architecture Recommendations for 2005-2030, October 2006   Lunar Archi t ect ure C o m m uni cat i on and Navi gat i on Study, August 2007   A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This paper uses the Lunar Architecture Communication and Navigation Study as reference m a t e ri al W e woul d l i k e to acknowledge the contribution of the following LAT team members: Jim Schier, Mark Fl anegan, Pat Fink, Biren Shah Joseph Warner, Lynn Anderson, Loren Clare, Avydas Vaisnys, and Todd Ely  B IOGRAPHIES  Jonathan Gal-Edd has been working at NASA since 1994 He is currently the TDRS Ground System Manager for TDRS-K,L.  He also serves as the Mission Engineering Manager for the James Webb Space Telescope \(JWST Jonathan was the Lunar Architecture Ground Segment Manager.  Prior to moving to Goddard Space Flight Center GSFC\ from Johnson Space Center \(JSC\, Jonathan served as the Software Development and Integration Lab \(SDIL Manager for the International Space Station \(ISS\ program He received NASA’s Space flight Awareness Award, a Master in Engineering Science from Loyola College \(2002 and a Master in Business Administration from Tel-Aviv University \(1982 Curtis Fatig is currently the System Engineer for the James Webb Space Telescope Ground System.  Previously, he was the Hubble Space Telescope \(HST\ Servicing Mission Test and Integration Manager.  His team of engineers set up remote Payload Operations Centers, tested the entire ground/space software and communication links used for each HST servicing mission and tested NASA institutional upgrades affecting HST.  He also supports long-term development of new mission ground systems.  He has received NASA’s Spaceflight Awareness Award, Public Service Medal, and many Achievement Awards for these efforts from GSFC, Kennedy Space Center \(KSC\, and JSC He received a B.S. from Salisbury State College in 1978 and a M.Ed. from Rollins College in 1982 Ron Miller is the SCAN Constellation Integration Project SCIP\ Program Manager under NASA’s Space Communication and Navigation Program.  Previous positions include: Lunar Communications and Navigation System Project Manger, TDRS Space Network Deputy Project Manager, Landsat Observatory Manager, Rapid Spacecraft Development Office \(R SDO\ Mission Integration Manager, TDRS 7/HIJ Launch Manager and Formulation Manager for several missions  


REFERENCES 1 Steinberg A 2000 Data Fusion System Engineering International Society of Information Fusion 2]Klein L 1999 Sensor and Data Fusion Concepts and Applications 2nd ed SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham WA 3]Gruber T 1993 A Translation Approach to Portable Ontologies Knowledge Acquisition 5\(2 199-220 4]Boury-Brisset A 2003 Ontology-based Approach for Information Fusion International Society of Information Fusion 5 Martins J and Pinto H 2004 Ontologies How can they be built Knowledge and Information Systems Springer-Verlag London 14 de Weck 0 and Simchi-Levi D 2006 HaughtonMars Project Expedition 2005 Interplanetary Supply Chain Management and Logistics Architectures MITINASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate and Research  Technology Program NASA/TP-2006214196 15 Kobayashi K Munekata F and Watanabe K 1994 Accurate navigation via differential GPS and vehicle local sensors in Proc IEEE Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 9-16 16 Mirabadi A Mort N and Schmid F 1996 Application of sensor fusion to railway systems in Proc IEEE/SICE/RSJ Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 185-192 17 Luo R Chih-Chen Y and Su K 2002 Multi-sensor Fusion and Integration Approaches and Future Research Directions IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 2 No 2 pp 102119 6 Van Heist G Schreiber A and Wielinga B 1997 Using explicit ontologies in KBS development Int J Hum Computer Stud 46\(2/3 pp 183-292 7 Guarino N 1998 Formal ontology and information systems In Guarino N ed Formal ontology in information systems IOS Press Amsterdam pp.3-15 8 Wald L 1999 Some Terms of Reference in Data Fusion IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol 37 No 3 9 Waltz E and Llinas J 1990 Multi sensor Data Fusion Artech House Norwood MIA 10 Bowman C 2004 The Dual Node Network DNN Data Fusion  Resource Management DF&RM Architecture AIAA Intelligent Systems Conference Chicago 11 Hall D and Llinas J 1997 An Introduction to Multisensor Data Fusion IEEE Proceedings Vol 85 No 1 12 Russell S and P Norvig 2003 Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach 2nd ed Pearson Education Inc New Jersey 13 Lin G et al 2005 Transforming the military through sense and respond IBM Business Consulting Services White Paper IBM Global Services Somers NY BIOGRAPHY Atif Mirza is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton He specializes in corporate strategy and operations advisory for clients in the Global Aerospace and Defense Practice Prior to joining Booz Allen Mr Mirza was a graduate student at MIT where he was a System Design and Management Fellow in the Engineering Systems Division He holds a joint SM degree in Engineering and Management from MIT/Sloan and a BEng with Honors in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Edinburgh Scotland 13 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


