   JIANG Hai-bing School of Geographic and Oceanographic Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China haibingjiang1@gamil.com   XU Jian-gang, CHEN Jun-ting 
School of Geographic and Oceanographic Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China xjg129@sina.com chjt12@gmail.com   Abstract 227 The distance and retail store attraction have effect on consumer shopping action. Recently most relative quantitative modeling study on retail location did not simultaneously consider those factors including traffic network, traffic grade, store attraction and competition based on GIS. This paper aims at 
these shortages and attempt to integrate above factors and make quantitative analysis about large scale shops based on accessibility method, breaking point laws and GIS technique  The result indicates that accessibility of large scale supermarket in Shanghai central city is good, the west of city is better than east. Shops\222 market region areas in near out ring are greater. Trade areas between inner loop and middle loop are smaller. Market size near out loop and inside inner loop is 
greater. Market scale of between inner loop and middle loop is smaller  This study can make urban planner know about retail network layout. Managers can quickly understand the shop trade areas and provide the consult for choosing shops location Keywordsspatial accessibility; breaking point laws; large scale supermarket; trade areas delimitation I   I NTRODUCTION 
  Managing trade areas is an old marketing problem and a major concern for retail and service firms, especially with the development of retail and service networks. According to Ghosh and McLafferty \(1987 h e t r ade area i s 221 221 t h e geographic area from which the store draws most of its customers and within market penetration is highest\222\222. In the 1980s Chinese retail location studies emphasized particularly on applying the Central Place Theory to research on the center 
business district market area i n ce 1990, i n v e st i g at e measures tend to became diversified which include model analysis and GIS techniques such as Voronoi diagram and behavior means to delimit reta il trade areas [3-6 countries, many new methods were use to delineate store trade areas including empirical methods such as the analog method, the statistical methods such as the regression method and clustering method, and theoretical methods such as the gravity models and some new methods such as higher-Order 
and Multiplicatively Weighted Voronoi Diagrams and morphological analysis[7-8  O t he r c o unt r i e s 222 ur b a n geography researchers do forepart investigation toward spatial accessibility. In 1959 Hansen firstly brought forward the concept of accessibility which defined the number of interactive opportunity among the traffic network node Relative researchers carried out the argument and survey toward the different type community service facilities widely and deeply [9ecen tl y C h i n es e relati v e res earc h es  
mainly lay emphasis on the accessibility of community service facilities based on GIS spatial analysis[15-16  According to above-mentioned study, so far most of spatial analysis method about retail facilities accessibility and trade areas delineating adopt homogeneous Euclidean distance and buffer methods which neglect the effect of road network and 978-1-4244-4639-1/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 


grade. Some studies consider the scale factors or the road network which didn’t involved road grade factors  This article analyzes spatial accessibility of stores and delimits trade areas based on GIS spatial techniques and breaking point laws. These methods takes into account the traffic network, road hierarchy, the natural conditions and competitive factors which can more comprehensively simulate realistic retail location elements. The main contribution of this paper is to extend the existing trip cost analysis methods and to combine the store attractive factor weighed with traffic condition to delimit the trade areas by incorporating an additional assumption that customers select stores on the basis of distance and attractiveness. Since such a result is more consistent with real trade areas, we contend that the model we introduce represent improvements over the existing methods. This study takes the large scale supermarket in Shanghai central city for example and mainly falls into two parts. On one hand, calculate supermarket accessibility. On the others, delimit trade areas based on breaking point laws  II   T HE R ESEARCH METHODS  A  The Trip Cost Analysis Method By this method we can acquire the supermarket’s accessibility and visual trade areas. There are lots of accessibility calculating ways  We select the trip cost analysis method which applies network distance from the nearest store to residential spots. Compared with other methods which employ Euclidean distance, the trip cost analysis method has obvious advantages, however does not consider their attractive factors. This article applies ARCGIS software to organize the urban spatial data and social-economic property data which include supermarket spot data, water areas surface data, road line data and street administration property data in study areas Then employ the trip cost analysis to acquire the shortest time analysis map. The specific principle lies in the preference [1   B  Breaking Point Laws and Accessibility Evaluation Index In general breaking point laws are used to delimit the trade areas among stores. The breaking point laws basic principle the attractiveness of shop is Proportional to passenger traffic capacity and negatively correlated with time distance. This laws originate from William Reilly, Law of Retail Gravitation\(1929\the progressive development includes P. D Converse \(1949\aws and Applebaum laws\(1966\nd Gasa laws. Gasa laws come from Converse law \(breaking point formula\.                  The formula for    A B AB B S S 1 T T 2 Where T B is the time from city B to breaking point T AB is the shortest travel time from city B to city A and S A  S B for the two city scale or attraction, which refers to business areas in this paper. We obtain formula 3 from formula 2 B B A A S T S T  3-1  N N C C B B A A S T S T S T S T          3-2 Formula 3-1 only may calculate one breaking point between two shops, formula 3-2 can get lots of breaking point which can converge into trade boundaries among many shops Spatial accessibility refers to convenience degree of the use of a specific transport system from a given retail location to other residential location, which refer to time cost in this paper. So we define accessibility evaluation formula for facilities by using shortest time. Accessibility evaluation index  min ij i T M A j  4 where i as anyone point in the region T ij as shortest travel time from any point i in the region to store j by traffic network M j as weighted of store shortest time. In this article, I take business area S as store weighted A i as accessibility of anyone point. This formula is based on the assumption that consumer always go to the most proximate store by the most convenient traffic ways. At last we can get formula 5 from formula 3 and formula 4  min j ij i S T A  5 We demonstrate the formula 5 by GIS spatial techniques based on the trip cost method. Specific methods are included in part three III   T ECHNICAL ROUTE  A   The Study Area and Data Origin The Study area: In this paper, the scope of the study refer to Shanghai central city district \(shanghai city overall plan 


definite for 1999-2010\. That is in the outer ring \(A20 highway\ which area is approximate 667.8km2. In this paper the region within the outer ring is called the Center City District Data Source: Shanghai Commercial Net's City Center 75 big scale supermarkets spatial and attribute data in 2005, road spatial data \(Road grade\ in 2002, the main water system map and the Fifth National Census data of 128 street administrations in Shanghai Center City B  The Accessibilities Classification and Trade Areas Visualization Based on Trip Cost Analysis The trip cost analysis could determine the shortest weighted distance. Based on cost-weighted distance method principle accessibility calculation process as follows  Step 1  determine velocity of grid  At first, we define cost time through 10 kilometers by different traffic way as the reference value. Formula for  60 10   cos   V time t where V refers to velocity of different spatial objectives. We determine the velocity of each grade’s road according to average velocity in study areas. If there is no road or trail, use walk model that V is set for the average walking velocity of 4km / h. If there is the road, the different velocity is set based on road grade. Set express road velocity as 40km/h major road velocity as 30 km/h, subordinate road velocity as 15 km/h \(tab 1\. At last we assign a default value of 10 m 10 m to one cell for ensuring the accuracy of research  average trip Velocity km/h  Express road  Main road  Subordinate Road general road 40 30 15 10 Cost 15 20 40 60 Average trip Velocity km/h  No road  Huangpu River  Wu song  River Other river 4    Cost 150 1500 1000 500   Step 2 calculate accessibility and generate the accessibilities’ classification layer Firstly, we integrate all cost layers by overlaying and produce cost grid layer \(fig. 1\. Secondly combine cost grid layer with spatial spot layer of all the supermarkets Furthermore use cost weighted distance method to calculate accessibility. Then we obtain accessibility grid layer. At last the accessibility grid Layer is reclassified into 6 grades and generate accessibilities’ classification map \(fig. 2  Step 3 delimit trade areas and calculate trade volume base on store size weighted  Firstly calculate every supermarkets separately accessibility grid layer, 75 piece of accessibility grid layers are generated by repeatedly using step 2 method. Secondly separately add store size weight according to formula 5 to the 75 sheet of grid layer. Thirdly all separate weighed layers are overlaid by minimum value way in GIS and acquire trade areas delimitation map \(fig. 3\. Fourthly transform trade areas delimitation grid layer into vector layer, then combined with population density of every administrative unit who live more than half year in 2000\(fig. 4\, trade volume layers can be obtained. Finally we can calculate every store’s serve population and visualize them by map IV   A NALYSIS OF THE RESULT                  A  Analysis of Accessibility Result Accessibility classification grid layers are converted into vector layer in order to obtain accessible area value in different time interval and accessible area analysis table \(table 3 Combined figure 2 with table 3, we can conclude that             Tab 1 relative time cost consult on different filed types 


accessible area from 5 to 15 minutes occupy the largest proportion in central city. In 15 minutes, accessible areas account for 65 percent of central city area. In half hour accessible areas account for 93 percent of central city area. In sum, accessibility of supermarket in this district is better                   B  Analysis of Trade Areas Delimitation Result With the help of ARCGIS software and techniques method and breaking point laws, visual trade areas can be realized Judged from Figure 3, this method takes into account the spatial competition, network traffic conditions and the gravity of store scale. Most realistic factors simulation simultaneously makes the result closest to realistic store trade areas   trade areas spatial characteristic analysis  As far as the store trade areas are concerned, the outlets have the largest trade areas that located in central business district and nearby the outer ring. Nearby the inner ring lie the smallest trade areas outlets, especially in the north-west and south-east, more dense distribution. The outlets who have highest market size locate nearby outer ring and central business district. The mainly outlets which have lowest market size locate in the vicinity of the outside of inner ring especially in the north-west and south-east \(fig.3 V   C ONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION  This study applies GIS spatial analysis techniques to accessibility and trade areas of supermarket in Shanghai. By visualizing the results, it directly reflects supply and demand situations in different regions. Regions with weak accessibilities are identified to evaluate problems in commercial distribution. This method can provide the basis for road planning and selection of retail locations Accessibility in the down town area of Shanghai is generally good. The west part of the city has a higher accessibility value than the east part. Regions with larger trade areas are located in central business district and near the outer ring of the city while along the inner ring, regions with small trade areas are distributed as several clusters at the north-west and south-east It also suggests that intensely competitive market regions and weak competitive areas are co-existing  Although our research suggests that we provide more effective methods toward trade area definition, several problems will be explored. This method only begins from supply angle and don’t considers the demand too much purchasing ability and residential trip habits from consumers too much References 1  Ghosh, A., McLafferty, S.L,Location Strategies for Retail and Service Firms. Lexington Books, Reading, Mass. 1987 2  Ning yue-min , “An Approach to shopping centre location of shanghai s urban area”, acta geographica sinica, vol.39, pp.163-172, 1984 3  Xu Xueqiang, Zhou suhong,Ling Geng, “The Locational analysis of guangzhou s large retail emporia”, City planning review,vol.7.pp.23-28 2002 4  Xue Ling, Yang Kai-zhong , “Spatial planning of commercial allocation in haidian district in beijing based on spatial interactive models”. Geographical research,vol,24,pp.265-273, 2005 5  Yang wuyang, “The Retailing and services center and network of beijing then, now and long before”, acta geographica sinica vol.49,pp.9-17. 1994 6  Cai yanwei, “A Study On Activity Space of Shopping of Shanghai Residents:Temporal and Spatial Characteristics and Relative Influencing Factors”,Economic geography,vol "28,pp.221-226. 2008 7  Barry Boots, Robert South, “Modeling Retail Trade Areas Using Higher-Order, Multiplicatively Weighted Voronoi Diagrams”, Journal of Retailing ,vol.4, pp.519-536,1997 8  Je´roˆme Baray,Ge´rard Cliquet, “Delineating store trade areas through morphological analysis”, European Journal of Operational Research,vol. 182, pp.886–898,2007 9  Cole K J, Gatrell A C. 1986. Public Libraries in Salford: A geographical Analysis of Provision and Access. Environment and Planning A, vol.18, pp.253-268   Pacione M. “Access to urban services- the case of secondary schools in Glasgow. Scottish Geographical Magazine”, vol.105,pp.12-18,1989   Fortney J, Rost K, “Warren J. Comparing alternative methods of measuring geographic access to health services”, Health Services and Outcomes Research Methodology, vol.1, pp.173-184. 2000   Talen E. Pedestrian , “access as a measure of urban quality”, Planning Practice and Research, vol.17  pp.257-278, 2002   Mark F G. “Spatial accessibility of primary care: concepts, methods and challenges”, International Journal of Health Geographics vol.3,pp.1-13,2004   Billie G C, et al. “Increasing Walking: How Important Is Distance To Attractiveness, and Size of Public Open Space”, American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol.28,pp. 169-172. 2005   Qi yi,Xu Jiangang, “The Public facilities planning analysis based on spatial accessibility grid model  Innovation and development of gis forum -2006 college essays,2006   Kong Yunfeng, Li Xiaojian ,Zhang Xuefeng, “Analysis of spatial accessibility for school redistricting in rural china:a case study of the secondary schools in gongyi city,henan province”, Journal of remote sensing,vol12,pp.800-808, 2008   Wang Xin-sheng, Yu Ruilin, Jiang You-hua, “Delimitating the store market field based on the metric of the city-block distance”,geography research.vol.27,pp.85-97,2008 


243.197X002 andChld 5 Fiue3 N aae 1 h C Show reionmaagd y hid1 43:70 


Figuire 4 GNS Manager GUI Shows legion lmanaged by Child 2 243.158:7002 Figtre 5 Map-Based GUTI for Information Disseinnation Manager IDM 6 


Figu e 6 Message Composition lIterifce fbo IDM Fi;gutre 7 iAQ-based GeoTIDeS Mobile Client 7 


REFERENCES 1 E Guttman C Perkins J Veizades and M Day Service Location Protocol Version 2 Internet Engineering Task Force RFC 2608 June 1999 2 T Imielinski and J Navas GPS-Based Addressing and Routing IETF RFC 2009 Experimental Category Nov 1996 BIOGRAPHY Dr Ranga Ramanujan received his PhDEE from the University of Iowa in 1985 Between 1985 and 1989 he was employed at Honeywell Systems and Research Center where he led research efforts in distributed computing and fault tolerance for military applications He joined ATC in 1989 and currently serves as its Chief Technology Officer He has served as the PI of over 15 research efforts sponsored by agencies such as DARPA the US Army the U.S Navy U.S Air Force U.S Coast Guard NSF and NASA Dr Ramanujan led the research effort to develop the Satellite Data Exchange SDX secure messaging system for the US Coast Guard Following successful productization this system is currently operational on the USCG fleet of small and medium cutters He was one of the architects of ATC's TCP-Tactical solution for the DARPA Control Plane program that yielded dramatic performance improvements over TCP Dr Ramanujan has served as the PI for three different DARPA programs in the networking area that produced successful technology prototypes some of which have been leverages by other efforts at ATC He has served on the program committees of the 2002 ACM Workshop on Wireless Security the 1997 International Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems the 1996 and 1997 Heterogeneous Computing Workshops and the 1987 Real Time Systems Symposium Dr Ramanujan has published over 30 technical papers in the areas of computer networks and distributed computing E  Ben Burnett is an R&D engineer at Architecture Technology Corporation ATC He received his BSCS from Iowa State University in 1999 Since joining ATC in 2000 Mr Burnett has focused on developing distributed network monitoring visualization and test tools research and development in distributed agent systems advancing wireless data communications development of custom and COTS software into commercial products and software design and implementation Mr Burnett has two patents and another pending for his work in distributed network monitoring and recombination and his work with network traffic and flow mimicking using events and triggers Clint Sanders is an R&D engineer at Architecture Technology Corporation ATC He obtained the BS degree in Computer Engineering from Iowa State University in 1999 Since joining ATC in 2000 Mr Sanders has focused on application development for networking solutions which include TCP stack alterations creating application servers proxies and routers He implemented key components of the GeoTIDeS prototype system presented in this paper 8 


L f l Dr John Wu received his Ph.D from the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne U K in 1990 He has a over 17years of experience in jjg~~~Jj the research and development of distributed system to provide anautomatedand applications intelligent systems databases and Intemnet technologies At ATC Dr Wu has led several R&D efforts including the development of an Agent-Based Active Network ABAN system to provide an automated and intelligent information dissemination service for more effective communications under rapidly changing warfighting environments ABAN aims to enhance the Army's Future Combat Systems with seamless flow of secure context-aware and personally adapted information wherever and whenever the warfighter needs it The success of the project was recognized with a nomination for the Army's 2005 SBIR Quality Award ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Kevin Millikin and Sanjukta Roy made key contributions to the implementation of the GeoTIDeS prototype Their contributions are gratefully acknowledged 9 


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


