Reliable On-Demand Geographic Routing Protocol Resolving Network Disconnection for VANET  Zhigang Jin School of Electronics and Information Engineering, Tianjin University Tianjin, China Ningxiao Yan Dept. Computer Engineering Tianjin University Tianjin, China Li Bing Dept. Computer Engineering Tianjin University Tianjin, China Abstract  High mobility of vehicular node which is one important feature of VANET makes high dynamics of 
topological structure for vehicular network, leads to frequently disconnection of multi-hop route in ad hoc network, and brings big challenges to reliability of routing algorithm and quality of data transmission. Thus we propose position-based routing algorithm for VANET called on demand geographic routing ODGR\, which suits for highway scenarios. ODGR uses two new mechanisms to make sure information about positions of the destination nodes and neighbors valid and accurate when choosing next hop, and finally guarantee the reliability of 
routing algorithm: \(1\uses two independent messages to realize update of position information about the destination 2\ses the idea of on-demand to build the neighbor table. We compare the performance of AODV and ODGR using network simulator NS-2, with a specialized node mobility model simulator called VanetMobiSim to produce realistic vehicular movement trace. The final results prove that: on the highway, when node moves with acceleration of 4.9m/s 2 and at max speed of 50m/s, ODGR outperforms AODV by a factor of 1.7 Key words vehicular ad hoc network, position-based routing 
on-demand, multi-hop route, node mobility model I  I NTRODUCTION  Vehicle Ad hoc Network \(VANET\s distributed self-organizing communication network built up by moving vehicles, and is thus characterized by very high mobility of nodes and limited degrees of freedom in nodes movement patterns. Communication between vehicles could improve traffic safety for drivers and passengers. As a result of the high dynamics, routing of data in VANET is a challenging task. By now, the routing protocols proposed for VANET can be classified into two categories: the topology based and 
the position based. Ad hoc On demand Distance Vector routing protocol \(AODV\ [1 d Greed y P e ri m e t e r Stateless Routing \(GPSR y pical repres en tat i v e s f o r them. However, both have shortcoming in the state of the high mobility. Much cost will be taken on establishing and maintaining the routes in AODV. Moreover, the convergence rate of route algorithm affects the quality of the data transmission seriously. The greedy forwarding may cause the problem of local maximum. Furthermore GPSR doesn\222t consider affection brought by the movement; the location service mechanism is very complex  In this paper, we propose a position-based protocol 
suiting for the case of VANET in highway environment called On Demand Geographic Routing \(ODGR\ differs from other routing protocols in two characteristics which solve the problem of inexact position brought by high mobility: \(1\ Using two substantive messages mechanism to maintain the destination position information, the first one is transferred  between destination node and its neighbor nodes, the second one is transferred during the nodes except for destination node. \(2\nstructing neighbor list with on demand idea, that is, the node applies for constructing neighbor list when it needs to access neighbor list, which can decrease the loading and th e inaccuracy caused by high 
mobility and constructing neighbor list initiatively The researcher of Nanjing University studied the position-based protocol used for VANET in d discussed the exiting problems. In 2007, Jiang Hao et al. in Wuhan University started researching transmission control protocol in VANET d prop os ed t h e obj ect i v e an d t h e  design elements of transmission control protocol in VANET At present, the topology based and the position based routing protocol are mainly used for VANET. National research institutions of VANET routing protocol mainly concentrated in these two kinds of routing, and verified their research findings through a large number of experiment 
The remainder of the paper was structured as follows In Section 2 we introduced the ODGR algorithm. The five messages were described in Section 3 and the simulation results and analysis were shown in Section 4. Finally section 5 concluded our paper II  O DGR A LGORITHM  The basic idea of ODGR is this: When the node needs to forward data packet, it will select the node nearest destination node from the neighbor list in real time ODGR algorithm is unique in: \(1\ uses two independent messages to update the destination node 978-1-4244-3693-4/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 


location information of each node; \(2\ draws on the AODV’s on-demand idea to establish neighbor list to ensure the timeliness of the information in neighbor list. The purpose of ODGR using these two properties is to ensure that the location information of destination and neighbor node is accurate when the routing is constructed, thus improve the quality of data transmission In VANET, we can deploy additional electronic equipment in the vehicle nodes GPS receiver. In this way each node can obtain their own location coordinates through their equipment and GPS positioning system A  The management of destination node location ODGR uses two independent messages to update the destination node location information storing in each node The message transferred between destination node and its direct neighbor nodes: Destination node periodically broadcasts query message which records location information of its direct neighbor The message transferred among other nodes excepting destination node: other nodes broadcast dstInfo message to their neighbor nodes regularly to make the message storing in the nodes uniform Fig. 1 shows the node location information management mechanism in ODGR. Firstly, destination node D broadcasted query message to tell its neighbor A, H, I and J its location information. Then node A sends dstInfo message to its neighbor K, L, M to tell them the destination node location information    Figure 1  Two message mechanisms in ODGR Two independent message mechanisms in ODGR algorithm can play a role when network partition appears. If the scenario as Fig. 2 appears, node A, X, Y and Z can also exchange destination node location information by sending dstInfo message to each other    Figure 2  Node distribution at a time  B  The management of neighbor list In ODGR algorithm, each node adopts message passing mechanism to set up a neighbor list, which lets one node maintain the neighbor node location information In ODGR, each node sets up a temporary neighbor list in real time when they have data to send  The method setting up neighbor list in ODGR is obviously different from that in GPSR protocol which sets up it by neighbor nodes sending HELLO messages actively and this method can ensure the information in neighbor list a newest one. So ODGR algorithm doesn’t exit the problem resulting from the inaccuracy due to the untimely information in neighbor list as the GPSR protocol C  Retry mechanism The retry mechanism in ODGR is triggered when the greedy forwarding doesn’t find suitable next-hop. The retry mechanism is operated in accordance with the following two stages: \(1\ly increasing reserved time to wait for setting up the neighbor list. \(2\ Sending new neighbor request message to rebuild neighbor list totally  D  Algorithm flow The whole algorithm includes four parts: Greedy forwarding; management of destination node location information; management of neighbor list; retry mechanism Greedy forwarding inherits the idea of position based routing algorithm. In the other three parts, ODGR has distinction with previous algorithm specifying the fast-moving characteristic of VANET network. The flow as following Fig. 3  Figure 3  The four parts of ODGR OGDR algorithm firstly gets neighbor list information and destination node location information from the module of “neighbor list management” and “destination node location information management”, which will be used by greedy forwarding” module; then, “greedy forwarding decides next-hop based on this information. If greedy forwarding failed, retry mechanism started III  O DGR M ECHANISM  A  Destination node location information request message Destination node location information request \(dstreq is broadcasted as the method AODV sending routing request Destination node will start sending its location updating information and updating the destination node location information of each node when it receives the request 


message struct hdr_odgr_dstreq  u_int8_t type;     // Message type int id;           // Destination node number int length;        // Message length  Destination node location request message is represented by struct hdr_odgr_dstreq, as shown above B  Destination node location updating message Destination node location updating message \(query message\smitted between destination node and its direct neighbors. The message is used to update the destination node location information of its direct neighbor nodes. The dstInfo message mentioned as follows transmitted between other nodes helps this message spread in the whole network struct hdr_odgr_query u_int8_t type;       // Message type float x;            // Node abscissa float y;            // Node ordinate float timestamp;    // Timestamp int length;         // Message length  Destination node location updating message is represented by struct hdr_odgr_query, as shown above C  Interactive destination node location information Interactive destination node location information dstInfo message\smitted during other nodes excepting for destination node. It makes the destination node location information in each node up to date through exchanging destination node location information maintaining in each node struct hdr_odgr_dstinfo u_int8_t type;         // Message type int id;               // Node number float x;              // Node abscissa float y;              // Node ordinate float timestamp;       // Timestamp int length;        // Message length  Interactive destination node location information is represented by struct hdr_odgr_dstinfo, as shown above D  Neighbor request message Neighbor request message \(NREQ message\nd neighbor response message \(NREP message\ following are used to set up neighbor list by one node  The node having data to send broadcasts NREQ message to its direct neighbors when it will set up neighbor list, and the neighbor nodes will unicast a NREP message to this node when they receive NREQ message It is represented by the struct hdr_odgr_nerq as follows struct hdr_odgr_nerq u_int8_t type;       // Message type int length;          // Message length  E  Neighbor response message Neighbor response message \(NREP message\s unicasted to the request node when a node receive NREQ message. NREP message that a node sends includes its own location information. It is represented by struct hdr_odgr_nrep as follows struct hdr_odgr_nrep u_int8_t type;       // Message type float x;            // Node abscissa float y;            // Node ordinate int length;         // Message length  IV  S IMULATION R ESULTS A ND A NALYSIS  A  Simulation settings In this paper, we simulate our algorithm in NS-2[5 d  evaluate its performance. We measure the impact of AODV and ODGR on the network throughput and the packet loss rate in different scenarios We use VanetMobiSim [6-7  t o ge ne r a t e no d e  m o vi n g  scenario as follows Fig. 4  Figure 4  The scenario used in experiment In our scenario, there are 30 vehicle nodes located in a 


10000*300 square meters area. Each node moves with acceleration of 4.9m/s² until it reaches the max speed of 50m/s. In our simulation scenario, there exists CBR flow which synchronously runs from 50 to 550 seconds with packet size of 256 bytes and interval time of 0.25s; each node’s maximum transmission power is set as 0.2818w, and coverage is 250m. The simulation time is 600 seconds B  Throughput comparing ODGR with AODV We use the numbers of data packets successfully delivered in 600s simulation seconds to show the throughput   Fig. 5 presents the throughput result. We can see that the throughput of ODGR is larger than that of AODV. In different moving scenarios, the throughput of AODV and ODGR has similar fluctuation trend, however, ODGR shows smaller amount of fluctuation than AODV   Figure 5  The throughput transferring data between different nodes in the same scenario C  End-to-end packet loss rate comparing ODGR with AODV Fig. 6 shows the result of end-to-end packet loss rate AODV’s rate is between 2.4% and 9.35% when transferring data between the eight different pairs of node. However, the rate of ODGR is between 0.6% and 2.65% when the data is transferred in any pair of node  Figure 6  Packet loss rate transferring data between different nodes in the same scenario Obviously, we also can see that, in different moving scenarios, AODV incurs significantly higher end-to-end packet loss rate than ODGR. The gap between them is approximately 2-7 times D  Performance analysis conclusion Through comparing the throughput and end-to-end packet loss rate of ODGR and AODV, we can see that ODGR is more suitable for a highway environment than AODV. ODGR has small fluctuation when any pair of node transfers data To sum up for the Internet multimedia applications of VANET in highway environment, ODGR’s data transferring performance is better than that of AODV while vehicle nodes move at speed of limit 50m/s, acceleration 4.9m/s V  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, a new position-based routing protocol ODGR is proposed for highway vehicular communications ODGR features the novel use of node location information to resolve the unreliability caused by the fast-moving nodes The experiment results have proved that ODGR can supply high-quality data transmission even though vehicle nodes are moving on highway at speed limit of 50m/s, acceleration 4.9m/s Since ODGR is a position-based routing protocol proposed based on the special demand of VANET, it suits for highway environment and exits high delay problem. If ODGR algorithm is used in other applications of VANET such as, security alarm, it should be improved to reduce the delay VI  A CKNOELEDGEMENT  This research was supported in part by the Tianjin NSF Project \(grant No. 08JCYBJC14200\d the National High Technology Project of China \(863 grant No 2007AA01Z220\he authors will thank Shi Xue for her help. We would thanks also to Qingfen Pan for helpful language and grammar R EFERENCES  1  Perkins C, Belding-Royer E, Das S. Ad hoc on-demand distance vector \(AODV\ routing [EB/OL   http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3561.html 2003-7 2  Karp B, Kung HT. GPSR: Greedy Perimeter Stateless Routing for Wireless Networks[C Proceedings of the sixth annual international conference on Mobile computing and networking\(MobiCom 2000 Boston: ACM Press, 2000: 243-254 3  Keqin Zhou, Yuxu PengA study of Ad hoc network for VANET[J   Data Communications, 2004, \(4\: 42-45 4  Lijia  Chen, Jiang Hao, Wu Jing et al. Research on Transmission Control on Vehicle Ad-Hoc Network [J o ur nal o f S o f t w a r e 200 7  18\(6\: 1477 1490 5  Leiming Xu, Pang Bo, Zhao Yao. NS and Network Simulation   Beijing:People’s Posts and Telecom Press, 2003 6  VanetM obiSim_1_0_manual[EB/OL   http://vanet.eurecom.fr 2007 7  Baumann R. Engineering and simulation of mobile ad hoc routing protocols for VANET on highways and in cities[D w itz e r l a nd  Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, 2004              Traffic flow between 8 different node groups \(n=30, a=4.9  N etwork throughput \(number ODGR AODV           Traffic flow between 8 different node groups n=30,a=4.9 End-to-end packet loss rat ODG R AODV 


 The range of the table can be adjusted in case two atoms are placed in same position Rendering with converted data is much faster than the raw data for as operation on integer numbers are more efficient than floating-point operations  5.2. Compression ratio and Outcomes  After compression, the size of the data file is cut down from 10,468B to 6,192B. In another word, the compression ratio is about 1.69:1. Though the compression ratio is not notable, the impact of avoiding floating-point calculations is obviously important to embedded system It has been our major concern that the image of energy height will have distorted colors and the 3D rendering of molecule structures will also be distorted From our experiments, most of time, the difference is unnoticeable and the rendering results are very close to the ones without compression. If you change the image and the structure into a big one, some small differences can be seen. Figure 7 demonstrates two energy height images and Figure 8 shows the 3D rendering results of two molecular structures. The left ones are results without data compression while the right ones are the ones using compressed data   Figure 7  The comparison of the original image \(Left and the compressed image\(Right    Figure 8  The comparison of original model\(Left and the compressed model\(Right  6. Rendering Acceleration  Rendering original data files can be a heavy burden for many embedded devices. The problem was caused not only by the computing capability but also by the size of cache. We solve the problem in following ways Most people take a ball as the appearance of an atom without any doubt about that. In fact this opinion has been proved yet. Furthermore, when the device can not support the user interactivity with perfect ball model face reduction is an efficient compromise. If the model is displayed in a small screen like mobile phone, even an icosahedrons looks like a ball An experiment is made on an intelligence mobile phone Blackberry 8700G. With the original rendering method, only 4 pictures per minute can be displayed That is when user tries to rotate the model, only discontinuous pictures are displayed. When the icosahedrons are adopted, it displays 20 pictures per minute while the atoms look very similar as shown in Figure 9   Figure 9  The comparison of using different precisions: The left pict ure shows the rendering result using face reduction and the right one shows rendering results wi thout face reduction  Different configurations can be chosen in the option panel according to the device configuration Although face reduction is more focused on the limitations of the computing capability, it also has effects on other limits of the embedded device. With proposed solution, the rendering of large data files become affordable to most embedded device  7. Conclusion and Future Work  In this paper, we introduce the improvements made for the mobile users who want to experience the webbased tool, CT-IANP. It demonstrates that visualization can be well applied to mobile devices In the future, more researches are needed in rendering algorithms and other related technologies Considering the size of the data, more data analysis functionalities supported by data mining technologies are worthy for further exploration Furthermore, we expect that this paper will be a trigger for further related researches   


8. Acknowledge  The authors would like to thank Professor Ilja Siepmann from the University of Minnesota, Samuel Keasler, Hyunmi Kim, and Ricky Nellas from the Louisiana State University at Baton Rouge, and the anonymous reviewers for their useful comments and suggestions  9. References  1 R D i ng J  G a o, B  C h e n J  I  Sie p r m a nn, Y  L i u. W e bbased visualization of atmospheric nucleation processes using Java3D. Cluster Computing and the Grid, 2009 CCGRID `09, 9 th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on 18-21 May 2009 Page\(s\:597-602  2 I. J. G r i m ste a d N. J A v is a nd D. W  W a l k e r  A u tom a tic  distribution of rendering workloads in a grid enabled collaborative visualization environment. In SC '04 Proceedings of the 2004 ACM/IEEE conference on Supercomputing, page 1, Washington, DC, USA, 2004. IEEE Computer Socienty  3  He inz l re ite r, D Kra n z l m u lle r, a n d J Volk e r t. Ne tw ork  transportation and optimization for gri-enable techniques Neural Parrallel Sci. Comput., 12\(3\:307-328, 2004   K En gel O S o mm er an d  T  Ertl A f r a m e w o r k f o r interactive hardware accelerated remote 3d-visualization. In proceedings of Vissym 2000, 2000  5  VR ML 9 7  inte r n a t i ona l s p e c i f i c a tion is o/ie c is  14 77 21   1997  6 C h unFa C h a n g  G a r y B i s hop a n d A n s e lm o L a s t r a L D I  tree: A hierarchical representation for image-based rendering In Proceedings of SIGGRAPH 99, page 291-298, Los Angeles, California, August 1999   A rsi V azi ri a n d M a rk Kre m en et sk y  Bi su al i z t i o n an d tracking of parallel CFD simulations. In proceedings of HPC 95. Society of Computer Simulation, 1995  8 H ug ue s H o ppe r   P r og r e s s i ve m e s h e s I n C o m pute r  Graphics SIGGRAPH 96 Proceedings, pages 99-108, 1996 9 O  H e ndin  N  J o h n a nd O  Shoc he t. Me dic a l v o lum e  rendering on the www using vrml and java. In Proceedings of MMVR’97, 1997  10 I  T  Fos t e r G l ob us to olk i t v e r s ion 4: Sof t w a r e  f o r  service-oriented systems. In NPC, pages 2-13, 2005  1 I T  F o st er C Kessel m an  a n d S  T u ecke T h e an at o m y of the grid-enabling scalable virtual organizations. CoRP cs.AR/0103025, 2001  12 L  Fr e ita g a nd R  L o y  C o m p a r is on of r e m o te visualization strategies for interactive exploreation of large data sets. In Proceedings of IPDPS 2001,2001  1 J S h al f an d E  W  Bet h el  T h e gri d an f u t u re visualization system architectures. IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, 23\(2\:6-9, 2003  14 K  L Ma a nd D  M C a m p H i g h pe r f or m a nc e visualization of time-varying volume data over a wide-area network. In Proc. of Supercomputing, 2000 15 A C o m p a r a tiv e Study of A c c e l e r a tion T e c hnique s f o r  Geometric Visualization; Pasc ual Castelló; José Francisco Ramos; Miguel Chover; Computational Science, ICCS 2005  1 ccel erat i o n t echn i qu es f o r G P U-b a sed vo l u m e  rendering; Kruger. J.; Westermann. R.; Visualization. 2003 VIS 2003. IEEE; pages 287-292  17 J  D i n g  J  H u a n g  M  B e c k  S  L i u  T   M o o r e  a n d S   Solteesz. Remote visualization by browsing image based databases with logistical networking. In Proc. of Supercomputing 2003  18 A Stre a m ing Ba se d Soluti on for Remote Visualization of 3D Graphics on Mobile Devices; Lamberti, F; Sanna, A Visualization and Computer Gr aphics, IEEE Transactions on pages 247-260  19  3D v i s u a liz a tio n of d a ta on m obile de v i c e s  Mosmondor.M; Komericki. H; Pandzic. I.S;Electrotechnical Conference, 2004. MELECON 2004. Proceedings of the 12th IEEE Mediterranean; pages 645-648  2 G  Ji  H  W  S h en and J G a o  I n t e ract i v e exp l o r at i o n o f  remote isosurface with point-based non-photorealistic rendering. In Proceedings of IEEE Pacific Visualization 2008, 2008  21 J  G a o  R  D i n g  Y  L i u  B  C h e n   X  C u i J  S i e p m a n   Web-based Visualization and Analysis of Atmospheric Nucleation Processes. International Journal of u- and e Service, Science and Technology. Vol. 2, No. 2, June 2009 


  7  Figure 4 compares drive time blue line\ run time \(red line\for K10 Red.  On June 9, drive time and run time are nearly equal, indicating that the robot was driving during most of the duty period as expected.  On June 10 and 11 however, the drive time is significantly less than the run time, indicating that the robot was stationary roughly half the time it was running.  This mismatch can indicate performance problems, either due to increased robot down time or robot wait time between plans.  An inspection of events during these days indicates the robot did experience problems on both days.  On June 10, communication difficulties and low lighting resulted in reduced rover performance.  The wait time between plans was between 30 and 50 minutes, which is much longer than on June 9.  On June 11 the rover base controller had problems and the site terrain impacted traversability, both of which impacted the rover's ability to complete plans in a timely manner Figure 5 compares distance trav eled by the K10 Red rover to the planned distance.  An inspection of this figure indicates a limitation in using accumulated total distance as a metric.  By the end of the test, K10 Red had traveled 2375 meters, which agrees well with the planned distance of 2235 meters.  A comparison of planned distance to distance traveled for each duty cycle, how ever, reveals that the rover traveled further than planned on June 9, which masked the fact that the rover traveled less than planned on June 10  Figure 5. K10 Red Distance at Moses Lake There were significant problems with the quality of data communication to JSC for remote science operations on June 10 and 11, indicated by the high data gap count on these days. On June 10, there were 54 gaps ranging from 10 seconds to 53.5 minutes and on June 11 there were 65 gaps ranging form 10 seconds to 54 minutes. The reduced data quality affected the accuracy of the performance metrics computed remotely for K10 Red on these days K10 Black Performance K10 Black performed systematic site surveys in support of simulated science operations on June 12. A typical site survey performed by K10 Black consisted of navigating through a sequence of waypoints while taking GPR readings continuously. Often microscopic images were taken at waypoints as well. During the day of survey operations at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, the K10 Black robot was powered up for 5.67 hrs \(Run Time\and drove for .64 hrs \(Drive Time\or 11.3% of the time it was powered up Figure 6\Drive Time was lower than expected due a combination of GPR hardware problems and navigation problems due to inaccurate odometry in the sand at the survey site. K10 Black attempted to execute four science plans for a total planned distance of 776 meters \(Planned Distance\ actually traveled a total of 838 meters Completed Distance\ perform these survey activities Figure 7  Figure 6. K10 Black Operating Time at Moses Lake  Figure 7. K10 Black Distance at Moses Lake 


  8 The quality of data communication to JSC for remote science operations on June 12 was much better than that on the two days prior. There were a total of 5 gaps, ranging from 10 seconds to 30.75 minutes. These data gaps did not have a significant effect on th e accuracy of the performance metrics computed remotely for K10 Black 5  D ISCUSSION  The Role of Context Understanding the intent of rover activities provides an important basis for grounding the computation and interpretation of performance metrics. In particular, we assert that metrics, whether us ed for real-time monitoring or post-processed analysis, can only be interpreted in context  i.e., with respect to expect ations of performance for a particular task, activity plan, robot mode of operation, etc For example, the computation of Percentage Distance Complete \(ratio of Completed Distance to Planned Distance\requires constraining the computation of Completed Distance to be performed only while K10\222s plan is executing and to be reset to zero when a new plan is uplinked. Similarly the computation of metrics during autonomous operations should be distinguishable from metrics during teleoperation because expected performance can be quite different in these different control modes Finally, the computation of metrics during anomalous operations should be separa ble from nominal operations The rover may be successful at recovering from a problem while doing less well at achieving nominal mission objectives. In some cases, a me tric needs to be computed concurrently in more than one context For example, it is useful to accumulate Comple ted Distance for each plan distance traveled within a pl an\entire mission \(total distance traveled Another example is that the accuracy of real-time performance computations de pends upon the quality of the communication with the robot. We used the Data Gap Count as an indicator of communication quality during the field test at Moses Lake. While useful, this count does not represent information about the duration of communication problems. Based on our experience at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, we have identified a new metric for communication quality. We propose to compute the percentage of the duty period without data from the robot \(called Percentage Time in Data Gap\ as a measure of the quality of metrics, since a high percentage would indicate lossy communication and reduced confidence in the com puted values of performance metrics Real-time Displays During the test we identified and implemented a number of new features for the dashboard displays in response to operational needs. These feature include \(1\a user-initiated snapshot of all computed values we later expect to add the ability to restore the state of the computation engine to this checkpoint state, \(2\ogging of time-stamped user comments \(called user events pect to display user events in the timeline disp lay, and \(3\o the value of constants in the dashboard displays without restarting the computations. We also added new dashboard displays of rover data during the test. These displays provide information about the rover that aids in understanding performance \(i.e., execution status of planned tasks, robot subsystem status\add these new displays indicates the flexibility and extensibility of our architecture for performance monitoring Duty Periods During the HRS field test at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, we computed metrics whenever data were being transmitted from the rover. We did this to ensure that metrics reflected all rover activities. We expected that the value of metrics at the end of each day would then provide a summary of the day\222s activities. This resulted, however, in the computation of metrics during time periods when the rover was not intended to be operating \(e.g lunch periods, waiting for a demo, etc\e-based metrics such as Run Time and Drive Time were computed at times when the rover was not intended to be powered up or moving. This resulted in inflated Run Times \(see Figures 4 and 7\and artificially reduced the ratio of Drive Time to Run Time We believe a more realistic assessment of performance should constrain the computation of metrics to time periods when the rover is intended to be performing tasks. We define a concept called a duty period that corresponds to a contiguous interval of operations \(such as from rover startup in the morning until a planned ground control break period\We propose to compute accumulated metrics only during duty periods in future tests Technology Deployment at NASA The evaluation of our performance monitoring software during robotic field tests has provided useful feedback on the utility of the proposed metric s.  In particular we have gained valuable experience in using such metrics when data are subject to periodic dropouts We recently evaluated the use of our performance metrics during an analog test of rover reconnaissance as a precursor to planning astronaut EVAs where we got feedback a bout the utility of metrics for flight operations.  There is remaining work, however, before this technology can be operationally deployed A variety of data types are used by the real-time performance monitoring of robots.  These data types have correlates in current NASA operations, including spacecraft telemetry, Comps \(combinations of raw telemetry\anning information, and flight rules.  Deployment of performance 


  9 monitoring technology in flight operations will require that such information be captured electronically and made available for computer-based reasoning.  Recent efforts to move flight products like Sp ace Station activity plans and attitude timelines into XML supports this objective and future programs are investigating standards for representing such information, but current NASA programs have not yet achieved the level of information integration that will be needed to automate performan ce monitoring as described in this paper The availability of real-time performance data raises the possibility of using this data to adjust operations for improved performance.  Such real-time performance management has become a consideration for commercial plant operations as plant automation is introduced.  Often the barriers to real-time performance management are as much cultural as technical In a recent article \(Spiegel 2007\t was observed the adjustment of plant operations by the enterprise has met strong resistance due to mutual mistrust between plant operators and corporate Information Technology departments.  Such barriers are also a possibility when introduci ng real-time performance management into NASA operations 6  F UTURE W ORK  Assessing Performance Based on Expectations An important result from this test is an approach for improving the interpretation of performance metrics. Prior to the test, we established performance expectations from robot task plans \(called plan performance\Satisfactory performance was defined as the achievement of planned targets \(e.g., successful completion of planned tasks or collection of planned samples\ion of robot performance during the test made it clear there are other considerations in defining satisfactory performance The limits imposed by robotic hardware and software design define expectations about the robot\222s engineered performance. Engineered performance defines robot capabilities under ideal circum stances. Robot operations however, often occur under less than ideal circumstances which can constrain maximum speed and sensor accuracy The limits imposed by the environment in which the robot operates define expectati ons about robot operational performance. Engineered perform ance also can be degraded over the course of multiple missions due to normal component wear as well as systemic problems that reduce performance The limits imposed by component use and subsystem problems define the expectations about robot degraded mode performance. Robot operations can be further constrained by flight rules. Maximum robot speeds may be reduced when operating near other robots. Or, certain robot behaviors may be precluded when operating near humans The limits imposed by the flight rules established for a mission define expectations about safe performance Moreover, when comparing robot metrics over multiple duties periods or missions \(called historical performance\or comparing the performance of different robots, it is important to establish a basis of comparison that identifies which of these performance dimensions predominate and how these dimensions combine to establish performance expectations, such as: Did robotic hardware or software change between missions? And were the robots being compared operating under the similar operational constraints Summarizing Performance We are currently preparing to use our real-time performance monitoring software to support a test of science operations at NASA Ames Research Center in November 2008. Based on our experience at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, we have identified a few key metrics that should provide a high-level summary of rover performance. These metrics will be displayed on a summary Web page for operational use. We will summarize rover performance from the following three perspectives 200  Mission: metrics that describe the rover\222s contribution to the mission. The Work Efficiency shows the ratio of rover productive time to rover overhead time. When WEI exceeds 1.0, the rover is spending more time accomplishing mission objectives than performing other activities. The Percentage of Time on Task shows the ratio of rover productive time to total operating time 200  Science: metrics that describe the rover\222s performance with respect to the scie nce plan. The Percentage Distance Complete summarizes the percentage of the planned distance that has been traveled by the rover The Percentage of Tasks Complete describes the percentage of planned tasks successfully completed 200  Rover: metrics that describe the rover\222s health and status. We detect when personnel intervene in rover operations to handle anomalies, and we compute the Mean Time to Intervene a nd the Mean Time between Interventions We also plan to compute the Percentage Time in Data Gap as a measure of the quality of computed values, since a high percentage indicates lossy communication and a lower confidence in metrics To illustrate how we expect this information to summarize performance for mission managers, consider the following example based on data collected by K10 Red at Moses Lake on the afternoon of June 11, 2008. In this example, we 


  10 played back recorded data into our performance monitoring software and took a screen shot of the Ops Synopsis dashboard display partway through the run \(Figure 8 this situation, the rover is executing a science plan to perform reconnaissance of the Moses Lake Sand Dunes. At the time of the screen shot, the rover has spent 59% of its time on planned tasks for a WEI of 1.446. This indicates the mission is going reasonably well, since WEI is greater than 1.0 and the rover is spending the majority of its time on planned tasks. The science metrics indicate good progress is being made on data collection, requiring the rover to drive 326 meters to complete 70% of the plan. The rover metrics indicate minimal unintended human intervention, with MTBI \(00:39:10.7\gnificantly greater than MTTI 00:02:01.2\The Percentage Time in Data Gap is zero indicating that metrics are based on all available robot data and are thus considered reliable  Figure 8. Example of Summary Metrics for Mission Manager  7  C ONCLUSIONS  Our performance computation so ftware operated reliably for over 46 hours during a four-day period. Task performance metrics computed for the K10 robots during the field test include robot drive time, robot run time, and performance during plans \(e.g., percentage of planned distance completed, percentage of planned samples complete\We measured the number of times we lost signal from the robot at the simulated Mission Control as a measure of the quality of our real-time metrics. Based on these results, we conclude that our proposed approach for computing and displaying rover performance metrics in real-time is viable 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was funded under NASA\222s Small Business Innovative Research \(SBIR\ program, Topic X7.02 HumanSystem Interaction and supported by the NASA Exploration Systems Technology Development Program \(ETDP Human-Robotic Systems \(HRS\. We wish to thank Dr. Matthew Deans and Dr. David Lees of the Intelligent Robotics Group at NASA Ames Research Center for consulting on the definition of the metrics used for the test at Moses Lake Sand Dunes 


  11 R EFERENCES    and Fran cesco Amigoni, \223On Evaluating Performance of Exploration Strategies for Autonomous Mobile Robots,\224 Workshop on Performance Evaluation and Benchmarking for Inte lligent Robots and Systems Proceedings, IEEE Internati onal Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, September 26, 2008  Jacob C r andal l M i chael Goodri c h, Dan Ol sen, Jr., and Curtis W. Nielsen, \223Validating Human\226Robot Interaction Schemes in Multitasking Environments\224, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics\227Part A Systems and Humans, Vol. 35, No. 4, July 2005  H. Depol d, J. Si egel  and J Hull, \223Metrics for Evaluating the Accuracy of Diagnostic Fault Detection Systems\224 IGTI Turbo Expo, June 2004  ann, "KA 1 10 Benchmarks for Robotics Research," European Robotics Network \(EURON\IST2000-26048, April 24 2004  A. St ei nfel d, T. Fong, D. Kaber, M Lewi s, J. Schol t z  A Schulz, and M. Goodrich, \223Common Metrics for HumanRobot Interaction,\224 2006 ACM Conference on HumanRobot Interaction. March 2004   T Fong, M B u al at M Deans, M Al l a n  X Bouyssounouse, M. Broxton, L. Edwards, R. Elphic, L Fluckiger, J. Frank, L. Keely, L. Kobayashi, P. Lee, S. Y Lee, D. Lees, E. Pacis, E. Park, L. Pedersen, D Schreckenghost, T. Smith, V. To, and H. Utz, \223Field Testing of Utility Robots for Lunar Surface Operations, \223 AIAA Space 2008, AIAA-2008-7886. September 2008  M i ke Gernhardt, W o rk Effi ciency Indices. Presentation at Johnson Space Center. November 15, 2005  e b Toolkit http://code.google.com  webtoolkit   Tol g a Kurt ogl u Ol e J. M e ngshoel and Scot t Pol l A Framework for Systematic Benchmarking of Monitoring and Diagnostic Systems,\224 2008 International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management Proceedings October 6-9, 2008  ile http://code google.com/p/simile-widgets  D. Ol sen and M  Goodri c h 223M et ri cs for Eval uat i ng Human-Robot Interactions,\224 Proceedings of NIST Performance Metrics for Intelligent Systems, Sep 2003  SAE \(Soci e t y of Aut o m o t i v e Engi neers t h  and Usage Monitoring Metrics, Monitoring the Monitor\224 SAE ARP 5783, February 2008  Abhi nav Saxena, Jose C e l a y a  Edward B a l a ban Kai  Goebel, Bhaskar Saha, Sankalita Saha, and Mark Schwabacher, \223Metrics for Evaluating Performance of Prognostic Techniques,\224 2008 International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management Proceedings October 6-9, 2008  Edward Tunstel, \223Perform ance M e trics for Operational Mars Exploration Rover,\224 Journal of Field Robotics Volume 24 Issue 8-9, 651 \226 670, September 2007   H. A. Yanco, J. L., Drury and J. Schol t z B ey ond Usability Evaluation: Anal ysis of Human-Robot Interaction at a Major Robotics Competition," Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, Volume 19, 117\227149 2004   J. Arnol d, \223Towards a Fram ework for Archi t ect i ng Heterogeneous Teams of Humans and Robots for Space Exploration\224, M.S. Thesis, Dept. of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2006 17] Lane Desborough and Ra ndy Miller, \223Increasing Customer Value of Industrial Control Performance Monitoring -- Honeywell's Experience,\224 Sixth International Conference on Ch emical Process Control Jan 2001  J.W Hi nes and E. Davi s, "Lessons Learned from  t h e U.S. Nuclear Power Plant On line Monitoring Programs Progress in Nuclear Energy, Volume 46, Issues 3-4, 2005 pp 176-189   Henry  X Li u, W e nt eng M a Xi nkai W u and Heng Hu 223Development of a Real-Time Arterial Performance Monitoring System Using Traffic Data Available from Existing Signal Systems,\224 Minnesota Department of Transportation Technical Report MN/RC 2009-01 December 2008   R ob Spi e gel  223C onnect i ng Sensor Dat a t o t h e Boardroom,\224 Automation World, March 2007 B IOGRAPHY   Debra Schreckenghost is a Senior Scientist with TRACLabs in Houston, TX. She is Principal Investigator of the NASA Phase II SBIR developing a soft ware framework for inline monitoring of robot health and performance. Previously she has led projects developing adjustable autonomy software for monitoring and control of crew life support systems and personal ag ents for distributed space 


  12 operations. She has published over 70 technical publications in the areas of adjustable autonomy, architectures for intelligent software agents, and human-computer interaction. She received a BS in electrical engineering from the University of Houston and an MS in electrical engineering from Rice University Terrence Fong is the director of the Intelligent Robotics Group at the NASA Ames Research Center. Prior to this, he was the deputy leader of the Virtual Reality and Active Interfaces Group at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne. Fong has published mo re than fifty papers in field robotics, human-robot inter action, virtual reality user interfaces, and parallel processi ng. He received his BS and MS in Aeronautics and Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his Ph.D. in Robotics from Carnegie Mellon University  Tod Milam is a Research Scientist with TRACLabs, Houston, TX.  Previously he was a Senior Software Engineer at Lockheed Martin Space Mission Systems Services, working on traffic management systems, as we ll as software for Mission Control Center at Johnson Sp ace Center. He began working with TRACLabs in 2000 and was a key developer of TRACLabs' Distributed Collaboration and Interaction System, providing intelligent agents for human-automation interaction in mission operations.  He is currently the lead developer for a NASA Phase II SBIR on developing software for in-line computation of robot measures of performance. Mr. Milam received his Bachelors degree in Computer Science from Drake University in 1988 Estrellina Pacis is a Project Manager at SPAWAR Systems Center, Pacific where she has been developing unmanned systems for the past 6 years. Mrs. Pacis has led numerous projects focused on the development integration, and testing of autonomous behaviors for military applications. Her current focus is on the study of robotic mapping and exploration techniques suitable for supporting dismount troops during urban operations Hans Utz is a Mobile Robot Software Architect for the Research Institute for Advanced Computer Science \(RIACS working with the Inte lligent Robotics Group at NASA Ames Research Center \(ARC work is concerned with the development of advanced software architectures for autonomous mobile robotics Before joining NASA ARC, he was a PhD student at the Dept of Neuroinformatics, University of Ulm, Germany. He designed the robotics middlew are Miro and coached the Ulm Sparrows, a project on "autonomous mobile robotics in highly dynamic environments", which is probably better known as robot soccer.  He has a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Ulm, Germany 


  13  


  14 B IOGRAPHY  Capt. Chris Badgett is a System Engineer for the STP-SIV at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. He previously served as developmental engineer at Air Force Research Laboratory Munitions Directorate working on a weapon data link and F-16 small munitions dispenser. He has a B.S.E.E. from University of Tennessee and an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STP-SIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology Mike Hurley is the Spacecraft Development Section Head at NRL in Washington DC. Mr. Hurley has helped shape and implement ORS and TacSat experimentation since 2002. Beginning April 2003, he was Program Manager for the Secretary of Defense\222s \(OSD\ ORS initiative, as well as the Principle Investigator for Office of Naval Research\222s \(ONR\ TacSat Innovative Naval Prototype \(INP program. In 2005 he received the DOD Civilian Meritorious Medal for his work in ORS and TacSat experimentation. He is an engineering graduate of Virginia Tech and holds an M.B.A. from George Mason University  Paul Jaffe is an electrical engineer and the Integration and Testing Section Head at the Naval Center for Space Technology at NRL. He has worked on NASA and DOD space missions, including Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory STEREO\ and TacSat-1. Recently he developed standards and led spacecraft computer hardware development for TacSat-4 as part of the DOD ORS effort He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University Hallie Walden is an Advanced Systems Manager at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. She worked as the STP-SIV Capture Manager and as the Deputy Program Manager from program inception through the Preliminary Design Review. Prior efforts include thermal, fluids, and thermodynamic analyses and design for Ball Aerospace, Lockheed Martin, and AlliedSignal \(now Honeywell\. She holds B.S.M.E and M.S.M.E. degrees from Stanford University  Alan Lopez is currently a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. in Boulder CO since 2005. He received his undergraduate degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois and began working at TRW in Redondo Beach, CA in 1985. After completing his M.S.E.E. degree at the University of Southern California in 1990, he began working at Hughes Space and Communications in El Segundo, CA  Mike Pierce is a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. He is the Chief System Engineer for the STP-SIV program and wrote the STP-SIV PLUG. Prior efforts include system modeling and simulation, mission operations, and mission design working for Spectrum Astro \(now General Dynamics\ and the USAF At Spectrum Astro, he was a key member of Discover II Space Based Infrared System\( SBIRS\ Low and Near Field Infrared Experiment \(NFIRE\ programs. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder  David Kaufmann is Program Manager for STP-SIV at Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp He also served as Program Manager for DARPA Orbital Express NextSat Commodity Spacecraft program. He previously served as a Thermal Engineer at Hughes Space and Communications Co. in El Segundo, CA. He holds a B.S. from Stanford University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in Mechanical Engineering 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


