The Empirical Research on the Relationships between Perceptions of Organi zational Practices and Psychological Contracts Using Knowledge Employees as Research Participants  JIE LIN YIN Economics & Management Institution Beijing Information Science & Technology University Beijing, China yinjielin0924@sohu.com XIN WU Economics & Management Institution Beihang University Beijing, China wuxin@buaa.edu.cn  Abstract 227This research examines the relationships between conceptions of organizational practices \(POS, LMX, and perceived meaning of work\ and psychological contracts 
transactional, balanced, and relational\ using knowledge employees as research participants. We test the hypothesized relationships using hierarchical regression analysis with data from a sample of 452 knowledge employees from several big cities of China. The results show that POS, LMX and perceived meaning of work are all positively related to balanced psychological contract and relational psychological contract respectively, and perceived meaning of work is negatively related to transactional psychological contract, and neither POS nor LMX is related to transactional psychological contract 
Keywords- POS; LMX; perceived meaning of work transactional psychological contract; balanced psychological contract; relational psychological contract I   I NTRODUCTION  Since the notion of psychological contract between employer and employee has gained currency as a means of understanding changes in the employment relationship [1   psychological contract ha become increasingly important in helping to define the contemporary employment relationship 2  P s y c ho lo gi ca l co nt ra ct s  co ns i s t o f t h e be l i e f s e m p l o y e e s  
hold regarding the terms and conditions of the exchange agreement between themselves and their organizations [3   Although psychological contracts were first discussed by organizational scholars in the 1960s, only recently have these unwritten work agreements attracted widespread attention Recent research on psychological contract has generally focused on two areas. First, a number of articles have discussed the changing nature, contents and the types of the psychological contract. Second, another line of research has investigated the antecedents and negative consequences of psychological contract breach \(or violation\ on employee 
attitudes and behaviors. There is little attention given to the antecedents of different types of psychological contracts except some scholars\222 scattered works [4-6 A s to the  r e s e a r c h  participants, there is no researcher to focus on knowledge employees by far. In the era of knowledge economy knowledge employees are the most important resources of organizations. Therefore, studying issues related to knowledge employees has great practical meanings. Our paper aims to contribute to the psychological contract literature in the following area: investigating the relationships between perceptions of organizational practices and psychological 
contracts using knowledge employees as research participants II  P SYCHOLOGICAL CONTRACT THEORY  Psychological contracts are an individual\222s beliefs regarding reciprocal obligations in an employment exchange relationship [7 h e s e be l i e fs ar e b a s e d o n  a n i ndi vi d u al 222s  perceptions that promises have been exchange and accepted by both parties. The psychological contract is found to serve as an important regulator of employer-employee relationships [7, 8   Emerging empirical research suggests that the type of relationships that individuals perceive they have with their 
employer have important consequences for how the individuals contribute to those relationships [9  Rousseau proposed two key facets that would help distinguish forms of psychological contract: time frame and performance requirements. Rousseau used these two facets to develop four types of psychological contract: transactional relational, balanced and transitional. She operationalized the framework in Psychological Contract Inventory \(PCI  Transactional contract refers to short-term or limited duration employment arrangements, primarily focuses upon economic or monetary exchange. In contrast, relational contract 
 involves a mutually satisfying relationship with openended arrangements that include socioemotional as well as Sponsored by Project of Beijing Owned Colleges and Universities\222 Science and Technology Innovation Platform, Talents Strengthen ing Education Plan Beijing Emphasized Built Subjects and Beijing Knowledge Management Research Base and also sponsored by national science and tec hnology support plan subject \226 Research and Development on Technology Information Service System of Manufacturing Industrial Clusters 978-1-4244-4639-1/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 


economic terms  based upon mutual trust and loyalty. The third type, balanced contract, consists of an open-ended relational emphasis with the transactional feature of well-specified performance-reward contingencies and it is sometimes referenced as a type of “hybrid” psychological contract [11  Balanced contract expresses employee’s identification with his/her profession [6 A s to t r a n sit i o n a l  c o nt ra c t  R o usse a u  indicated it was not a psychological contract, which could be viewed as a total breakdown of an agreement between the employee and his/her organization reflecting the consequences of organizational change [10 A c co rd i ngl y  t r a n s a c t i o n a l   relational, and balanced contracts represent important types of psychological contract in employment situations Studies have confirmed the types of psychological contract assessed in the PCI in the United States, Singapore [10  L a t i n  America [12 an d C h in a  1 3   A d d iti on ally L e e et al   1 4  examined whether transactional, relational, and balanced contract types were relevant in China by formulating their own measure with the help of representatives from Hong Kong and the United States although they did t use the PCI. The findings of Lee et al. indicate the three forms of psychological contract in both countries and are consistent with the notion that contract types have similar meanings across the two cultures. Based on above empirical researches, our study intends to use PCI to operationalize the psychological contract III  SELECTION OF ORGANIZATIONAL ANTECEDENTS  From the definition and formation of psychological contracts, we can see that cognition plays a very critical role Lewis, Goodman and Fandt define cognition as “the way that people experience, process, and interpret things around them   T h eref ore, w e con c lu de th at e m plo y ee s  con ceptio n s  of  organizational practices will influence their psychological contracts. Here we call conceptio ns of organizational practices as organizational variables As we all know that, in the era of knowledge economy knowledge employees, as carriers of knowledge, have greater choice about which they want to work for, resulting in organizations competing for knowledge workers rather than knowledge workers competing to join a particular organization  O r g a n i zat i ons adopt s o m e n e w  m e t h ods t o t r eat t h i s  k e y  group which are different from those to treat ordinary employees in order to retain and encourage them Organizations strive to make knowledge employees realize how organizations care and pay attention to them from aspects of welfare, supervisor’s support, procedural justice and so on As we all know that knowledge employees work in a team or a group generally. They establish some kind of collaborative relationship with their team leader or supervisor and the functions of team leader or supervisor are coordinating guiding and serving which are different from those of ordinary ones’. Besides, meaning of work itself is very important for knowledge employee which is a vital factor that knowledge employee needs to consider when deciding to leave or stay the organization Based upon above analysis, we can see that knowledge employees are very different from ordinary employees on aspects of perceived organizational support \(POS\eadermember exchange \(LMX\nd perceived meaning of work Thus, we select these three variables as organizational-level variables which differentiate knowledge employees from ordinary ones IV  H YPOTHESIS  The concept of POS was first presented by Eisenberger and his colleagues in the 1980’s, which suggests that employees form global beliefs regarding the value that organization places on their well-being and contributions Th is  conception has two key points. One is employee’s feeling about whether organization attaches importance to his contribution. The other is employee’s feeling about whether organization cares his welfar plo y ee s  u s e P O S  to  express their perceived commitments which come from the organizations. Organizational supports are able to satisfy employees’ socio-emotional needs From the above discussion, we can know that POS shows the relationship based on respect and trust between employee and organization. The higher the levels of POS are, the more positive that employees evaluate the organizations and the more positive information that employees selectively pay attention to. Thus, high-level POS make employees feel that the relationships between the organization and them are not just based on economic exchange but based on social exchange POS expresses the positive affections of employees to the organization and shows employees’ affirmation to the cares and respects of the organization. According to reciprocity principle of social exchange theory, employees will have the sense of obligation to concern the organization’s welfare Their responsibilities to the organization are not limited in the scope of job prescription. They will take on more responsibilities for the development of the organization and have affective attachments to the organization. Accordingly we give the following hypotheses   Hypothesis 1a. POS is negatively related to transactional psychological contract   Hypothesis 1b. POS is positively related to balanced psychological contract   Hypothesis 1c. POS is positively related to relational psychological contract The leader–member exchange \(LMX\ theory was developed by Graen and his colleagues in 1972 and it denotes the quality of the relationship between an employee and the employee’s immediate supervisor [18  T h e rel a ti o n sh ip s th at le a d e r s  develop with subordinates have been described on a continuum At one extreme are subordinates who are part of the “in-group In-group membership is characterized by a high degree of mutual trust, respect, and obligation [18  A t  th e o t h e r ex t r e m e  are the subordinates who are part of the “out-group”. Out 


group membership is characterized by low trust, respect, and obligation [18   According to Levinson’s opinion, employees often treat the actions of their direct supervisor as the personification of the organization’s commitment to them [19 Hig h q u a lity L M X makes employees perceive what the organization pay for them and experience the extensive responsibilities that the organization takes on based on individual development and affection beyond written contracts. In accordance with reciprocity, responsibilities that employees feed back are not just in the prescription of written contracts. Employees will take on more extensive responsibilities based on socio-emotion for the development of the organization. Hence, the higher the quality of LMX, the more extensive responsibilities that employees perceive what they take on. Therefore, we hypothesize that   Hypothesis 2a. LMX is negatively related to transactional psychological contract   Hypothesis 2b. LMX is positively related to balanced psychological contract   Hypothesis 2c. LMX is positively related to relational psychological contract Perceived meaning of work refers to employee’s perception to his/her work target and the value of the target according to his/her value system and standard. It is one of the most emphasized aspects by knowledge employee [2   Liden, Wayne & Sparrowe suggest that employees will appreciate the organization and their identifications attachments and loyalties to the organization will be increased if the organization makes employees to sense the meaning of work [21 A c c o r d in g t o th e i r o p in i o n  w ith th e in c r e a se  o f  meaning of work, employees are willing to take on more responsibilities which exceed the scope of specification. Based on above analysis, we propose the following hypothesis   Hypothesis 3a. Perceived meaning of work is negatively related to transactional psychological contract   Hypothesis 3b. Perceived meaning of work is positively related to balanced psychological contract   Hypothesis 3c. Perceived meaning of work is positively related to relational psychological contract The hypothesized relationships are showed in Figure 1       Figure 1  The hypothesized relationships V  M ETHOD  A  Participates In this paper, the following two factors are considered when operationalizing knowledge employees: \(1\asks employees assigned are finished mainly in the office and \(2 employees must gain bachelor or above degrees Data were collected through a questionnaire survey distributed to 600 employees of some high-technology companies according with above requirements from several cities of China, including Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou Guangzhou, and Shenzhen. In order to ensure the authenticity of responses, the questionnaire takes the form of anonymity. Out of the 600 employees surveyed, 432 employees completed the survey, a response rate of 72 percent. The sample was 39.5 percent female, 59 percent were under 30 years of age, 5 percent were over 40, 98.7 percent were graduates and above, the average total tenure was 5.8 years \(SD 002 4.16\ and the average tenure of the current job was 3.9 years \(SD 002 3.46 B  Measures All measures used a 5-point Likert type scale response format \(1=strongly disagree to 5=strongly agree\. The reported psychological contract was measured with the revised Psychological Contract Inventory developed by Rousseau which represented the three psychological contract types of transactional and balanced, relational [1 24 i t e m s w e re included \(4 items for transactional contract, 10 items for balanced contract, and 8 items for relational contract\ POS was measured using the 8-item simplified measure developed by Eisenberger 000\003 Cummings, Armeli and Lynch [17  LM X  w a s  measured using the 7-item measure developed by Scandura and Graen  P e r c e i ved m e a n i ng o f w o r k w h i c h i s a  d i m e nsi o n  of psychological empowerment was measured using the 3-item measure developed by Spreitzer [2   VI  R ESULTS  Before testing the hypotheses, we examined the internal consistencies of all scales and confirmed the existence of the three psychological contract types. The Cronbach Alpha obtained for transactional psychological contract, balanced psychological contract, relational psychological contract, POS LMX and perceived meaning of work was 0.65, 0.91, 0.84 0.88, 0.87 and 0.90 respectively. Except one was lower than 0.70 slightly, the others were higher than 0.80. All the coefficients could be accepted Then we conducted a confirmatory factor analysis using AMOS 16.0 to confirm the existence of the three psychological contract types. We used CMIN/DF, CFI, GFI and RMSEA as key indicators of overall model fit. Values of less than or equal to 5 on the CMIN/DF, greater than or equal to 0.90 on the GFI CFI, less than or equal to 0.08 on the RMSEA indicate good fit 24   T h e C F A y i el de d ac ce pt abl e f i t i n di c e s  C M I N  D F  2  48   CFI=0.94; GFI=0.90; RMSEA=0.057. The resulting factor structure showed a clean three-factor structure with all items loading on their predicted contract types  POS LMX Perceived meaning of work Transactional contrac t Balanced contract Relational contract 


Table 1 shows the means, standard deviations, and correlations of the variables in this study TABLE I  D ESCRIPTIVE S TATISTICS AND C ORRELATION  Variable M SD 1 2 3 4 5 6 1. Transactional 2.96 0.63       2. Balance 4.02 0.51 -0.21     3. Relational 3.20 0.65 -0.21** 0.31     4. POS 3.16 0.69 -0.24** 0.34** 0.48    5. LMX 3.41 0.68 -0.09* 0.35** 0.36** 0.44   6.  Perceived meaning of work 3.67 0.73 -0.23** 0.40** 0.44** 0.41 0.39  p<.05   **<.01        Hierarchical regression analysis was used to test the hypotheses. The control variables were entered in step 1 of the equation. These included gender, education level, age, total tenure, tenure of current job, and times of converting jobs. Here it was necessary to point out that two dummy variables were introduced to represent bachelor degree and master degree of education level respectively Hypotheses 1a, 2a and 3a were tested by regressing transactional psychological contract on the control variables POS, LMX and perceived meaning of work. Hypotheses 1b, 2b and 3b were tested by regressing balanced psychological contract on the control variables, POS, LMX and perceived meaning of work. Hypotheses 1c, 2c and 3c were tested by regressing relational psychological contract on the control variables, POS, LMX and perceived meaning of work Whether hypotheses were confirmed was through observing regression coefficients of POS, LMX and perceived meaning of work separately As Table 2 shows, POS was positively related to balanced psychological contract 0.136, P 0.01\sitively related to relational psychological contract 0.267, P 0.01 not related to transactional psychological contract 0.078 From Table 2, we can also see that LMX was positively related to two psychological contract dimensions balanced psychological contract 0.171, P 0.01\ and relational psychological contract 0.142, P 0.01\nd not related to transactional psychological contract 0.063\ Besides, table 2 also tells us that perceived meaning of work was positively related to two psychological contract dimensions balanced psychological contract 0.255, P 0.01\ and relational psychological contract 0.247, P 0.01\ and negatively related to transactional psychological contract 0.127, P 0.01\herefore, hypothesis 1c, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a, 3b, and 3c were all supported and hypothesis 1a and 1b were not confirmed TABLE II  REGRESSION  RESULTS  PREDICTING  THREE  TYPES  OF  PSYCHOLOGICAL  CONTRACT  Transactional psychological contract   Balanced psychological contract  Relational psychological contract  Step 1 Gender 0.007 -0.069 0.048 0.047 0.025 0.042 Diploma 1 0.096 0.091 -0.022 0.052 -0.190 0.102 Diploma 2 0.061 0.064 -0.021 0.049 -0.215 -0.137 Age 0.055 0.008 -0.067 0.059 0.027 -0.004 Total tenure 0.063 0.075 -0.016 -0.026 0.030 0.012 Tenure of current job 0.091 0.017 0.002 0.039 0.036 0.072 Times of converting jobs 0.020 0.005 0.037 -0.033 -0.089 -0.103 R 2  0.018  0.007  0.021 Step 2 POS 0.078  0.136**  0.267 LMX 0.063  0.171**  0.142 Perceived meaning of work 0.127 0.255 0.247 R 2  0.051  0.152  0.273 p<.05   **<.01   


VII  D ISCUSSION  This study served t following purpose: studying the relationships between perceptions of organizational practices and psychological contracts using knowledge employees as research participants. 7 of 9 hypotheses were confirmed The two unconfirmed hypothesis are that POS is negatively related to transactional psychological contract and LMX is negatively related to transactional psychological contract. The results showed that they were not related either. The reasons can be explained below. As we know that, transactional psychological contracts are based upon economic or monetary exchange and the responsibilities that employees take on are specified definitely in job descriptions. That is to say transactional responsibilities are lack of flexibility to some extent. Therefore, the manner that employees are treated seems to have little influence on transactional responsibilities that employees take on. Moreover, social desirability may weaken the relationships not only between POS and transactional psychological contract but also between LMX and transactional psychological contract when employees answer the questionnaires Additionally, it is worth noting that the influences of perceived meaning of work on employee’s psychological contracts were quite significant. This result indicates that perceived meaning of work is a key antecedent of knowledge employee’s psychological contract. The possible reason is that knowledge employees care self-worth achievement much more and aspire to obtain internal satisfaction from their work since the hierarchy of their needs is rather high. Therefore, they pay much attention to meaning of work and whether work is meaningful or not is a very critical factor when evaluating the relationship with the organization Finally, it is important to point out the study’s limitations The biggest problem of this study is that data were collected at a single point in time. Thus, the use of cross-sectional research design limits the ability to make firm conclusions about cause and effect among variables in the study. Future longitudinal research is needed to confirm the conclusions drawn by this study R EFERENCE  1  J. Sturges, N. Conway, D. Guest, and A. Liefooghe, “Managing the career deal: The psychological contract as a framework for understanding career management, organizational commitment and work behavior,” Journal of Organizational Behavior, 26: 821-838, 2005 2  W. H. Turnley, M. C. Bolino, S. W. Lester, and J. M. Bloodgood, “The Impact of Psychological Contract Fulfillment on the Performance of InRole and Organizational Citizenship Behaviors,” Journal of Management,  vol 29, No.2, pp. 187-206, 2003 3  S. L. Robinson, M. S. Kraatz, and D. M. Rousseau, “Changing obligations and the psychological contract: A longitudinal study Academy of Management Journal, vol 37, pp. 137-152, 1994 4  L. J. Millward & L. J.Hopkins, “Psychological Contracts Organizational and Job Commitment,” Journal of Applied Social Psychology, vol. 28, pp. 1530-1556, 1998 5  U. Raja, G. Johns, & F. Ntalianis, “The Impact of Personality on Psychological Contracts,” Academy of Management Journal, vol. 47, pp 350-367, 2004 6  E. J. Barger, Empirically Based Model of Psychological Contracts Fairfax, VA: George Mason University, 2004 7  D. M. Rousseau, “New hire perceptions of their own and their employer’s obligations: A study of psychological contracts” Journal of Organizational Behavior, vol 11, pp. 389-400, 1990 8  D. M.Rousseau, “Schema, promise, and mutuality: The building blocks of the psychological contract,” Joumal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, vol. 74, pp. 511-541, 2001 9  J. A-M. Coyle-Shapiro, “A psychological contract perspective on organizational citizenship behavior,” Journal of Organizational Behavior, vol 23, pp. 927-946, 2002   D. M. Rousseau. Psychological contract inventory technical report http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rousseau/0_reports/reports.html, 2000   D. M. Rousseau, and S. A. Tijoriwala, “Assessing psychological contracts: Issues, alternatives, and measures,” Journal of Organizational Behavior, vol 19, pp. 679-695, 1998   G. E. Dabos, and D. M. Rousseau, “Mutuality and reciprocity in the psychological contracts of employees and employers Journal of Applied Psychology, vol 89, pp. 52-72, 2004   C. Hui, C. Lee, and D. M. Rousseau, “Psychological contract and Organizational Citizenship Behavior in China: Investigating Generalizability and Instrumentality,” Journal of Applied Psychology vol 89, pp. 311-321, 2004   C. Lee, C. H. Tinsley, and Z. X. Chen, Psychological normative contracts of work group members in the U.S. and Hong Kong. In D. M Rousseau & R. Schalk \(Eds.\, Psychological contracts in employment Cross-cultural perspective \(pp. 87-103\. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage 2000   P. Lewis, S. Goodman, & P. Fandt,  Management: Challenges in the 21st Century. Cincinnati, OH: South-Western College Publishing, 2001   P. C. Flood, et al., “Causes and consequences of psychological contracts among knowledge workers in the high technology and financial services industries,” The International Journal of Human Resource Management vol. 12, pp. 1152-1165, 2001   R. Eisenberger, J. Cummings, & S. Armeli, “Perceived organizational support, discretionary treatment, and job satisfaction,” Journal of Applied Psychology, vol. 82, pp. 812-820, 1997   G. B. Graen, M Uhl-Bien, “Relationship-based approach to leadership Development of leader-member exchange \(LMX\ theory of leadership over 25 years: Applying a multi-level multi-domain perspective Leadership Quarterly, vol. 6, pp. 219-247, 1995   M. M. Suazo, An Examination of Anteedents and Consequences of Psychological Contract Breach,  Kansas: University of Kansas, 2002   R. C. Liden, S. J. Wayne, & R. T. Sparrowe, “An Examination of the Mediating Role of Psychological Empowerrnent on the Relations between the Job, Interpersonal Relationships, and Work Outcomes Journal of Applied Psychology, vol. 85, pp. 407-416, 2000   D. W. Organ, Organizational citizenship behavior. Lexington, MA Lexington Books, 1988   S. J. Wayne, L. M. Shore, & R. C. Liden, “Perceived Organizational Support and Leader-Member Exchange: A Social Exchange Perspective,” Academy of Management Journal, vol. 40, pp. 82-111 1997   G. M. Spreltzer, “Psychological Empowerment in the Workplace Dimensions, Measurement, and Validation,” Academy of Management Journal, vol. 38, pp. 1442-1465, 1995   N. J. Allen  J. P. Meyer, “Affective Continuance and Normative Commitment to the Organization: An Examination of Construct Validity,” Journal of Vocational Behavior 49, No.3, pp. 252-276 1996  


Lucien Wald 8 has developed terms of reference in data fusion that can be repurposed toward various fusion ontologies Wald derives most of his terms from the remote sensing and defense system applications but we will demonstrate their extension to other fields through domain goal-based and mathematical reasoning The ObjectProcess Diagram OPD is an explicit representation of the semantic decomposition of these terms for generalized fusion Its overarching premise is the treatment and origins of raw information which can take several forms from measurement and signal to observations and verbal reports The relational links that constitute the OPD is given in Figure 3-2 Figure 3-2 Relational links in OPD 0 sa is the same as A code surrogate address of symbol for Decomposes to aggregates to i.k is characterized by exhibits A eSpecializes to generalizes to i instantiated to belongs to the class of Although fusion is the central process in Figure 3-3 it is helpful to include aspects of the supporting system as well as supporting processes which act on the information It is worth noting that there are many types of raw information which can be refined over various processes and environments The hardware elements of the supporting system have been simplified to represent a simple sensor arrangement In reality complex fusion systems are comprised of multiple distributed platforms with thousands of apertures and waveforms Similarly there are many more supporting processes which enable data fusion these hierarchical classification schemes will be discussed later Figure 3-3 Object-Process Diagram for Information Fusion Parallelism and other Taxonomies Rule-based analytics in knowledge-based systems KBS have benefited tremendously from the advent of parallel computers For instance the rules highlighted in Figure 34 under supporting processes can be subjected to rule-level partitioning where classes such as correlation combination or association rules are generated Class-based rule partitioning forms another aspect of ontology development namely one based on fusion algorithm Whereas the Object-Process Diagram above took an information-based approach to ontology design the class methods utilize a hierarchical scheme which imparts a specific decompositional logic or organization Hall develops taxonomy for level 1 processing that is extensible to other levels of fusion This is derived from algorithmsboth statistical and heuristicwhich are based on level 1 fusion object identification Level 1 is specialized into 3 classes positional identity and ancillary support algorithms These are further decomposed by technique or method Positional fusion for instance involves parametric association and estimation of data Identity fusion uses physical models cognitive models and feature-based inference Ancillary support systems which often comprise more than 80 of the fusion effort include numerical libraries data alignment preprocessing database management and man/machine interfaces These are only one instance of a larger class of items 6 


tes ong the many challenges in data fusion there uses objects and relationship links The following taxonomy of identity-classification algorithms was developed by Waltz and Llinas 9 Figure 3-4 Class-Based Ontology for Identity Classification Algorithms Genenc Class vehicle Particular Class ship Figure 3-5 Semantic Network Example ATTRIBUTE-OF PARTICULAR PARTICULAR PROPERTY VALUE Diana's Speed 10 Knots Information-theoretic techniniiles Parametric templat Cluster algorithms Voting fusion Entropy methods Finally parallelism on whether any given entitysignals physical objects aggregates on the assemblage of components whose interrelations on a very different representation scheme Objects as in OPM but takes as further attribute data is generated Figure 3-5 is the layout of connectionist architecture from MacRae's research The semantic network example below illustrates the potential of ontology-based fusion for the Semantic web Like the wireless reconfigurable hardware platform developed at Dartmouth see Figure 2-2\(a use of connectionist parallel architectures for real-time data fusion applications for the Royal Navy Their architecture source providers to end sensor networks to be dynamically discovered composed and integrated with distributed fusion services to support sensor data through the Semantic Web value chain from can enable Diana Fuzzy Set Theorv an indeterminate number of entities depending an m-place relation m>n xI xn an important role in developing ontology for semantic networks MacRae and Byrne 9 studied the can play or behavior The second domain is based are such situations This most closely relates to Level 2 data fusion concerning the implications context Cognitive models for situation assessment are of interest in its attributes characteristics are a location and time which may be points are of interest where the targets themselves a key facet to support rapid propagation of a reflection of this evolving requirement for cognitive models The first domain is based users 4 SYSTEM ENGINEERING FOR DATA FUSION can be addressed by the systems framework hlighted above The first is the basis for selection of mathematical techniques This can have are entities h and k process must take into account the perspectives of various system stakeholders including the user numerical analyst operations researcher and system engineer The specific algorithms available include association methods positional estimation Kalman filtering identity fusion templating voting D-S methods classical Bayesian inference and pattern recognition techniques adaptive neural nets and cluster methods 2 Another challenge is the provisioning of data are two ch are identified by nodes and connected via links of inheritance Sensor data is processed at local active node centers and then propagated along to parallel nodes a web-based semantic network new and challenging missions An easily evolvable ontology will be a priori Increasingly this requires the need for experiential models of cognition and situational assessment in order for the fusion system to provide accurate and meaningful results The partitioning of data fusion into two problem domains is or structureson the reasoning of the agents According to Situation Theory abstract situations or infons are represented by the form P,x I Xn h k p Where P is or an extended region 7 Particular Ship HMS 


p is a polarity or truth-value Real and abstract situations can be distinguished by their polarity A real situation is a set of facts with polarity equal to 1 10 Figure 4-1 illustrates Bowman's cognitive model for a perceptual reasoning machine PRM based on the concept of reinforcement learning Figure 4-1 Perceptual Reasoning Machine PRM for Cognition  Situational Awareness Reinforcement Perceptual Reasoning Cycle each sensor's signal is specific to the transducer design Since discrimination among targets occurs locally before data entry it reduces the load on the fusion processor 2 The next step in concept selection is known as the downselect phase During down-select potential applications are screened according to their fit with the JDL processing criteria This method was developed by Stuart Pugh in the 1980's and helps design teams to decide on optimal strategies for their product goals A Pugh concept selection matrix is provided in the Appendix It ranks applications based on the processing requirements of the data Tracker-Correlator Architectures There are currently 3 general synthetic architectures for data processing which exist today centralized decentralized autonomous and hybrid architectures Refer to Figures 42 through 4-4 11 Figure 4-2 Centralized Fusion Architecture A CENTRALIZED FUSION I Decliralonri The advanced combat direction system ACDS is an example of the centralized fusion architecture 9 The system has external interfaces with existing sensors which maintain different reporting protocols and data links Acoustic IFF ESM and Radar send sensor-level tracks and target reports to the track management processor indicated by the dashed line in Figure 4-2 These reports are fed into the ACDS database which contains tactical status intelligence maps doctrine and tracks Each track-to-track association or identification from the arrival of new observations requires retrieval of the data from a central decision support processor not shown The common thread underlying these location-driven architectures is the notion of a progressive data flow from sensor set A B N through detection classification and end-state Under the centralized scheme the preprocessed output is collected into the data alignment  association through coordination transformation Raw data from a multi-target environment is correlated and then transmitted to the central processing facility A variant of this type of fusion is centralized fusion of feature vector data This construct drives ambiguity out of the system by extracting feature vectors from an image The feature-based method is 8 enarS t Constols The closed loop PRM provides situational feedback to a human perceptual system which optimizes the decisionmaking process This is viewed as a meta-level information management system for resource control that continuously updates domain knowledge as it is acquired Process Selection Comparing Fusion Levels The table in the Appendix sets forth criteria that can be used in selecting a fusion level for a given application These characteristics form part of the selection process that can be used in screening for an appropriate concept The table is divided among four levels of data that approximately correspond to the JDL fusion levels The criteria are based on the type of sensory information being generated individual signals images features etc The table goes on to characterize the content of such information The degree and means of registration are also important factors as the spatial position of sensors determines their ultimate footprint and target-detection space Overlapping footprints ensure that time-dependent phenomena such as a target motion are observed by all sensors at the same time The criteria in Table A can then be used to select the type of architecture which factor into the fusion system design i.e central or sensor-level processing The main difference between these two is that the former processes sensor reports directly and in one place requiring a more complex fusion processor This helps to achieve better accuracy when the multi-sensor data is not generated by independent phenomena Sensor-level fusion is preferred when the signatures are independent There is more cueing of sensors with others in the suite where the optimization of NIIyotk*wwufic  im n 


raw data prp"exn PrNbility of Su silful I Declaration This effectively removes the fusion process the track management processor further downstream Rather than performing sequential estimation at the data level as in the centralized case this architecture provides state vector estimation of position and velocity for an object Although they cull from single-source data decentralized systems tend to degrade the output because there is information loss between the sensor and fusion process An example of a decentralized system is a robot navigation system that can autonomously navigate through a continuous state-space through selective switching between sensors actuators and their effectors legs wheels joints and grippers Intelligent agents such as robots might be designed factoring some goal-state into its decentralized architecture The third generic tracker  correlator architecture is a hybrid system Figure 4-4 which combines state-vector and datalevel fusion processes This confers more flexibility than the previous two cases but imposes a switching cost For instance a dense target environment or complex signal propagation may require centralized fusion for a more accurate assessment of identity The availability of sensors may constrain the user to select autonomous fusion any changeover between the two will impose selection and monitoring costs as well as communication requirements which need to be carefully weighed against the expected benefit In the domain of robotic software architectures the hybrid tracker/correlator would be used to combine elements of reactive and deliberate control Reactive control refers to sensor-driven control that may be used for low-level decision making processes whereas deliberate path planning control refers to global executive decisionmaking Both are necessary for the operation of unmanned land or air vehicles as well as planetary rovers 12 centralized fusion locally fused data track file or decentralized approach and raw/preprocessed data hybrid approach The advantages of the three architectures are summarized below 9 Centralized fusion requires high bandwidth buses to pass the high-rate raw data and powerful central processing capability The autonomous approach tailors the track and classification functions to individual sensor outputs at the expense of an accurate position estimate Finally the hybrid approach selectively transitions between the central and autonomous processes as the situation requires Real world architectures are designed to incorporate more than just the tracker-correlator aspect highlighted above which represents only 20 of the software development effort for a fusion system based on lines of code as a metric 9 Other representations exist for the identity component of Level 1 fusion Levels 2 and 3 fusion adopt among others the blackboard approach described in the following section Finally Level 4 fusion models functions pertaining to communication database management human factors and executive control Hierarchical Architectures A blackboard description of an object hierarchy is an excellent model for building semantic knowledge databases and networks Categories are the building blocks of any large scale knowledge representation scheme 12 The blackboard adaptation illustrates the potential precursor to a semantic network for target identification The blackboard approach uses categorical reasoning to relay the notion of inheritance and parallelism The blackboard approach presents L2 Situation or L3 Threat assessments for an air-land battle It confers flexibility to the designer through static and dynamic representation models that are based on independent modular knowledge sources As rule-based expert systems 9 or measurement sets Targt Clasication L PF Trckn  4a1ing and Control Par."ater C mseIfic.tktoUn ndCt T1 TUat makes these three architectures unique Firstly they All Pr Xnt g C&reatSn-an be considered ontologies of function That is these a t three arrangements represent a taxonomy of trackerI Raking  S P v1 Far motorsn 1 correlator functions In the language of OPM the operand Trackio n 1I\2431asseaIln t c=v t  _ in these architectures one of many types of approaches to the object recognition problem In autonomous or decentralized fusion architecture Figure 4-3 individual tracking and classification functions are assigned to each sensor output Figure 4-3 Decentralized Fusion Architecture Figure 4-4 Hybrid Fusion Architecture C BRID FUSION Gullll   c ai&iriimI pll Ii itloi 1 m LL T 6 kcAstful B AUTONOMOUS FUSION Deection Esration 1 Sonsor Contmls are the 


they are a useful construct for exploratory research and incremental development of a problem Finally hierarchical decompositions help deal with the problem of complexity in mission design by reducing the number of activities through progressive levels of detail Objectoriented representations in action decomposition are stored in plan librariesor databasesthat can be accessed to fit the needs of the mission However hierarchical methods such as blackboard architectures do not always decompose problems correctly In artificial intelligence Al the inability to capture everything in a set of logical rules is known as the qualification problem 13 Consequently blackboard architectures can be expensive to build modify and operate 5 APPLICATIONS Command Control Communications Computers and Intelligence Surveillance  Reconnaissance systems C4ISR provide mature highly evolved examples of data fusion but they are not the only systems which make use of data fusion concepts The objective of a C4ISR system is to provide a comprehensive view of the tactical and strategic battle space through a variety of technologyand intelligence-based media The systems are composed of software hardware and human elements which work in concert to support decision-making processes Fulfillment of C4ISR objectives draws heavily on the utilization of sensor data Increasingly fusion design needs to account for the transition from platform-based systems to networkcentric operations Sense  Respond Logistics SRL Sense  Respond is an emerging domain in military and commercial logistics with powerful implications for the fusion paradigm It is a managerial framework that was originally proposed by researchers at IBM 13 based on the dynamic of change in business security and technology It is comprised of a value net of self-synchronizing partnerships which form and dissolve to adapt to demands in the environment Elements of this value net have been evolved specifically the triumvirate known as operational logistics and intelligence command for military and defense scenarios SRL almost mirrors the data fusion process itself by observing patterns detecting issues and performing root-cause analysis Finally data fusion in robotics plays an important role in factory automation processes such as material handling part fabrication and assembly This can appear in the form of cooperative systems dexterous hands and tele-operation for mining and manufacturing Biometrics Biometrics offers interesting case applications of data fusion principles Biometrics are used in the security or identification sectors where the systems draws on an attribute database to make comparisons and declarations about ownership or identity This is characterized by a subset of the processes used in the JDL model of data fusion object identification collection collation and evaluation The final stage of processing uses relatively simple decision rules to either accept or reject the user based on the attribute data on record Space Expeditions The Haughton-Mars expedition to the Canadian Arctic conducted by MIT in 2005 synthesizes some of these and other considerations in a complex data fusion system design Among other objectives the team set out to determine the efficacy of RFID technology for intelligent agent and asset tracking in support of exploration logistics 14 The International Space Station ISS is currently dominated by manual tracking and barcodes so the hypothesis was that automated web-accessible systems could offer potential savings in time and effort for inventory management Though the concept of RFID tagging was simple it led to complications with respect to optimal antenna installation and tracking of liquids and metallic items The system was equipped with both passive battery-run and active tagging leading to interference in the 915 MHz and 2450 MHz bands This implied that the range data could be reliable under more powerful strictly active RF sensors This would of course require the proper level of EMI shielding of the agents containers and ATVs being tracked In a separate part of the experiment the team developed functional Class of Supply COS ontologies to supplement the Cargo Category Allocations Rates Table CCART used by NASA as well as supply classifications used by NATO and the US Military This was borne out of the need to capture all major items for the new space exploration initiative not already listed in the CCART such as categories for propellant fuels and surface transportation vehicles needed for remote science stations Dynamically indexing these remote logistics categories to a generic upper level ontology that is web-enabled could vastly improve the tracking operation The sensor data being fused could help teams to not only make operational adjustments to the expedition for instance regarding ATV usage but also improve the quality and relevance of the experiments For instance an asset library that is hyperlinked to the web could inform agents of similar expeditions with results/findings openly accessible to the participants Semantic web links would ensure that there is no violation in naming conventions as new logistics applications are discovered Connectionist architectures 10 


would enable the Class of Supply and other ontologies to optimally evolve with remote science networks catering to the diversity of exploration missions around the world 6 CONCLUSIONS This work has introduced some of the formal process models for data fusion which have been developed by the remote sensing and defense communities An overview of sensor and sensor platforms was described as they relate to the concepts and challenges of multi-sensor data fusion The role of fusion in ontological engineering was also discussed specifically as it relates to knowledge databases for fusion Ontology reuse can be a major facilitator for creating blackboard architectures for knowledge representation Systems engineering processes can play an important role in structuring and implementing complex fusion designs beginning with concept selection A Pugh Concept Screening Matrix was developed See Appendix which ranked several potential application areas for their adaptability to C4ISR-type fusion The medical diagnostics domain was found to be the most strongly correlated with the JDL data processing criteria The data may be simply gathered through visual observation thermometers etc or processed using sophisticated sensor machines based on nuclear magnetic resonance acoustic imaging and X-ray imaging In either case there is a clear demand for the high-tech application of fusion software algorithms and hardware sensing devices in this expanding and important field Future research in data fusion might address how ObjectProcess Methodology can be used to better understand problems related to concurrency control in localized sensors and distributed sensor networks It may also include an application of the fusion models developed for commercial implementation in vehicle health monitoring marketing science and logistics or supply chain management Additional research is required into designing data fusion test-beds so that some of the tracker-correlator architectures discussed in this thesis can be evaluated and verified for performance Finally research can be undertaken in developing robust ontologies that will enable the benefits of multi-sensor fusion to be more widely accessible through the Semantic Web 7 APPENDIX This Pugh Concept Selection screen is designed to weight application areas against the processes in the JDL implementation model The baseline reference case is the C4ISR system all other selection criteria are comparatively ranked against the reference case  or  The method was developed to help narrow concepts quickly and to improve them in a structured manner As we can see it is an imperfect approachaccording to the ranking the selection matrix above would not have us develop a fusion system for an intelligent transportation system However all indicators point to this being a worthy implementation of data fusion Kobayashi et al 15 proposed the Kalman approach for fusing measurement data from differential GPS wheel speedometer and optical fibre rate gyro And Mirabadi and Schmid 16 evaluated train speed and measurement through a combination of GPS INS and tachometers 11 


Concept Medical diagnostics features highest case The example cited from Luo et al 17 is the case-based data fusion methods used to support clinical decision support The detection and classification process might involve can grasp the concepts and processes that underpin the widest possible range of fusion applications 12  I Selection Criteria C4ISR Remote Medical Intelligent Condition reference Sensing Diagnostics Transportation Monitoring Level 1 Detection 0 0    Orientation 0 0 0  Classification 0    Identification 0     Level 2 Object Aggregation 0    Event  Activity Aggregation 0 0  0 Contextual Interpretation Fusion 0 0 0 Level 3 Capability Estimation 0 0 Prediction of Enemy Intent 0 0 Identification of Threat 0 0   Multi-perspective Assessment 0  0 0  Offensive  Defensive Analysis 0 0 0 Level 4 Evaluations 0     Fusion Control 0 0 0  0 Source Requirements Processing 0  0   Mission Management 0 0 0  0 Sum s 0 7 7 7 8 Sum O's 16 7 8 1 5 Sum s 0 2 1 8 3 Net Score 0 5 6 1 5 Rank 3 2 1 4 2 Continue Yes Yes Yes No Yes error in Pugh methods In the example above error have mainly to do with the bias of the selection criteria to the remote sensing and defense lexicon of data fusion This highlights the importance of developing upper-level ontologies which as a JDL implementation option which sources of means that it is best suited to leverage the algorithms and processes from the C4ISR reference a cardiac event including ventricular and atrial activity The process being controlled referred to automatic rhythm monitoring through integration of electrocardiogram and hemodynamic signals Although it is a quantitative tool for comparing concepts there is inherent subjective 


REFERENCES 1 Steinberg A 2000 Data Fusion System Engineering International Society of Information Fusion 2]Klein L 1999 Sensor and Data Fusion Concepts and Applications 2nd ed SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham WA 3]Gruber T 1993 A Translation Approach to Portable Ontologies Knowledge Acquisition 5\(2 199-220 4]Boury-Brisset A 2003 Ontology-based Approach for Information Fusion International Society of Information Fusion 5 Martins J and Pinto H 2004 Ontologies How can they be built Knowledge and Information Systems Springer-Verlag London 14 de Weck 0 and Simchi-Levi D 2006 HaughtonMars Project Expedition 2005 Interplanetary Supply Chain Management and Logistics Architectures MITINASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate and Research  Technology Program NASA/TP-2006214196 15 Kobayashi K Munekata F and Watanabe K 1994 Accurate navigation via differential GPS and vehicle local sensors in Proc IEEE Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 9-16 16 Mirabadi A Mort N and Schmid F 1996 Application of sensor fusion to railway systems in Proc IEEE/SICE/RSJ Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 185-192 17 Luo R Chih-Chen Y and Su K 2002 Multi-sensor Fusion and Integration Approaches and Future Research Directions IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 2 No 2 pp 102119 6 Van Heist G Schreiber A and Wielinga B 1997 Using explicit ontologies in KBS development Int J Hum Computer Stud 46\(2/3 pp 183-292 7 Guarino N 1998 Formal ontology and information systems In Guarino N ed Formal ontology in information systems IOS Press Amsterdam pp.3-15 8 Wald L 1999 Some Terms of Reference in Data Fusion IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol 37 No 3 9 Waltz E and Llinas J 1990 Multi sensor Data Fusion Artech House Norwood MIA 10 Bowman C 2004 The Dual Node Network DNN Data Fusion  Resource Management DF&RM Architecture AIAA Intelligent Systems Conference Chicago 11 Hall D and Llinas J 1997 An Introduction to Multisensor Data Fusion IEEE Proceedings Vol 85 No 1 12 Russell S and P Norvig 2003 Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach 2nd ed Pearson Education Inc New Jersey 13 Lin G et al 2005 Transforming the military through sense and respond IBM Business Consulting Services White Paper IBM Global Services Somers NY BIOGRAPHY Atif Mirza is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton He specializes in corporate strategy and operations advisory for clients in the Global Aerospace and Defense Practice Prior to joining Booz Allen Mr Mirza was a graduate student at MIT where he was a System Design and Management Fellow in the Engineering Systems Division He holds a joint SM degree in Engineering and Management from MIT/Sloan and a BEng with Honors in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Edinburgh Scotland 13 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


