Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 1 ITER CODAC Status and Implementation Plan N. Utzel 1 WD. Klotz 1 A. Wallander 1  H. Dave 1 F. Di Maio 1 H. K. Gulati 1 C. Hansalia 1  D. Joonekindt 2 JY. Journeaux 1 K. Mahajan 1 P. Makijarvi 1 L. Scibile 1  D. Stepanov 1 I. Yonekawa 
1   1 ITER Organization, CS 90 046, 13067 St. Paul-lez-Durance Cedex, France 2 Atos Origin, 36 Chemin du Vieux-Ch\352ne, BP 104, 38243 Meylan Cedex, France  CODAC \(Control, Data Access and Communication\ is the central control system responsible for operating the ITER device CODAC interfaces to more than 160 plant systems containing actu ators, sensors and local control. CODAC is responsible for coordinating and orchestrating the operation of these plant systems including plasma feedback control. CODAC is developed by IT ER Organization, while plant systems are developed by the seven ITER parties \(China, Europe, India, Japan, Korea, Russia and Unite 
d States\. This procurement model poses enormous challenges, has a big impact on architecture design and requires a strong standardization for better integration and future maintenance. In this paper we briefly describe the CODAC conceptual design elaborate on the actions taken by the CODAC team to move from conc eptual to engineering design during the last year and outline the plans ahead  Index Terms 227 centralized control, command and control systems, measurement, SCADA systems  I  I NTRODUCTION  TER is a joint international research and development 
project that aims to demonstrate the scientific and technical feasibility of fusion power. The partners in the project - the ITER Parties - are China, the European Union, India, Japan Korea, the Russian Federation and the USA. ITER will be constructed in Europe, at Cadarache in the South of France With the completion of negotiations at the end of 2005, a provisional agreement on how to share the ITER hardware procurements among the future ITER Parties was reached This envisages that 89% of the items will be provided "in kind\224 by the seven parties, with the remainder being purchased through a joint fund under the control of the ITER Organization \(IO\his international collaborative framework 
would allow participants to share costs and pool scientific and technological expertise towards a common goal During normal operation, ITER device will be controlled and monitored by CODAC - the control, data access, and communication system. CODAC consists of a central supervisory control system, which coordinates the activity of local control systems in each plant system. CODAC controls transitions of the entire ITER plant state, and provides high level commands to plant systems, achieving integrated control of the entire plant. CODAC also monitors the operational state of each plant system to ensure it is operating within its proper condition limits. CODAC interfaces to more than 160 plant 
systems and local controls ITER \223in-kind\224 procurement poses enormous challenges On one side, CODAC - the central control system - is developed by IO. On the other side, the local control in the plant systems is developed by the seven ITER parties The impact of this procurement model on CODAC architecture design will be detailed firstly, as well as the necessary strong standardization effort required for better integration and future maintenance. Then, we briefly elaborate on the actions taken by the CODAC team to move from conceptual to engineering design during the last year and outline the plans ahead II  CODAC CHALLENGES 
 A  ITER Seen by CODAC To achieve integrated hierarchical control of the ITER plant, CODAC provides general software functions for the benefit of the individual plant systems, a synchronization system, and large bandwidth backbone communication networks with gateways which allow real time participation from remote ITER work sites. In addition, CODAC coordinates data acquisition & processing of data from the plant systems and manages the experimental database The interlock and safety systems, in parallel with the CODAC systems, ensure plant-wide investment protection, as well as personnel and environment protection, in case of off 
normal events. In addition, the interlock system monitors operation of the plant, and performs preventative and protective actions to maintain the system components in a safe operating condition. Fig. 1 illustrates how ITER is seen by CODAC and the general software functions assumed by the central control systems I 227\227\227\227\227\227\227\227\227 Digital Object Identifier inserted by IEEE 


Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 2  Fig. 1 ITER seen by CODAC B  CODAC Conceptual Design [1   2  Reliable operation of the ITER plant will be achieved through an integrated plant control. CODAC has the primary function of maintaining the plant operating condition in normal states. The interlock system tries to avoid or minimize machine damage from operational events with or without availability of the CODAC. The interlock system, separated from the CODAC, is hierarchically structured and has individual plant interlock systems dedicated to each plant system Since, the ITER machine is classified by the French safety regulations as a nuclear installation in the subclass of labs and fuel plants due to the expected tritium inventory and the level of materials neutron activation, it has been decided to implement the safety function independently from CODAC Hence, there is a net separation between CODAC conventional control system, interlock and safety systems C  CODAC Interface with Plant Systems The hierarchical architecture of the ITER plant control systems spans from the presentation layer with the Remote Control Rooms and ITER Central Control Room to the equipment layer with actuators and sensors for conventional control systems and for interlock and safety control systems The central control layer manages the general supervision functions necessary for the orchestration of all plant system local controllers. On the local co ntrol layer, local controllers are either industrial controllers such as Programmable Logic Controller \(PLC\ast controllers such as PC or embedded system for fast data acquisition and plasma feedback control Local controller directly control and monitor individual plant system and diagnostic The limits in the autonomous behavior of a plant system are always determined by CODAC System, allowing the possibility of going from complete autonomy during tests for example, to a total subordination when all parameters of the plant system process are fixed from the central supervisory control system Fig. 2 provides an overview of the ITER Instrumentation and Control hierarchical architecture including the CODAC interlock and safety systems in three independent vertical tiers  Fig. 2 ITER Instrumentation and Control architecture CODAC interfaces to the local control in the plant system \226 the plant system Instrumentation and Control \(I&C\ - via the Plant System Host \(PSH\igh Performance Networks HPN\PSH hardware and software will be provided by IO to ITER parties in charge of the procurement. ITER party will have to configure it to adapt it to its specific requirements Fig.3 illustrates the central and local I&C layers and their interfaces  Fig. 3 Central and local I&C layers 1  Plant System Host \(PSH Plant System Host provides a single point of entry for asynchronous communication from CODAC system to plant conventional control system and vice versa. The PSH also provides command dispatching, state monitoring, data flow and configuration functions On architecture point of view, plant system I&C consists of one and only one PSH and one or many plant system controller\(s\terfacing to signal interface\(s\. Plant system controllers may be organized in a hierarchical manner using one controller supervising the others \(Fig. 4 


Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 3  Fig. 4 Hierarchy of controllers Alternatively, the plant system can be broken up in multiple plant system I&C, each with one PSH, delegating the plant system supervising function to CODAC System \(Fig. 5  Fig. 5 Multiple plant system I&C The former approach is preferred for closely coupled systems, while the latter is preferred for loosely coupled systems. The latter architecture has several advantages in modularity, testing, and integration 2  Mini-CODAC Mini-CODAC is a system supplied by IO in order to provide the plant system I&C with a subset of the CODAC system functions before the plant system is integrated into the CODAC system infrastructure on-site. The purpose of MiniCODAC is twofold: to provide a test tool for Factory Acceptance Test \(FAT\d to provide a software environment to prepare the integration of the plant system I&C within CODAC centralized system. The configuration of the MiniCODAC is under responsibility of the plant system I&C supplier. The primary functions of Mini-CODAC are essential: the development of Human Machine Interfaces to locally monitor and operate the plant system, the management of the plant system alarms and events, the configuration of the plant system, the storage and treatment of engineering and scientific data, and the development of test programs 3  CODAC High Performance Networks Networks Interface provides the physical interconnection between plant system I&C and central I&C systems. There are seven networks \(I&C Networks\ined for different purposes and with different performances. Each plant system can communicate over one or more networks depending on the required functionality, volume of data, bandwidth and latency Networks are centrally managed by IO including assignment of network addresses In accordance with the three tiers separation concept, I&C Networks are divided into CODAC Networks, Central Interlock Network, and Central Safety Networks. CODAC Networks, in turn, comprise general purpose Plant Operation Network and a set of specialized networks, named High Performance Networks. High Performance Networks consist of the Synchronous Databus Network \(SDN\ which provides synchronous interface required for fast plasma feedback sampling frequencies in the kHz range\, the Time Communication Network which supplies project-wide time synchronization with an accuracy of 50-100 ns, the Event Distribution Network with latency less than 10 \265s and the Audio/Video Network for survey and diagnostic audio and video data 4  Instrumentation and Control Cubicles ITER site integration includes the installation of I&C cubicles, cubicle cabling, installation of equipments within cubicles, and cubicle powering. The procedures for hardware and software installation shall be provided and executed by the plant system I&C supplier under IO supervision. The cabling including ground and power supply connections shall be handled by IO. Fig. 6 illustrates two types of I&C cubicles \226 a signal conditioning cubicle and a plant system local control cubicle  Fig. 6 I&C cubicles III  A. I&C  I NTEGRATED P RODUCT T EAM IPT Rather than ITER Organization and the ITER parties acting 


Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 4 as two bodies - the one responsible for the baseline documentation and the other one for placing the contracts with the manufacturers - the Management Advisory Board to ITER had charged both entities to closer collaborate, join forces and think as one team - think as an Integrated Product Team \(IPT In March 2009, an I&C IPT has been defined to ensure that all Instrumentation and Control are designed, implemented and integrated such that ITER can be operated as a fully integrated system The objectives are to establish links between IO plant system process, ITER parties and I&C suppliers \(industry or institutes\C IPT provides a si gnificant transverse function to enhance CODAC standards and promote functional and interface coordination between central control system and local control systems IV  CODAC  S TANDARDIZATION E FFORT  ITER \223in kind\224 procurement model has not only a significant impact on CODAC architecture design or team organization but also requires a strong standardization in order to ease the integration and future maintenance of the plant system I&C 1  Plant Control Design Handbook ITER Plant Control Design Handbook \(PCDH i n e s  standards for all ITER plant system I&C. PCDH must be followed by everyone involved in the development of ITER plant systems I&C, i.e. plant system responsible officers, plant system I&C designers and plant system I&C suppliers regardless of their affiliation \(i.e. IO, ITER party, industry or institute IO has the responsibility to develop, support, maintain and enforce the standards specified in the PCDH. IO will release the PCDH at regular intervals throughout the lifetime of ITER to take into account eventual standards and specifications extensions and evolutions and to address obsolescence management The PCDH comprises deliverables and quality assurance requirements as well as catalogues of standard software and hardware components. Well established industrial standards commercial off-the-shelf and open source products are promoted, while custom-built solutions are strongly discouraged 2  PCDH V4 PCDH version 4 has been released end of April 2009. This major version includes the plant system I&C Life Cycle description and conditions in which the I&C part is designed manufactured and integrated Some hardware and software components are already part of the ITER standard catalogues. The Open Source solution EPICS \(Experimental Physics and Industrial Control System widely used in large experimental physics facilities has been chosen as a result of a SCADA survey. In consequence, the software infrastructure for PSH and Mini-CODAC is EPICS with Channel Access as communication middleware Siemens Simatic S7 PLC family has been selected as the industrial solution for slow controllers as an outcome of an open call for tender The Operating System \(OS\Linux has been preferred for PSH and Mini-CODAC. The Linux distribution shall be chosen this year. The Real Time OS decision for the fast controllers is deferred V  CODAC  C URRENT A CTIONS  The ITER design choices and prescribed standards are based on independent market surveys, prototype activities benchmarking and evaluations A  PSH and Mini-CODAC prototyping in action The scope of the prototyping task defined in September 2008 is to design and implement the PSH and Mini-CODAC including their technical interfaces with slow and fast controllers, and with CODAC Networks Before building a working model of PSH and MiniCODAC, a detailed requirements analysis and a functional analysis will be performed in order to clarify the functionalities and interfaces of the prototypes. Then, a case study of a plant system shall be ideally based on a real ITER plant system and involve close collaboration with the plant system responsible officer and designers in order to have a better understanding of FAT and the scenarios and environment where PSH and Mini-CODAC will run. Finally a mock-up of a FAT for the case study plant system shall be delivered This prototyping task is now scheduled to start mid-2009 and to last three years B  Plant System Simulator and Fast Control Plant System Prototype CODAC Conceptual Design identifies two types of plant system: slow control plant system based on industrial automation technology, with maximum sampling rates less than 100 Hz and fast control plant system based on embedded technology with higher sampling rates and more stringent realtime requirements. The latter is applicable to diagnostics and plant systems having actuators involved in feedback loops with sampling rates 1 kHz or higher One prototyping task aims at designing and implementing a plant system simulator to facilitate a test environment for the PSH and CODAC systems. In a second phase the task aims at prototyping technology for a fast high performance plant system One major goal of this task is to explore the suitability of ATCA and TCA technologies for ITER CODAC. It is considered urgent to have early feedback on these standards In parallel other standard bus systems based on PCI Express Peripheral Component Interconnect Express or PCIe\all be explored This prototyping task shall start in the second quarter of 2009 for 3 years C  Operation Request Gatekeeper prototype A missing element in CODAC conceptual design is a detailed definition of the required functionality of the 


Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 5 Operation Request Gatekeeper wh ich is a crucial element to the successful remote operation of ITER and a basic requirement of the ITER project, under the direct responsibility of CODAC The prototyping task aims to develop clear structured requirements for the gatekeeper including a description of all transactions to be carried out by the gatekeeper and to provide a working model to demonstrate that these requirements are complete and include all required security for remote exploitation D  CODAC Scheduling System prototype The Scheduling System, a subsystem of CODAC, is responsible for preparing, validating, storing and selecting operation schedules. This includes preparation tools for the end users \(physicists\validation functions, queuing database functions to manipulate the queue and functions to submit schedules for execution. The Scheduling System is partly deployed outside Cadarache site at Remote Experiment Sites and partly on site. Further, the Scheduling System defines the data format and set ability exposed to the end users and therefore generates requirements toward other CODAC systems and plant systems. The prototyping task defined in September 2008 aims to analyze and detail the requirements to perform a detailed design and a prototype implementation of the Scheduling System The ITER device will be operated in an automated way though the scheduling system. A pulse schedule consists of schedule segments. Each schedule segment is unbreakable and has associated parameter data \(e.g. set points, algorithm numbers, and waveforms\. A schedule segment may have multiple output branches, to take into account standard error standard abort and user selectable Fig. 7 illustrates the data flow from schedule preparation validation and execution to production, archiving and delivery of data Fig. 7 CODAC schedule system data flow The physicist responsible for preparing the pulse schedule could be located locally at ITER site or remotely. The user selects and links schedule segments from a standard catalogue specifies parameter data and selectable branching The scientific request is translated into an executable format by the Schedule Preparation System and validated by the Schedule Validation System, before being passed through the Access Gateway System, validated again regarding the operation state and stored in the Schedule Storage In operation mode, the operator selects the appropriate schedule from the queue and triggers its execution using the Schedule Queuing System. The Supervisory Control System acts as a single point of contact to CODAC and plant systems which transform the schedule into scientific data marshaled to the scientific archive and back to the physicist using the Data Access System E  CODAC High Performance Networks survey Some functions of CODAC require deterministic, hard realtime communication and synchronization between distributed nodes. These requirements are addressed by the CODAC High Performance Networks: Synchronous Databus Network, Time Communication Network, Event Distribution Network, and Audio/Video Network A task defined in September 2008 aims to investigate potential commercial off-the-shelf technology solutions and to build small prototypes to demonstrate that requirements can be met. The maximum duration of this task is 25 weeks F  EPICS for Tokamak control study The task defined in November 2008 aims to leverage the experience using EPICS for Tokamak control, to capture the lessons learned, to demonstrate the use of EPICS in an existing device and to investigate a case study of integrating a plant system The first part is to study the feasibility analysis of EPICS as a middleware and software framework for Tokamak control system based on a comparison of using EPICS in Tokamaks and particle accelerators The second objective is to analyze the interface between a plant system, such as Coil Power Supply, and CODAC using EPICS as middleware and software framework. We expect preliminary recommendations on how to integrate the plant system with PSH and HPN Finally, the adaptability of EPICS to Tokamak control system will be verified by demonstrating an EPICS-based control system on an operating device especially focusing on faults on plant operation, data exchange and archiving, data retrieval and presentation to operators/scientists This study has come into force in the first quarter of 2009 and shall last no longer than 32 weeks VI  CODAC  P LANS A HEAD  After elaborating on the actions taken by the CODAC team to move from conceptual to engineering design during the last year, it is time to outline plans ahead As discussed previously, the operation of the ITER machine involves more than 160 plant systems I&C which are mostly procured in kind by ITER parties. In order to assist the IO in specifying, reviewing and following up the Plant System I&Cs along the I&C life cycle from design to integration, an engineering support contract will be setup. It includes support for technical specifications preparation, standardization 


Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 6 activity, FAT follow-up, ITER site installation and site acceptance tests  follow-up The implementation plan of the integrated hierarchical control of the ITER plant covers the design, implementation installation, integration and commissioning of CODAC Central Interlock System and Central Safety System. It also covers the definition, support, maintenance and enforcement of standards and interfaces to Plant Systems I&C. The current version of CODAC implementation plan is based on the latest official Integrated Project Schedule dated on May 16, 2008 The first major task of CODAC implementation plan concerns CODAC Core Systems which comprise the hardware and software required to interface and test plant systems I&C CODAC Core Systems are required early in the project to support the development of Plant Systems I&C. The strategy is to encourage the use of PSH and Mini-CODAC as early as possible in the development process. A key milestone is January 2012 with the beginning of factory test. CODAC Core Systems shall be released on a regular basis adding and improving functionality, performance, reliability and usability Backward compatibility and inter version operability shall be guaranteed as part of obsolescence management The second main activity of CODAC implementation plan addresses the network infrastructure which comprises site cabling, hutches, switches and other equipments in CODAC hutch cubicles. The network infrastructure is also fundamental to start receiving plant systems on-site such as cooling water and heat rejection systems which start commissioning in Nov 2013. High Performance Network R&D contracts shall be completed by the second half of 2009 and the design of all networks shall commence CODAC Servers task of the implementation plan comprises the definition and procurement of all computers installed in the computer and control rooms in the control building. To support plant system commissioning commencing November 2013, a subset of the servers must be installed and connected to the network infrastructure. Due to the short lifetime of mainstream servers and the long development and installation time it is foreseen to upgrade most servers before the completion of the construction phase CODAC Application Systems task comprises all software running on the central servers and on the control stations. This includes monitoring, supervising and scheduling functionalities, plant simulators, data acquisition and archiving, cross plant system automation, plasma control system, pulse execution system as well as all tools for configuration, diagnostics and maintenance. Naturally CODAC Application Systems are developed later than the CODAC Core Systems. The strategy is to launch some R&D tasks in critical areas early and develop the production systems later taking advantage of these R&D tasks as well as the development of CODAC Core Systems VII  C ONCLUSION  A major achievement of CODAC current actions is the release of the Plant Control Design Handbook V4 which defines standards, specifications and interfaces applicable to all plant systems I&C. This definition of standards, later to be supported, maintained and enforced, is essential in order to integrate, maintain and contai n cost of the ITER control system. The PCDH is a living document and will be released at regular intervals throughout the construction of ITER. It will also integrate in the proposed catalogues the results of the prototyping and survey activities leading to technology decisions CODAC implementation plan integrates necessary steps to be able to start factory test and the commissioning of the first plant systems. The focus is on the Core Systems to support plant system I&C development, the network design and the basic CODAC servers and applications infrastructure for November 2013 A CKNOWLEDGMENT  IO CODAC team thanks the CODAC Project Management Working Group: Jonathan Farthing \(European Union\, Jiarong Luo \(China\ad Dayrambhai Pujara \(India\nori Kawano \(Japan\, Jhang Hogun \(Korea\, Igor Semenov \(Russia Federation\ and Daniel Ciarlette \(USA IO CODAC team also thanks Jonathan Lister as the originator of the CODAC Conceptual Design R EFERENCES  1  J.B. Lister, J.W. Farthing, M. Greenwald and I. Yonekawa \223Status of the ITER CODAC conceptual Design\224, ICALEPCS, Knoxville, Tennessee USA, October, 2007 2  J.B. Lister, J.W. Farthing, M. Greenwald and I. Yonekawa, \223The ITER CODAC Conceptual Design\224, Fusion Engineering and Design 82 \(2007 1167-1173 3  ITER CODAC Team, \223Plant Control Design Handbook\224 ITER_D_27LH2V v4.0TBD 


of the user and allowing the user to pull services that match As an example consider a parent who needs to find information on their children s school vacation days. This user belongs to a very broad group of citizens with the context dimension.  If we can detect that the user is a parent of children at a specific school then the service need is specific and can be implemented as a specific request belonging to a general category of school-related or even educationrelated services provided by the services dimension.  In addition, the location facet lends itself to hierarchy very well; the need focuses on a certain school, which may be a subset of a school district or located in a certain part of a city. \(We leave the discussion of how this detection of user context is done to future work  Citizen-specific CitiScape  Next we show how a CitiScape architecture accomplishes this by integrating both retrieval and filtering con prov ide th e u s er w i t h  customized e-landscape.  The details are accomplished by the organized portal dimensions, taxonomies, and faceted nodes that are connected dynamically to provide the user with a custom CitiScape as follows To dynamically populate a CitiScape, we use the ideas of faceted classification h eth er a  departmental service belongs to a particular CitiScape is determined by faceted classification.  CitiScapes and Services are both organized based on a collection of categories, called facets.  Each of which has a group of associated default values that describe the information A CitiScape has default facet values.  However, if more specific role and event facet values are known they are used to customize queries that pull to populate more specific services, time, location and value/cost information into the Getting health care  CitiScape.  The long-term characteristics of a user \(e.g lives in a certain neighborhood, is a frequent user of the website, is a parent/senior citizen/college student has certain interests or works in a certain profession can also be combined with their short-term information need to provide a rich user experience. Additional facets may also apply to populate the CitiScapes such as accessibility alternatives Thus, through our notion of CitiScapes, we support the interaction of the user with the system and help the system in making intelligent choices with regard to the services that it needs to push to the user based on how they enter the system, their behavior within the system, system metrics, and other metrics that will be used to define facet values.   This conceptual model helps the government bundle services together to be pr ovided to citizens in the appropriate order and relevance, thereby enhancing the user experience  User experience with Dynamic CitiScapes  The effective organization of services or information items is crucial for the government in order to provide citizens with the enhanced user experience and remain competitive itself.  However the organization of these items is as challenging as much as it is crucial.  This is because each of these items can be of interest fully or partially to more than one user group while a single user group may be interested in a varied collection of items As shown in Table 1, various user groups such as citizens, visitors, families, seniors, safety and health workers would like to interact with the City to access the items of interest to them.  This would be a subset of all the information items and services that the Government has to offer.  The use of the facets as cues for user interest is illustrated next Services such as finding a hospital, doctor, or insurance will probably be most helpful to the user if they take into account the user s location Most of the services and information in the health example are applicable to citizens in general, although finding a Table 1: Sample items pertaining to health-related CitiScapes. - denotes the default value for the facet CitiScape Item Role facet Event facet Time facet Location facet Paying for Healthcare Citizens Finding Healthcare   Find Flu Shots Citizens Finding Healthcare   Make Appointment at Clinic Citizens Finding Healthcare   Find Doctor Citizens Finding Healthcare urgent proximity to user Insurance Search Citizens Finding Healthcare  proximity to user Find Hospital Citizens, Visitors Finding Healthcare urgent proximity to user Nutrition/Diet Info Citizens, health care providers Staying Healthy Exercise Tips Citizens/Seniors/Families Staying Healthy   Staying Healthy in Winter Citizens Staying Healthy winter  Family Health Tips Families Staying Healthy   Evacuation Citizens, safety providers Health Urgent  Sign up for Email Update Citizens Health   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


hospital is an example of a service that might be of interest to visitors as well Exercise tips is an example of a dynamic information object that can take parameters from a CitiScape and return specific information depending on the context of the CitiScape.  Here, different exercise information will be presented, depending on the role of the CitiScape, which in turn depends on the role of the user.  The time facet may be used to determine in which situations or times information is available; for instance, in case of a health emergency, users visiting any of the health CitiScapes may be redirected to a CitiScape dealing specifically with emergency services and information.  Thus, for example, the items from the table above could be dynamically assembled into the identified CitiScapes in Figure 4.  These CitiScapes cater to the interests of different users based on their context of interaction    Figure 4: Example CitiScapes associated with Health  4. Application Benefits of CitiScapes Architecture  In this section we explore the more strategic benefits of the CitiScape architecture further  Business Intelligence Mining  CitiScape architecture realizes that the knowledge of the services that the user needs is available only partially with the user while the Government itself holds a lot of that knowledge.   Hence, a symbiotic interaction is facilitated by CitiScapes between the user and the Government.  With every step in the interaction, the user reveals more of his interest and context of interaction and the system narrows these services and pushes them to the user.  The interaction sequence could be also monitored as follows 1  A user enters the system through a general CitiScape providing value for location and time  2  When a user is identified as a citizen, the system knows that the user could be interested in spaces like Citizen Finding Healthcare, Citizen Emergency, Citizen Staying Healthy, but they could also be interested in other spaces like job opportunities, community events, filing taxes etc They could even be interested in more specific spaces like Senior Health or Family Health.  This provides intelligence on populations and in certain areas  3  If the user indicates interest in finding healthcare the system narrows down the services that it will push to the user. So, the focus now will be on spaces related to healthcare as opposed to spaces related to employment or taxes, for example.  The user may then access an item like general exercise tips or finding a doctor.  Thus, the spaces of Citizen, Staying Healthy, Citizen Finding Healthcare and Citizen Emergency will be relevant for this level of interaction.  Now we have a significant understanding of the users interests The user may choose to stop at this level if their need has been met, or he may continue interacting with the system to get more services.  This type of telescoping can provide significant understanding of trends within populations as well 4  Next if this user is a senior citizen, they could enter the CitiScape for senior citizens and now access additional items or even view the same items from the perspective of a senior citizen.  So if they want to look at exercise tips, they could find those specific to senior citizens in this CitiScape.  They would also be able to find other information such as nutrition, common ailments and access services such as participation in community events for senior citizens.  They could access a general service like finding the nearest doctor or hospital but could also access a specific service such as finding a doctor specializing arthritis, since they are now a part of the Senior Health CitiScape.  Thus, they are now looking at not only those services that they initially thought they wanted, but also related services in which they would now be interested, even if they weren t aware of them initially.  Again, this provides insights into new needs   In summary, this sequence illustrates several aspects 1\he user has an intuitive and progressive interaction with the system that provides needed services, 2\e sharing and reuse of items like exercise tips across spaces and in contexts that are both general \(as in the Citizen Staying Healthy CitiScape\r more specific \(as in the Senior or Family Health CitiScapes\d finally, 3\ the dynamic population of the spaces based on citizen interaction to provides significant intelligence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Dynamically enhanced navigation and user experience In a traditionally organized website, the citizen might begin at the city homepage, and traverse links through a structure that is often organized by department.  We can think of the CitiScape architecture and navigation path as a continual narrowing down of the user s intent until the user arrives at a place where they can complete their intended interaction.  However, even this generalization is optimistic for many government web presences which have become cluttered and disorganized due to the rapid increase in demand for online services and the lack of time and/or experience necessary to keep all of the information contained in a web presence accurate, timely and organized.  In addition, the internal organization structure \(e.g departments\ is not an appropriate structure for navigability.   For instance, given a certain service need, how would a citizen know whether his or her request should go to the Public Service or the Public Safety department?  As shown in the previous section CitiScapes addresses these issues by providing views of services relevant to users, their roles and interests and the additional facets that account for their individual context for using the system  Improved reuse and searchability  The overall approach used at all levels is to dynamically populate the CitiScapes and the items within them with content.  The content objects themselves are all maintained in a self-contained and local fashion and used whenever and wherever they meet the criteria.  This occurs not only when populating the CitiScapes but also when developing content.  To illustrate the point, suppose a content provider role needed to add a new news story to Getting Health Care In the proposed layered CitiScapes architecture, the news story would be a specific independently maintained object with a collection of attributes, such as Title, Author, Date Created, Date of Expiration, Summary, Body, and Subject, along with additional attributes to define its position in an underlying taxonomy and its applicability to various CitiScapes.   Instead of creating all of the attributes values uniquely, the content role will have the opportunity to select from existing objects as values for attributes of the news story object Selecting an object and content that most likely already exists in the system enforces reuse of the existing information, avoids duplication, and specifies a dynamic relationship between the two objects Getting health care and news story.  Next a query can be easily constructed to find any news story releases related to a given subject Moving to such a dynamic approach also allows us to take advantage of semantic querying.  For example logic and ontology languages such as RDF and OWL can be used to express relationships between objects and facilitate flexible queries and searches, as well as inference  Improved services The role facet allows great flexibility of user access to objects in a CitiScape-based system.  It supports the integration of various services using data from the enterprise directory and CMS-based user registration as well as profiles gathered from user behavior and online transaction activity As the users in different roles narrow their intent by navigating and providing values for the different facets that the CitiScapes are built on; the system pulls appropriate service items based on accumulated knowledge about the particular user.  For instance, if there exists some profile or cookie information indicating that the given user has used the website many times to find information on public parks, the system might direct them to a CitiScape having a focus on parks or outdoor activities.  If we know that the user is a citizen of the city, the system will direct them to a citizen-centered CitiScape, as opposed to directing a visitor to a visitor-centered CitiScape. This two-way interaction will help us identify those services that are used often and in what context, those that are not used and even what CitiScapes are effective.  Thus the information can help the government strategically to develop services that are more specific to the citizens  Service Use and IT Traceability A CitiScapes implementation improves the ability to collect and mine relevant information about how when, and where services and information are used For example, we can now track for each object which CitiScapes are being used to access it, and thereby know which user groups and roles are associated with its use.  Combining this information with traditional web presence metrics such as length of time spent viewing information or completing a service navigation patterns, and frequency of access will allow more user-centric performance data to be gathered Deriving patterns from these observations will allow the government organization to truly understand the needs and habits of the citizenry, and incrementally improve the services and information it provides Additionally, we will be able to provide business-IT traceability, because we also know which back-end system each object is residing in, and therefore track the usage of these systems in order to provide better analysis of technology use  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


5  Conclusions  Structuring an eGovernment system around the concept of CitiScapes will provide significant benefits to users of the system as well as administrators and stakeholders.  The dynamic population of CitiScapes presents users with services chosen to match their roles and needs, thereby affording the opportunity to push  highly relevant services to a user in addition to retrieving information to satisfy a given need, while ensuring trustworthiness and security by only providing services that the user can access based on their role.  The organization of services by relevant facets gives users easy access to needed services without having to understand how the government organization is structured.  The support for underlying information objects and relationships provided by the CMS allows the connection to be made between the different dimensions of the portal environment; it is now possible to keep track of when, where, how and by whom services are being used, and gather this information to provide performance feedback to the system for future improvement. In addition, the reusability of information and service objects across multiple CitiScapes increases maintainability of the web presence by centralizing the change process away from pages toward services.  Finally, we envision that eventually the support for CitiScape-type features will be incorporated into CMS systems to enable better socio-technical interactions   6.   References  1 H M G o v e r n m e nt. T r a n sf or m a tiona l G o v e r n m e n t Ena b le d  by Technology. TSO, Norwich, UK, 2005  2 Hille r, Ja nine S., Be la ng e r F. P r iv a c y Stra te g i e s  f o r  Electronic Government. The PricewaterhouseCoopers Endowment for the Business of Government Report, January 2001  3 Mc C l ure  D  G o v e rn m e nt T r a n sf or m a tion: G e tting Joined-Up Governance Right. Gartner, Inc., September 2007  4 D i Ma io, A  G ove rnm e nt a nd W e b 2.0: T h e Em e r g i ng Midoffice. Gartner, Inc., September 2007   DiM a io  A  W h at Do es W e b 2  0  M ean to G o vern men t Gartner, Inc., March 2007  6 D a w e s  S., Eg le ne O  N e w  m ode ls of c o lla bora tion f o r  delivering government services: A dynamic model drawn from multi-national research Proceedings of the 2004 Annual National Conference on Digital Government Research, 2004   I P S V Bo ard Int egrat e d P u b l i c S e ct o r  Vo cab u l ary   Version 2.00. Porism Limited, SW9 8BJ, 2006  8 L a m b e  P  O r g a nis i ng K now le dg e  Ta x onom ie s   Knowledge and Organisational Effectiveness. Chandos Publishing Ltd, Oxford, 2007  9 T o lone W A hn, G P a i, T  H ong S. A c c e s s C ontr o l i n  Collaborative Systems. ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 37 No. 1, March 2005, pp. 29 41  10 Ni ta-Ro taru  C L i N. A Frame w o rk f o r Ro le-Based  Access Control in Group Communication Systems. ISCA 17th International Conference "Parallel and Distributed Computing Systems". San Francisco, CA, USA. 15-17 Sept 2004  11 But l e r T Cole m a n, D  Mode ls of Colla bo ra tio n  Collaborative Strategies, September 2003 http://www.collaborate.com/publication/newsletter/publicatio ns_newsletter_september03.html   12 Ce nte r f o r D i g ita l G o v e rnm e nt. Eng a g e Cre a ting e Government that supports Commerce, Collaboration Community and Commonwealth. e.Republic Inc., 2007  13 Ci ty of  T a m p a  Ta m p a G ov  http www ta m pa g o v ne t  14 Ci ty of  A u rora CO. htt p w ww a urora g o v org   15 Be lk in N. J   Cr of t, B 199 2 Inf orm a tion f ilte ring  and information retrieval Communications of the ACM  35 12\, 29-38  16 Ce nte r f o r D i g ita l G ove rnm e nt http://www.centerdigitalgov.com/index.php   17  Sing a pore I n f o m a p. http w w w sg    18 Ma c M a n us R i c h a r d. EG o v e r n m e nt Me e t s W e b 2.0  ReadWriteWeb, November 5, 2007  19 L i bra r y of Cong re s s  Sum m it on Se ria l s in t h e D i g ita l Environment Glossary http://www.loc.gov/acq/conser/glossary.html   20 USA g ov ht tp www usa gov   21 Dire c t G o v  htt p w ww dire c t g ov uk    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 to request, review, and propose changes to the current state of the science plan Distributed Operations 227 Cassini distributed all aspects of the instrument operations to the science teams. Science Teams were required to develop the spacecraft commanding for pointing the spacecraft. Th is significantly complicated the interfaces and coordination required by the JPL science and sequencing teams. The distribution of internal instrument commanding and monitoring instrument health and safety worked well. Dedicated full-time operations personnel were required at all instrument sites. The liaison between the distributed sites and JPL required definition of a strong JPL Investigation Scientist \(i.e., Experiment Representative\le Distributed operations is a two-edged sword. Scientists personally worked operations and were better able to optimize for their science objectives. Their insight provided the feedback necessary to quickly respond to science discoveries in the science selection and uplink processes This allowed the operations team to capitalize on truly extraordinary opportunities to a degree not thought possible However, this was at the cost of doing science analysis and publishing science results Software Development 227 The Cassini mission deferred most of its ground software development until post launch. In fact, considerable effort was spent accelerating the development of the tools required to plan the Jupiter flyby observations in 2001. For the start of the science integration for Cassini\222s prime mission, many of the ground software planning tools were immature or unavailable. To compensate, homegrown tool development occurred at the instrument sites and within science planning. System engineering of these types of ground software tools was lacking. A better paradigm would have been to develop the operations and ground system\222s architecture, requirements models, and software to a level sufficient to support operations pre-launch. Sufficient project resources needed to be applied to Phase B/C/D development. The science planning tools should be developed to a sufficient level during these phases such that th ey can be used as part of evaluating the ground and flight system requirements and capabilities. Based on this evaluation, refinements could be made during cruise and throughout the mission to the unified ground and flight system architecture and software requirements Programmatic  Project Science 227The orbiter consists of 8 Principal Investigator \(PI\struments and 4 Facility Instrument with corresponding Team Leads. In a ddition, there are 5 different science discipline teams: Rings, Saturn, Titan, Icy Satellites and Magnetosphere. The Project Science leader ship needed to be highly involved in the tactical and strategic science planning activities. The consensus building culture used on Cassini was time consuming. The Project Science support staff should be funded adequately to allow the Project Scientist to participate in the integration process. Clear Project Science guidelines are very helpful Instruments 227 Instrument Flight Rule development must be mature pre-launch. Instruments should be designed to minimize impacts on the operations of the other instruments, e.g., radiator placement. Data compression internal to instruments is vital. For Cassini, the science instruments had internal sequencing memory for storing instrument commanding for upcoming sequence. This allowed the science teams th e ability to send real-time noninteractive instrument commands that bypass the sequencing process by using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP  In-flight Testing 227 The targeted gravity assist flybys provided a unique opportunity to exercise the ground system on realistic science data acquisition scenarios that simulates the operational environment during the Tour phase of the prime mission. This also had the advantage of providing the science instrument teams an opportunity to acquire useful science data for the purposes of instrument checkout and science data analysis. The in-flight exercises should use the processes, procedures, software, and ground system capabilities in the same manner, to the extent possible, as will be used during Tour and Orbital operations The entire flight team \(mission planning, science planning sequencing, spacecraft, naviga tion, and science teams should be fully engaged to provide the maximum benefit to the Project 7  C ONCLUSION  Even though Cassini was a NASA flagship mission maximizing the science return was a challenge to science planning operations. Decisions aimed at saving both prelaunch and operations costs added considerable complexity to both the spacecraft and the ground system. Among the key ones were removing the scan platform, opting for distributed operations rather than co-location, and delaying development of some flight software and most of the ground system until after launch Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed to overcome those challenges as presented in this paper should be of value to other deep space science missions.  Future missions should carefully consider the following advice 200  Pay careful attention to operational scenarios in development cost saving decisions, both spacecraft and ground. Additional, more sophisticated commanding constructs may be required in operations to compensate for lack of spacecraft capabilities. Ground management of stressed or 


  12 degraded spacecraft components will be labor intensive   R EFERENCES    N. Vanderm ey and B G. Paczkowski 223The C a ssi ni Huygens Mission Overview,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Andrew M i shki n and B a rbara Larsen 223Im p l e m e nt i ng Distributed Operations: A Comparison of Two Deep Space Missions,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006 3 Barb ara Larsen 223Bu ilt Bu t No t Used Need ed  Bu t No t Built: Ground System Guidance Based On CassiniHuygens Experience,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Spi l k er, Li nda J \(edi t o r o  a R i nged Wold\224,NASA SP-533, 1997  Jennifer Long Maxwell, W illiam M Heventhal, III, and Shahram Javidnia, \223The Cassini-Huygens Sequence Development Process\224, 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Paczkowski  B G, \223C assi ni Sci e nce Pl anni ng Process\224 2004 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, May 17 21, 2004 200  Recognize that lack of margin in any resource required for science return will require compensatory staffing. Pr edefined, prevalidated options for resource management such a power modes can compensate. Tools that validate resource allocation are essential 200  Anticipate alternative costs for failing to meet MOS development schedules. The ground system needs to have reached sufficient maturity to support key operations tasks before those tasks commence 200  Distributed science operations introduces delays and complications to sequence development, which must be managed in science planning. System engineering will need to deal with overlap in and conflict between ground systems 200  Acknowledge that complexity in any form\227 spacecraft design, science objectives, MOS architecture\227may be managed to enhance science return but the science planning operations must be funded and structured to manage that complexity The processes to develop science commanding will be lengthy and highly iterative In the end, with an appropriate funding profile, adequate and timely staffing, and effective processes and tools all the facets of mission complexity can be managed to extract amazing science return 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work done by the Cassini-Huygens Flight and Science Teams. Without their efforts the unrivaled science collected by the Cassini mission would not have been achieved This work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technol ogy, under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  251 2008 California Institute of Technology. Government sponsorship acknowledged 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


