Managing Malware in Higher Learning Institutions Zuraini Ismail Department of Science College of Science Technology University Teknologi Malaysia, International Campus Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia e-mail: zurainisma@ic.utm.my Christine Simfukwe Centre for Advanced Software Engineering; Faculty of Computer Science and Information Systems University Teknologi Malaysia, International Campus Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia e-mail: cmsimfukwe@gmail.com Abstract  Malware” is an umbrella term that describes a variety of Internet-borne threats, including viruses spyware,Trojan horses, spam, bots and more. This sophisticated and evolving security threat puts all businesses at 
risk, no matter how big or small. Malware creates unique challenges to Higher Learning Institutions \(HLI\ in protecting their information assets. This is largely due to the fact that HLI Information Technology \(IT\ departments must balance between enabling a highly collaborative, non-restrictive environment and ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data and computing resources. HLIs can proactively defend the network to reduce the risks associated with this threat by assessing the vulnerabilities and threats present in their networks and implementing appropriate multilayer security. A multilayer approach involves applying countermeasures at every layer of the computer network, from 
the perimeter routers and firewalls to users' personal computers in order to increase network security. The goal of this study is to propose a framework for network security protection against malware to increase the level of protection using non technical countermeasures Keywords- component; malware, network security, multilayered approach, non-technical measures, Higher Learning Instructions I I NTRODUCTION As the Internet becomes increasingly critical to HLI students will be accessing more and more content while exposing the network to new and potentially dangerous network security threats [1   E d u catio n a l in s t i t u t i o n s face a  particular set of challenges in fighting malware infiltration 
HLI IT departments must balance between enabling a highly collaborative, non-restrictive environment and ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data and computing resources. Additionally, administrators are challenged to make sense of the explosion of intrusion detection system \(IDS\alerts[2 a cri t i cal  y e t d a u n t i n g  ta s k  given the fact that hackers are infiltrating HLI networks to build botnet command and control servers and exploiting student Web surfing habits for botnet propagation Preventing malware infiltration in this advanced  open network environment needs a multilayered approach. This approach can help HLI to strengthen security across 
wireless and wired LAN networks. It can also streamline and automate analysis to manage theconstant barrage of IDS alerts, and collect crucial malware and botnet intelligence Honeypots \(decoy\ can be used to proactively detect and manage infiltration while enabling network managers and users alike to be more effective. Not only can decoy systems be useful to study and protect against malware and exploitation, but they also can be useful in attracting spammers using a variety of techniques. E-mail received on decoy accounts is likely to be originated from spammers especially if the same \(or similar\il is received on more than one or a very large number of decoy accounts 
The system can collect the data from the decoy accounts and use it directly to generate spam filter rules, effectively preventing classified spam from being transmitted at major Internet service providers \(ISPs\ around the world. As a result, the motives and the tactics of the attacker can be learned II SECURING OPEN ACADEMIC NETWORKS Fast-flowing networks and ready access to high-end computing infrastructures are critical for students, faculty and staff, if they are to succeed in their pursuits. By its very nature, HLIs’ must refrain from imposing too many restrictions, so as to best support uninhibited academic research and discovery. Another unique characteristic of 
academic networks is that while the university owns the network infrastructure, individuals frequently own the endpoint devices such as laptops, Personal Digital Assistant PDA\nd smart phones. This creates very real challenges to maintain the desired level of security within the infrastructure Given the broad range of platforms and applications in use among students, faculty, staff, and guests, there are few commonalities that can be leveraged in implementing new physical and logical security controls. And taking into account the sheer volume and variety of users and devices accessing university resources, plus the reality that IT has 
limited visibility into those endpoints, means that deploying and provisioning \(let alone enforcing\ any new agent-based security controls are difficult at best. Attackers are exploiting these very shortcomings to launch botnet and other malware attacks like phishing HLI need to acknowledge antivirus, intrusion prevention systems and other logical and physical measures alone cannot detect the emerging network security threat that is the result of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack 
2009 Second International Conference on Computer and Electrical Engineering 978-0-7695-3925-6/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCEE.2009.93 607 
2009 Second International Conference on Computer and Electrical Engineering 978-0-7695-3925-6/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCEE.2009.93 607 


and the blending of once distinct types of attack into more complex, covert and damaging forms of attacks which are happening every day [2, 3  A mu ltilay e r e d appr oach i s  needed to provide robust protection with emphasis on non technical measures against Malware while at the same time balancing the “open” environment and security goals. A multilayered approach ensures complete security viz availability, confidentiality and integrity, each layer corresponding to one aspect of security. The layers are sequential and overlapping i.e. layer one followed by layer two followed by layer three, where each layer has some unique features and some features from its previous layers This ensures that each layer is stand alone and isable to effectively block the type of attack \(Fig. 1\ which it is meant to block The security model as shown in Fig.2 is an abstraction used to define entities and how these entities are allowed to interact. A security model begins as a set of definitions on paper, but eventually the model is implemented in software hardware, or both. The implementation should be accurate and adhere to the model specification. If the implementation is flawed, the framework [4 i l l  l ack t h e cap a b il i t y to  provide confidentiality, integrity and availability Figure 1 Multilayered Approach \(adapted from Gupta et al[4  Figure 2 Network Security Model III LITERATURE REVIEW Based on the literature research done, this study has its roots in two previous studies Jones et al. 1993  S c hm i d t  and Arnett, 2005[6  B o th of  t h e s e ha d a g o a l  of e x a m in i n g relatively new malware as it emerged on the computing landscape. In this study both malware and the current antimalware measures will be compared and analyzed Thereafter in-depth studies of several security models will be undertaken to investigate and evaluate organizational network security Current solutions of defense for network security are mostly reactive and static methods, which are used to collect analyze and extract evidences after attacks. This approach includes virus detection, frangibility evaluation, and firewalls and more. They rely upon collecting and analyzing the viruses’ specimens or intrusion signatures with some traditional techniques, such as statistical analysis characteristics analysis, neural network, and data mining However, these approaches result in a slow reaction time to new threats. This is largely due to the lack of self-learning and self-adapting abilities as they can only prevent those known network intrusions, and can do very little or nothing for the unknown intrusions In the real network environment, the incursion threat has risen as well as the attack class numbers. As a result, HLIs are constantly investing in new information technology and in business information systems security in particular. These security expenditures have constantly increased over the last few years [7  T h e e x pe n d itur e  is m o s t l y on wi de ly use d  security tools such as firewalls, antivirus, Virtual Private Networks \(VPNs\, encrypted channels, and more. Although the tools are effective to a certain extent, there are objective shortcomings related to all existing security tools and mechanisms. They solve just the technical side of the security problem and fail to address most of the nontechnical side [8   Figure 3 Proposed Conceptual Framework In this study we propose a conceptual framework \(Fig.3 which focuses on the non technical measures, basically 
608 
608 


dealing with the social layer. This has been compounded by the trends toward mobility, increasing Web traffic and the rising popularity of e-commerce, search and social networking applications \(e.g. facebook, myspace and twitter which have all significantly impacted HLI security. Security of networked systems requires both technical and administrative foundations [9  T e c h n i c a l f oun da t i o ns lik e  those based on cryptographic measures and access control models, are well understood. However the administrative foundation which is based on several non-technical layers added on top of technical ones has taken a back sit. Clearly for malware to be effectively managed there must be a marriage between the technical and nontechnical layers Due to the scarcity of Network Security models specifically addressing HLIs with an emphasis on nontechnical measures, the study will be based on four security models \(SANS’ Network Security Model[10   Neumann [1   B l a c k w e l l   1 2  a nd M i c r o s o f t s D e f e n s e in  Depth  wh ic h w i l l he lp i n  p r ov id ing som e  g u i d a n c e  i n  the development of the proposed network security framework \(Fig. 3\. This framework can be applied not only to HLIs but also any other type of organization In this research in progress study we intend on using both qualitative and quantitative \(mixed\ methods [14 i n  the gathering of information in order to enhance reduction of malware on networks. For the qualitative, we shall interview key technical staff from the HLIs’ IT departments to establish the control measures in use. We shall then conduct a survey \(quantitative\ at three educational institutions to make a comparative analysis of malware landscape by analyzing students’ perceptions on combating malware. The three HLIs were selected for the survey because they are technologically innovated and publicly funded. The unit of analysis to be used will be IT students from the selected HLIs. In order to refine our survey a pilot study will be undertaken at one of the HLIs.There after we shall propose a framework with emphasis on non technical measures using a multilayered approach. In order to validate the proposed framework we shall focus on HLI’s students perceptions towards malware,network security and the existing defense measures  IV CONCLUSION Overall this study examines malware as it affects HLIs and thereafter conducts a survey and comparative analysis of several security models. From the preliminary study, we believe that the malware threat poses a significant and increasing problem for HLIs. Different types of attackers usually attempt different attacks depending on their position privileges and knowledge. Although there is a wide range of technological security measures, there are still very few solutions which largely focus on non technical measures Therefore a well structured multilayered Network Security Framework will give the information security community a way to study, implement, and maintain network security that can be applied to any HLI R EFERENCES 1 M Y C ER T M a l a y s i a  b o nne t  d r o n e s a nd m a l w a r e s t a t i s t i c s  2009  2 M os e s  G a rub a  C hunm e i  L i u a nd N i c k i Wa s h i ngt o n A c o m p a r a t i v e  analysis of anti-malware software,patch management, and host- based firewalls in preventing malware infections on client computers.IEEE Computer Society. 2008. Washington, DC, USA 3 M i kko S i po n e n   D e si gn i n g s e c u r e  i n for m a t i o n s s y s t e m s a n d soft w a r e   Critical evaluation of the existing approaches and a new paradigm 2002. Oulu University Library 4 K ap i l K u m a r G u p t a  B a ik u n t h N a t h S r  Me m b er I EEE  an d Ko t a gi r i  Ramamohanarao. Network security framework, IJCSNS International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, VOL.6 No.7B 2006 151 5 J o n es  M C   A r n e tt  K  P   Tan g  J  T  E an d C h e n  N S Pe rcep t i o n s  o f  computer virus and cross cultural assessment, Computers and Security article 1993.12/19 6 S ch m i d t   M a r k B  an d  Kir k P   A r n e tt Sp y w a r e A little k n o w l e d g e  is  a wonderful thing. Communications of the ACM, 2005. 48\(8\ 67-70 7 M al ay s i a K P MG f r a u d S u rv e y  R e p o r t   N a t u re o f Ma l w ar e  c h a n g e s i n  2001/2002. 2004 8 E l m a r i e K r i t z i nge r S  H  vo n S o l m s   F i v e no nt e c h ni c a l p i l l a r s o f  network information security management, IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, Communications and Multimedia Security Boston Springer \(Pages 277-287\2005 9 S i p o n e n  M  T a nd B a sk e r vi l l e  R  A ne w p a ra di gm  f o r a ddi ng  security into IS development methods. Reprinted from: In: Eloff Labuschagne L, Von Solms R & Dhillon G.ed. Advances in information security management and small systems security KluwerAcademic Publishers,Norwell, MA. 99-111; 2001  J o shu a B a c k f i e l d  N e t w o r k S e c u r i t y M ode l   S A N S I n s t i t ut e  I n f o S e c  Reading Room. 2008 11 Peter G Neu m an n  Pra c t i cal a r ch it ec t u res  f o r Su r v i v ab l e  s y s t e m s  an d  networks. Phase two final report, SRI International. 2000 12 C l iv e B l ack we l l  Mu l t i l a y e re d s ecu rity ar ch it ec t u r e f o r  m o d e l i n g  complex systems: Proc ACM CSIIRW 2008. Vol.288 archive 13 M i c r osoft   D e fe n s e i n D e pt h  M i c r os oft  T e c h N e t  l i br a r y   2 0 0 8   14 C a r o l y n  B   S eam an  Me m b e r  Q u al i t a t i v e m e t h o d s i n em p i ri c a l  studies of software engineering Proc IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 1999.VOL.25, NO. 4  J u l i e B o rt  S e c u ri t y   D e f e ndi ng t h e e x t e nde d e n t e rp r i s e  N e t w ork  World White Papers. 2002 
609 
609 


source points are calculated via fixed-radius nearest neighbor search routines of the ANN library 27 Finally for each target point their nearest neighbor source points are calculated in matrix-vector product calculations involving the covariance matrix C in the ordinary kriging system 5 DATA SETS We generated three sets of sparse data sets For the first set the number of sampled points varied from 1000 up to 5000 while their covariance model had a small range value of 12 For the second set we varied the number of samples in the same manner except that the points covariance model had a larger range equal to 100 Finally we sampled 5000 points from dense grids where points covariance model had ranges equal to a  12 24,100 250 and 500 For each input data set we use 200 query points which are drawn from the same dense grid but are not present in the sampled data set One hundred of these query points were sampled uniformly from the original grids The other 100 query points were sampled from the same Gaussian distributions that were used in the generation of a small percentage of the sparse data 6 EXPERIMENTS We used the SYMMLQ iterative method as our linear solver We set the desired solutions relative error or the convergence criteria for the SYMMVLQ method to 62  10-3 Thus if SYMMLQ is implemented exactly we expect the relative error to be less than 10-3 The exact error is likely to be higher than that We developed three versions of the ordinary kriging interpolator each of which calculates the matrix-vector products involved in the SY MMLQ method differently Gauss Transform GT Computes the matrix-vector product exactly Improved Fast Gauss Transform IFG T Approximates the matrix-vector product to the e precision via the IFGT method mentioned in Section 4 Gauss transform with nearest neighbors GTANN Approximates the matrix-vector product using the GTANN method mentioned in Section 4 All experiments were run on a Sun Fire V20z running Red Hat Enterprise release 3 using the g compiler version 3.2.3 Our software is implemented in C and uses the Geostatistical Template Library GsTL 28 and Approximate Nearest Neighbor library ANN 27 GsTL is used for building and solving the ordinary kriging systems and ANN is used for finding nearest neighbors when using the GTANN approach In all cases for the IFGT and GTANN ap proaches we required the approximate matrix-vector products to be evaluated within e 10 accuracy All experiments results are averaged over five runs We designed three experi ments to study the effect of covariance ranges and number of data points on performances of our different ordinary kriging versions Experiment 1 We varied number of scattered data points from 1000 up to 5000 with a small fixed Gaussian covariance model of range a  12 Experiment 2 We varied number of sampled points This time points had a larger range equal to a  100 for their covariance model Experiment 3 Finally we examined the effect of different covariance ranges equal to a  12 25 100 250 and 500 on a fixed data set of size 5000 7 RESULTS In this section we compare both the quality of results and the speed-ups achieved for solving the ordinary kriging system via iterative methods combined with fast approximate matrixvector multiplication techniques Figure 1 presents results of the first experiment mentioned When utilizing approximate methods IFGT and GTANN the exact residuals are comparable to those obtained from GT The IFGT approach gave speed-ups ranging from 1.3-7.6 while GTANN resulted in speed-ups ranging roughly from 50150 This is mainly due to the fact that the covariance function's range is rather small Since there are only a limited number of source points influencing each target point collecting and calculating the influence of all source points for each target point the IFGT approach is excessive The GTANN approach works well for such cases by considering only the nearest source points to each target point In both cases the speed-ups grow with number of data points Algorithms perform similarly for points from the Gaussian distribution to those from uniform distribution Figure 2 shows results of the second experiment While the GTANN approach did not result in significant speed-ups the IFGT gave constant factor speed-ups ranging roughly from 1.5 to 7.5 as we increased the number of data points The IFGT approach results in larger residuals for small data sets and when solving the ordinary kriging system for query points from the uniform distribution In particular for n  1000 andd n  2000 the performance of IFGT is not acceptable with respect to the exact residuals calculated This poor overall result for these cases is because the SYMM[LQ method did not meet its convergence criteria and reached maximum number of iterations Increasing the required accuracy for the IFGT algorithm by changing the e  10-4 to 10-6 resolved this issue and gave residuals comparable to those obtained from the GT method As the number of points increases the quality of results approaches those of the exact methods For the query points from the Gaussian distribution the quality of results are comparable to the exact method when using the IFGT approach The GTANN approach also results in compa rable residuals to the exact methods in all cases Figure 3 presents results of the last set of experiments In all cases the quality of results is comparable to those obtained from exact methods The IFGT approach resulted in speedups of 7-15 in all cases The GTANN approach is best when 4 


used for covariance functions with small range values of 12 and 25 While the GTANN approach is slower than the exact methods for range values larger than 100 it results in speedup factors of 151 53 and 47-49 for range values 12 and 25 respectively Thus the GTANN approach is efficient for small range values and so is the IFGT approach for large ranges 8 CONCLUSIONS We integrated efficient implementations of the Gauss Transform for solving ordinary kriging systems We examined the effect of number of points and the covariance functions ranges on the running time for solving the system and the quality of results The IFGT is more effective as number of data points increases Our experiments using the IFGT approach for solving the ordinary kriging system demonstrated speed-up factors ranging from 7-15 when using 5000 points Based on our tests on varying number of data points we expect even higher speed-up factors compared to the exact method when using larger data sets In almost all cases the quality of IFGT results are comparable to the exact methods The GTANN approach outperfornned the IFGT method for small covariance range values resulting in speed-up factors as high as 153 and 49 respectively The GTANN approach is slower than the exact methods for large ranges 100 and over in our experiments and thus is not recommended for such cases The quality of results for GTANN was comparable to the exact methods in all cases Please see 26 29 for details of methods used in this work Future work involves efficient kriging via fast approximate matrix-vector products for other covariance functions where a factorization exists We also plan on using preconditioners 2 1  for our iterative solver so that the approximate versions converge faster and we obtain even higher speed-ups REFERENCES 1 I Amidror Scattered data interpolation methods for electronic imaging systems A survey Journal of Electronic Imaging vol I 1 no 2 pp 157-176 April 2002 2 P Alfeld Scattered data interpolation in three or more variables Mathematical methods in computer aided geometric design pp 1-33 1989 3 E H Isaaks and R M Srivastava An Introduction to Applied Geostatistics New York Oxford Oxford University Press 1989 4 A G Journel and C J Huijbregts Mining Geostatistics New York Academic Press Inc 1978 5 P Goovaerts Geostatistics for Natural Resources Evaluation New York Oxford Oxford University Press 1997 6 D L Hall Mathematical techniques in multisensor data fusion Norwood Artech House Inc 1992 7 Y Zhang Understanding image fusion Photogrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing pp 657-661 June 2004 8 N Memarsadeghi J L Moigne D M Mount and J Morisette A new approach to image fusion based on cokriging in the Eighth International Conference on Information Fusion vol 1 July 2005 pp 622-629 9 N Memarsadeghi J L Moigne and D M Mount Image fusion using cokriging in IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium IGARSS'06 July 2006 pp 2518 2521 10 T H Meyer The discontinuous nature of kriging interpolation for digital terrain modeling Cartography and Geographic Information Science vol 3 1 no 4 pp 209-216,2004  1 R Furrer M G Genton and D Nychka Covariance taperincg for interpolation of large spatial datasets Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics vol 15 no 3 pp 502-523 September 2006 12 N Memarsadeghi and D M Mount Efficient implementation of an optimal interpolator for large spatial data sets in Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Science ICCS'07 ser Lecture Notes in Computer Science vol 4488 SpringerVerlag May 2007 pp 503 510 13 L Greengard and V Rokhlin A fast algorithm for particle simulation Journal of Computational Physics vol 73 no 2 pp 325-348 1987 14 L Greengard The rapid evaluation of potential fields in particle systems Ph.D dissertation Yale NYU 1987 15 C Yang R Duraiswami and L Davis Efficient kernel machines using the improved fast Gauss transform in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems L K Saul Y Weiss and L Bottou Eds vol 17 MIT Press 2005 pp 1561-1568 16 V C Raykar C Yang R Duraiswami and N Gumerov Fast computation of sums of Gaussians in high dimensions Department of Computer Science University of Maryland College Park MD 20742 Tech Rep 2005 CS-TR-4767 17 C C Paige and M A Saunders Solution of sparse indefinite systems of linear equations SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis vol 12 no 4 pp 617-629 September 1975 18 S D Billings R K Beatson and G N Newsamm Interpolation of geophysical data using continuous global surfaces Geophysics vol 67 no 6 pp 1810-1822 NovemberDecember 2002 19 C E Rasmussen and C K I Williams Gaussian Processes for Machine Learning MIT Press 2006 20 G Christakos On the problem of permissible covariance and variogram models Water Resources Research vol 20 no 2 pp 251-265 February 1984 5 


Points Over 200 Query Points 15E-4 200 n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5E-4 ct~~~\242 E-1O0\260\260 2000 3000 4000 50 00 2601000 2000 3000 4000 50 00 Number of Scattered Data Points n Number of Scattered Data Points n Figure 1L Expelri:ment 1 Left Average albsolute erro:rs Right Avelrage CPU ti:mes Average Exact Residuals Average CPU Time for Solving the System 0 0 200 300 400 5000 Range of the Gaussian Covariance Function Range of the Gaussian Covariance Function Figure 3 Experiment 3 Left Average absolute errors Right Average CPU times 6 0.02 20 2 5002E-3 242 IF G T IFGT G 1E-3 GlA _ L lIFGT 2EG4A 12 100 200 300 400 5 Points 0.04 270 Over 200 Query Points CPU Time for Solving the System Over 200 Query Over 200 Query Average Exact Residuals Average 120  0.02              W I E I 100  0.01 4 1 IFGT  5 IFGTI GTAN-N GTANIE-1$00 2000 3000 4000 5000 1s00 2000 3000 4000 5000 Number of Scattered Data Points n Number of Scattered Data Points n Figure 2 Experiment 2 Left Average absolute errors Right Average CPU times Average Exact Residuals Average CPU Time for Solving the System Over 200 Query Points Over 200 Query Points 


21 Y Saad Iterative methods for sparse linear systems SIAM 2003 22 S G Nash and A Sofer Linear and Nonlinear Programming McGraw-Hill Companies 1996 23 L Greengard and J Strain The fast Gauss transform SIAM Journal of Scientific and Statistical Computing vol 12 no 1 pp 79-94 19911 24 V C Raykar and R Duraiswami Large Scale Kernel Machines MIT Press 2007 ch The Improved Fast Gauss Transform with applications to machine learning 25 T Feder and D H Greene Optimal algorithms for approximate clustering in Proc 20th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing 1988 pp 434-444 26 V C Raykar Scalable machine learning for massive datasets Fast summation algorithms Ph.D dissertation University of Maryland College Park MD 20742 March 2007 27 D M Mount and S Arya ANN A library for approximate nearest neighbor searching http www.cs.umd edu/mount/ANN May 2005 28 N Remy GsTL The Geostatistical Template Library in C Master's thesis Department of Petroleum Engineering of Stanford University March 2001 29 N Memarsadeghi Efficient algorithms for clustering and interpolation of large spatial data sets Ph.D dissertation University of Maryland College Park MD 20742 April 2007 BIOGRAP1H[Y Nargess Memarsadeghi is a computer engineer at the Information Systems Division ISD of the Applied Engineering and Technology Directorate AETD at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center GSFC since July 2001 She received her Ph.D from the University of Maryland at College Park in Computer Science in May 2007 She is interested in design and development of efficient algorithms for large data sets with applications in image processing remote sensing and optics via computational geometry and scientific computation techniques Vikas C Raykar received the B E deM gree in electronics and communication engineering from the National Institute of Technology Trichy India in 2001 the M.S degree in electrical engineering from the University of Maryland College Park in 2003 and the Ph.D degree in computer science in 2007 from the same university He currently works as a scientist in Siemens Medical Solutions USA His current research interests include developing scalable algorithms for machine learning Ramani Duraiswami is an associate professor in the department of computer science and UMIACS at the University of Maryland College Park He directs the Perceptual Interfaces and Reality Lab and has broad research in terests in scientific computing computational acoustics and audio computer vision and machine learning David Mount is a professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Maryland with a joint appointment in the University's Institute for Advanced Computer Studies UMIACS He received his Ph.D from Purdue University in Computer Science in 1983 and since then has been at the University of Maryland He has written over 100 research publications on algorithms for geometric problems particularly problems with applications in image processing pattern recognition information retrieval and computer graphics Hle currently serves as an associate editor for the journal ACM Trans on Mathematical Software and served on the editorial board of Pattern Recognition from 1999 to 2006 He served as the program committee co-chair for the 19th ACM Symposium on Computational Geometry in 2003 and the Fourth Workshop on Algorithm Engineering and Experiments in 2002 7 


used to match the type of the play and Java functions extracted the specific information However to be useful this information must be matched with the ontology To this end the type of play was translated into a specific subclass of the PlayType class while the context of the play was used to determine the appropriate subclass of the Play class and to fill in the properties of these two classes The names of the players involved in the play were used to find the actual instances of the specified Player in the ontology taken from the roster files By reading the rosters and creating the teams first we can leverage the actors in this way when ontologizing the events of the game This helps protect the validity of the data by ensuring that all references to an individual actor refer to the same entity regardless of how they are referred to in individual events This point is best clarified with an example To use the previous example from the Boise St vs Oklahoma game by referring back to the input files we ensure that all references in the play-by-play to Jared Zabransky Zabranksy number 5 for Boise St or any other tangent reference to a property are referring to the same Player in the ontology Maintaining data integrity in this way goes to the heart of using an ontology which strives to eliminate all reference ambiguity in the data The final step established above for ontologizing the data was to write the data to permanent storage The necessity of performing this step is predicated upon whether a database connection was established in the beginning or not In the early development of both domains we represented the ontology using Jena s memory model which stores the model and its associated triples in memory However given that combat simulations can produce many gigabytes of data with the number ever growing an alternative was required as every time the program was run with the memory model it crashed due to running out of heap space As Figure 2 suggests establishing a database connection quickly became one of the few viable options Towards these ends an Oracle lOg database was used to house the data due to Oracle's commitment in the 10g and the subsequent release of the 1 Ig to store RDF triples uniquely as opposed to performing a conversion to a traditional relational database every time Putting the information into the database had the desired benefit of greatly expanding the constraint on file size Additionally once the database was established optimizations could be performed on the data storage to improve the access speeds of common queries By putting the information in a sufficiently large database parsing becomes a truly one-time expense where it never has to be repeated If a database is used the program no longer has to read in the template ontology at the beginning and then write the output ontology to a file for permanent storage at the end Instead the program can simply establish a connection to the database when started and it then has access to all of the preexisting data including the template ontology 7 ANALYSIS Up to this point we have described in extensive detail the problem definition how the template ontology was created and how the data was extracted and combined with the template ontology to form the structured output We will now examine the methods we used to analyze the data For both domains the major obstacle to performing analysis of significant depth is the massive amount of data associated with the event In order for analysts to answer substantive questions they must be able to efficiently filter the data for the information pertinent to the question at hand To achieve this data filtering we used SPARQL.6 The benefit of SPARQL for our application is that it allows for the easy creation of what we referred to as N-th order queries that filter the data to preciously what we need in accordance with the ontology By N-th order queries we mean a SPARQL query that has multiple layers or orders of filtering that restrict the data This is best seen through an example For illustrative purpose we will again use the Boise St vs Oklahoma game Let's say an analyst was interested in finding out if Boise St had any big pass plays when they were deep in their own territory The occurrence of such plays would speak to Boise St.'s ability to use big plays to change the game as well as to provide some barometer for how conservative their play calling on offense was As such the analyst might develop a SPARQL query that has an equivalent English sentence of Give me all the completed passes thrown by Boise St where they were on their own 25 or less that went for 15 or more yards This particular query is a fifth-order query Explicitly the layers of filtering are 1 completed pass 2 Boise St 3 own side of the field 4 less than 25 yardline and 5 gained 15 or greater yards To answer the posed question such an occurrence occurred twice in the Boise St vs Oklahoma game The first was a 19 yard gain from Jared Zabransky to Legedu Naanee starting at the Boise St 17 at the beginning of the second quarter and the other was a 36 yard completion from Zabransky to Derek Schouman starting at the 22 yardline on the last drive of regulation The ability to perform such N-th order queries is absolutely critical to operations analysis in combat simulations A sample question an operations analyst might ask for in a scenario is Give me all the times a F-22 on a DCA mission was shot and killed at by a specific SAM type within a geographic region bounded by minimum and maximum latitudes and longitudes This is a ninth-order query where the layers are 1 shot fired 2 kill resulted 3 target of F-22 4 attacker of a specific SAM type such as SA-10 5 F-22 mission of DCA 6 shot location greater than minimum latitude 7 shot location less than maximum latitude 8 shot location greater than minimum longitude and 9 shot location less than a maximum longitude Given unstructured nature of the output data from most 8 6htro ii uerV 8  1 11 I_ 


simulations answering such questions previously required extensive datamining that could take at least hours if not days to perform and was highly susceptible to error However a SPARQL query could return the results in tenths of seconds for small data sets and minutes for very large datasets Plus if the parse is well formed and properly debugged there is no chance for errors either returning a false positive or an omission Another tremendous benefit received from the structuring of the data and querying it with SPARQL is the increased ease of debugging the definition of the scenario This is not necessarily a problem in football but it is a significant issue in combat simulation The very large scenarios blessed by the government to represent certain encounters of interest have thousands of platforms each individually created with unique properties As such even a low error rate yields a non-trivial amount of mistakes some of which could profoundly affect results Many man-hours are sunk into validating the details of a scenario such as the networks of the IADS or the command chain of platforms all of which is tedious Several well placed SPARQL queries can help greatly reduce the scenario debugging time and make the debugging less cumbersome in the process One of the lone downsides to employing the abovedescribed methodology for data mining and analysis in the combat simulation domain is the lack of familiarity of most analysts with these techniques While the learning curve is shallow schedule and mindset challenges limit most seasoned analysts ability to learn about Java RDF ontologies and SPARQL To help facilitate the creation of N-th order queries we developed a GUI to wrap around the code in the combat simulation domain The GUI was developed using NetBeans Matisse GUI developer and made creating N-th order queries simply a manner of selecting the desired options on the GUI As a result the analysts did not need to be Java programmers with extensive RDF knowledge in order to use the program Instead they simply needed to have knowledge of the domain which is already a prerequisite for performing the analysis 8 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The combat simulation domain is faced with the problem of having several different tools that represent data that is fundamentally the same in their own unique way The domain requires a method for combining disparate data into a common ontology as well as a way to then mine through the masses of data and filter out only that which is relevant to the current analysis In this paper we proposed a solution to this problem using RDF ontologies to commonly represent the domain and SPARQL queries to filter the results Due to the propriety classified nature of the work however we developed and presented a solution to a similar domain that being analyzing college football College football was chosen due to its similarities to the combat simulation domain which include 1 the output comes from a variety of sources represented in their own unique way but typically from ASCII text chronological log files 2 both domains contain ASCII lists of actors performing actions specific to the domain 3 both domains allow for a limited number of actions yet require tremendous ontological flexible within the actions and actors and 4 both domains require analysts to apply many-order filters to extract the desired in-depth information The bulk of the paper focused on the specifics of how the ontology was created how the ontology was combined with the data and finally the methods used in querying the data To these ends Stanford's Protege was used to create the ontology A Java program was then used to parse the data from input and output files after which the information was combined with the template ontology through the use of the Jena Semantic Web Framework or Jena The data were stored in an Oracle lOg database for permanent storage SPARQL was then used to query the data with a GUI assisting in this process The work yielded some significant conclusions SPARQL provided a simple methodology for creating the N-th order queries required by both domains Furthermore the execution of these queries provided access to data and answers to questions in seconds that required hours or days to get previously This drastic reduction in time and increase in the ease of use could literally transform the modem day combat simulation analyst from a glorified data miner back into an analyst Abstracting away the data mining and post-processing allows the analyst to focus on the forest instead of the type of bark on the trees in the forest Furthermore the unification of several sources into a common ontology allows for the analyst to be an expert in the entire domain not an expert in a specific tool Furthermore the encoding of the output into an ontology helps ensure the validity of the data and provides for additional scenario debugging assistance The validity of the data is augmented by the fact that the ontology eliminates all ambiguity in which entity is being used regardless of how it was referenced as well as any ambiguity in the definition of a certain event The assistance in debugging the scenario comes from the use of SPARQL queries on the input to the scenario such as verifying the members of a network in the IADS or the command chain of the platforms The SPARQL queries help provide quick access to the information and allow it to be displayed in a manner that is less cumbersome to crosscheck This allows for faster debugging of the input scenario REFERENCES Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 2OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-guide_ 9 


3 http1//ena.sourceforge.net 4 http www.w3.org/TR/rdf-spargg-quary BIOGRAPHY Brian Mihok is a software engineer at Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently working on modernizing the methodology used by the Operations Analysis group with the approaches described in this paper and on adding autonomy to Lockheed's small UAVs Mr Mihok graduated from the University of Colorado at Boulder with two B.S degrees one in Aerospace Engineering and one in Computer Science He also attended MIT where he received a M.S in Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals In the past twenty-two years he has lead and participated in numerous knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and domain models in the military unmanned systems domain He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


