GenExplore Interactive Exploration of Gene Interactions from Microarray Data Yong Ye Xintao Wu Kalpathi R Subramanian University of North Carolina at Charlotte  yye,xwu,krs  uncc.edu Liying Zhang Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center zhangl2@mkscc.org Abstract DNA Microarray provides a powerful basis for analysis of gene expression Data mining methods such as clustering have been widely applied to microarray data to link genes that show similar expression patterns However this approach usually fails to unveil gene-gene interactions in the 
same cluster In this project we propose to combine graphical model based interaction analysis with other data mining techniques e.g association rule hierarchical clustering for this purpose For interaction analysis we propose the use f Graphical Gaus s i an Model to discover pairwise gene interactions and loglinear model to discover multi-gene interactions We have constructed a prototype system that permits rapid interactive exploration of gene tionships 
1 Motivation With the description of complete genome sequences DNA microarray technology has become a powerful means for genome-wide expression pro\223ling and analysis It allows the simultaneous examination of thousands of genes in a single experiment The raw microarray images are transformed into gene expression matrices where the rows usually denote genes and the columns denote various samples conditions or time point s The uniqueness of microarray data is that genes in rows are of very high dimensionality e.g 10 3 
10 4 genes while samples in columns are of relatively low dimensionality e.g 10 1 10 2 samples The challenge is to rapidly and ef\223ciently extract useful information and discover knowledge from the data such as gene functions gene interactions regulatory pathways metabolic pathways and effects of environmental factors We have been building a prototype system which allows user to explore and analyze gene interactions effectively and ef\223ciently The core of the system is gene interaction anal 
ysis using Graphical Gaussian Modeling GGM and loglinear modeling We subject the input data of GGM and loglinear model to the output of other data mining techniques e.g clusters from hierarchical clustering frequent item sets from association rule mining prior to analyzing gene interactions Our system also enables domain users to interactively explore gene teractions by adding or removing genes based on domain knowledge 2 System Overview Our goal is to explore inter-relationships between a subset of genes To make this process intuitive and ef\223cient we propose to combine interactive techniques and informa 
tion visualization with data modeling First we subject the input data to ierarchical clustering or association rule mining prior to analyzing gene interactions Subsets of genes clusters or frequent itemsets are then analyzed for pairwise gene interaction using GGMs The graphical gaussian model method is statistically sound and computationally tractable for analyzing microarray data and inferring biological interactions from them However it can only detect dependencies that are close to linear In particular it is not likely to discover combinatorial effects e.g a gene is over expressed only if several 
genes are jointly over expressed but not if at least one of them is not overexpressed To discover combinatorial effects we apply loglinear modeling which assumes multinomial distribution and requires a discretization of the data During this process the users may explore the output of both GGMs and loglinear models interactively given the inaccuracies and limitations of modeling methods 3 Demonstration The program has features that allow its users to choose association rule or hierarchical clustering to get subsets of genes For each subset the independence graph is generated by using GGMs The users may interactively add r 
remove some genes from e independence graph and e new independence graph will be generated interactively In our demonstration we will also show the combinatorial effects from loglinear modeling using parallel coordinate techniques More information on the project can be found via http://www.cs.uncc.edu xwu/bio/GenExplore.html Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE\22204 1063-6382/04 $ 20.00 \251 2004 IEEE 


This filtering due to the minimum required support is also critical in reducing the number of derived rules to a manageable size The task of discovering an association rule is to find all rules X Y such that s is greater than or equal to a given minimum support threshold and a is greater than or equal to a given minimum confidence threshold The first step is to discover all the frequent item sets candidate sets that have more support than the minimum support threshold specified The second,step is to generate association rules from these frequent item-sets. The computation of finding the frequent item-sets is much more expensive than findling the rules from these frequent item sets Therefore we only focus on the first step SP w PARALLEL FORMULATIONS BASED ON THE FP-GROWTH The parallel algorithm of FP-growth includes two steps Step one is the construction of the frequent pattem trees and step two is the actual mining from these trees  A Datastructure The data structure defined below consists of a global header table and local frequent pattern trees for all processors 1 The global header table consists of global counts for each frequent item and entries corresponding to each processor. Each entry consists of two fields 1 item-name and 2 head of node-link which points to the first node in the local frequent pattern tree carrying the item-name 2 Each node in the local frequent pattern trees  consists of three fields item-name count and node-link where item-name registers which item this node represents count registers the number of mnsactions represented by the portion of the path reaching this node, and node-link links to the next node in the FP-tree carrying the same item-name or null if there is none B  The parallel formulation based on the 1"-growth woks as follows If p is the total number of processors, the original database is initially partitioned into p parts of equal size, each one is assigned to a different processor, and stored in its local disk A first initial scan of the database identifies the frequent 1 itemsets.Each processor locally numerates the items appearing in the transactions at hand Afl:er enumeration of local occurrences a global count is necessary to identify the frequent items This count is done in pruallel where each processoi is allocated an equal number of items to sum their local supports into global count Finally in a sequential phase infrequent items with a support threshold are weeded out and the remaining frequent items are sorted by their frequency This list is organized in a table called header table, where the ited and their respective global support are stored along with pointers to the first occurrence of the item in each frequent pattern tree Construction of the local parallel trees The second scan of the database constructs a frequent pattern tree for each available processor For each transaction read by a processor only the set of frequent items present in the head table is collected and sorted in descending order according to their frequency These sorted transaction items are used in constructing the local trees as follows for the first item on the sorted transactional dataset check if it exists as one of the children of the root If it exists then increment the support for this node Otherwise add a new node for this item as a child for the root node with 1 as support Then, consider the current item node as the newly temporary root and repeat the same procedure with the next item on the sorted transaction During the process of adding any new item-node to a given local FP-tree of a processor p a link is maintained between this item node in the tree and its entry in the global header table corresponding to processor p The header table holds as many pointers per item as there are available processors C Parallel mining frequent item-sets Building the local frequent pattem trees is not final goal but a means with the purpose uncovering all frequent pattems without resorting to additional scans of the data. The mining process starts with a bottom up traversal of the nodes on the local FP trees where each processor mines fairly equal amounts of nodes The distribution of this traversal work is predefined by a relatively small sequential step that precedes ihe mining process This step sums the global supports for all items and divides them by the number of processors to find the average number of occurrences that ought to be traversed by each processor If A is this found average this sequential step goes over the sorted list of items by their respective support and assigns items consecutively for each processors until the cumulated support is equal or greater than the average A At this stage all frequent pattern trees are shared by all processors The task of the processors, once assigned some items is to generate what is called a conditional pattern base starting from their respective items in the header table. A conditional pattern base is a list of items that occur before a certain item in the frequent pattern tree up to the root of that tree in addition to the minimum support of all the item supports along the list Since an item can not only occur in many trees but also in many branches as in 6 If the suppsrt of an item is less than the,minimum support threshold it is not added in the frequent string v DYNAMIC LOAD BALANCING IN DATA MINING It is pointed out in paper 6 the overhead spent on constructing tree is much more that spent on mining the FP tree So the efficiency of the algorithm much depends on the overhead of the process of constructing the FP-tree In the first phase of that process the transaction data is equally distributed among the processors and the computation of the local support in each processor is independent of other processors, therefore, 'that would not result in load imbalance due to task distribution However in the second phase of construction of the local trees although the size of data-sets 384 


distributed to each processor is the same the sum of occurrences of frequent items that each processors process is much different Therefore the size of the constructed local parallel tree is not the same Moreover the overhead of maintaining the link between the items is much different.fiom others due to the differences of tree structure Only applying the static distributing strategy will result in load imbalance dramatically and deficiency of the algorithm The dynamic distributing strategy must be taken to achieve the goal of load balance We use a improved method based on random pooling scheme 12 In this scheme, as a processor becomes idle that is it finishes its portion of allocated work it randomly selects a donor processor and sends it a request The donor processor sends a response indicating whether or not it has additional work If a response indicating that a donor has additional work it will receive a certain amount of transactions from the donor processor The amount of time required by the two parallel Otherwise the processor selects another donor and sends a formulations will decrease as the number of processor work request to that donor The time-point that the donor increases and good speedup was achieved Comparing the gives response to the processor sent the request affect the various instances of PFP against DPFP we can see that for result of balancing The request processor could he blocked each one of the different experiments DPFP achieves long when waiting the response from the donor The simple comparable or substantially lower run-times In particular the way is the donor processor responds immediately after dynamic improvement is due to the fact that the number of processing the current transaction. However it will reduce the frequent items in the transactions distributed to each processor benefits obtained from the balancing when interrupted is not the same and leads to highly unbalanced computations frequently which the DPFP can balance by dynamically moving work To address the problem, an improved method is defined between the processors When the size of transaction database as follow the donor processor gives response after changes from lOOK to IM the performance of PFP decreases accomplishing Up p is the number of processors of its rest while better speedups were achieved while using DPFP work and informs the request processor how long it should algorithm as the number of processors increases This wait If the request processor can still be blocked for a long improvement is due to the fact that the capability of balancing time it will send a request to the other processor Another the work of DPFP becomes better when the size of transaction important factor that affects the result of the balancing is size database increases of workload that assigned to the request processor If it is too small the request processor will becomes idle very quickly On the other hand it cannot give respond when another processor sends it a request Worse the donor processor will be blocked after redistributing the workload A wise way is that the donor Processor assigns of its workload to the processor that sends request This can maintain the relative balance after redistributing the task If the request Processor does not receive any Work after a circle request it will send a request which has more priority The donor processor that receives the request will give a response upon dealing with the current transaction Table I the amount of time  in seconds\and required by the parallel formulations and the speedup that was achieved VI CONCLUSIONS In this paper we implement the shared-memory parallel algorithm based on p-~~~~th The formulation is the number bf process increase However as number of processors increases the accuracy by which the workload can be estimated decrease and the computation became increasingly un-balanced To overcome that problem we developed a new dynamic load balancing algorithm which was able to achieve speedups as the number ofprocessors increase able to achieve good speedup VI EXPERIMENT EVALUATION We evaluated the parallel formulations based on the FP growth algorithm on a 16-processor intel MEYER STL2 cluster consisting of 4 nodes Each node consist of 4 processors 1GB memory and 72GB HD OS is Microsofl windows 2000 and the parallel computational environment is MPI The minimum support is 1 The experiment was designed to evaluate and compare the performance of the parallel FP-growth and the algorithm using our dynamic balance mechanism REFERENCES I M.S Chm J Ha and P.S Yu Data mining An overview from database penpective IEEE Transactions on knowledge and Data Eng 01 8 no 6 pp 866-833 Dec 1996 121 R Agrawal and R Srikant Fast algorithms for mining association rules in Pmc. 1994 Int Conf Very Large Databases, pp 4874P9 Sept 1994 3 J Pd M Chen and P Yq An effective hash based algorithm for mining association m1es.l in ACM SIGMOD Intl Cant Management of Data,pp 175-186.May 1995 4 M.J Zaki. "Parallel and distributed aSSDeiation mining: A survey IEEE Concurrency Special ISSW on parallel Mechanism far Data Mining 01 7.m 4 pp 14-25 Dee 1999 385 


Motwani and J D Ullman 223implication rules for market 224 in Roc 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Int Conf Management of 5-264 May 1997 6 J Han J Pei.and Y Yin, \223.Minging frequent patterns without candidate generation.\224 in,ACM-SIOMOD,Dallas 7 S Parthasarathy M J and and M Ogiham 223l~arallel data mining for association rules on shared-memory systems,\224 Knowledge and Infonnation Systems An International Joumal vol3 no 1 pp 1-29, Feb 2001 SI 1 Han and M Kambcr 223Data Mining Concepts and Techniques. Morgan Kauhimn\222\222 200 1 9 M Houstma A Swami 223Setsrianted mining of association rules in relational datab-.\224 in4 1 lth Intl.Conf: Data Engineering 1994  Agrawal and R Srikant 223Fa algorithms lfor mining association   rules,\224 in Proc  ofthe 2Oth.VLDBGonferenc I 1]A Savasere E Omiecinski and S Navathe 151 mining associatidn des in large databases,\224 in PIW Of the 21st VLDB Conference pp 43243.1995  121 G Ananth 3 Anshul IC oeOrge,.and IC Yipin 223Introduction to Parallel Computing Design and Analysis of Algoiithns,\224 2nd Edition Redwood:Adison Wesley Puslishing Company. 2003 13]R Agrawal and 1 Shafer 223Parallel mining of association NI=,\224 IEEE transactions on knowledge and Data Eng vol8 no 6, pp 962-969, Dec 1996 14]D.W Cheung J Han V Ng A Fu and Y 17u 223A fast distributed algorithm for mining association rules,\224 in Proc 1996 Int Conf. Parallel and Distributed Information Systems pp 3 1-44 Dec 1996 15]M.J Zaki S ParthaSarathy M Ogihnra and W Li 223New parallel algorithms for fast discovery of association rules.\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  An International Joumal 1,1997 16]E Han G Karypis and V Kumar 223Scalable parallel algorithms for mining association rules,\224 IEEE TransactianS 011 Knowledge and Data Elig.,vol 12 no 3 MayIJune 2000  17lD.W. Cheung V Ng A Fu and Y Fu 223&cieiit mining of association rules in distributed dat&ses,\224 IEEE tmnsa~tions ion Knowledge and Data Eng no 8 pp 911-922 19 386 


  Proceedings of the F o ur th Inter n ational Conference on Ma c h ine Lear ning and Cyber n etics  Guangzhou, 18-21 A ugust 2005 d i f f eren tiate sin g l e p a th tree, so th e alg o r ith m is sim p lified   4  Th e QFP-g r owth can b e called   o n l y i n con d ition  o f  su m o f coun t o f tem p _ r oo t\222 s ch ild m i n i mu m su p port th i s  can reduce the call num ber of procedure evi d ent l y  Fi gu re 5 t o  7 sh o w t e m por ary r o ot co nst r uct i o n o f  exam pl e dat a b a se.. E x ec ut i n g pr oce d u r e of QF Pgr o w t h i s  showed i n t a bl e 4   Fi gure 5 t e m porary root aft e r generat i ng f4  Fi gure 6 t e m porary root aft e r generat i ng fc4  Fi gure 7 t e m porary root aft e r generat i ng fca3 5 Experiments and Results The g o al o f t h e e xpe ri m e nt s i s t o fi nd  out t h e ext e nt  of di f f e r e n t dat a set pr ope rt i e s t h at cou l d af fect t h e p e rf or m a n ce of QFP-gr ow th an d PFPTC alg o r ith m s an d t h e relative performance com p ares with FP-g ro wt h al g o rithm  Dat a set s  are gene rat e d wi t h  t h e dat a  ge nerat o r by  IB M QUEST FP-growth is p r o v id ed b y t h e orig in al au t h ors  Ex peri m e nt s are pe rf o r m e d on a Pe nt i u m 4 1 8G Hz P C  w ith 512 Mb R A M ru nn ing  on  W i ndo w  X P A ll p r og r a m s  are co m p lied with th e sam e  co m p iler  Exp e rim e n t al resu lt s sh ow th at QFP-gro w t h is co m p etitiv e. It is ef ficien t and  scal abl e fo r m i ni n g l a r g e dat a bases or dat a ware h ouse s S ee fi gure 8 t o 10    Figure 8. Scalability of QFP-gr owth with respect to support wi t h si ngl e run   2106 


  Proceedings of the F o ur th Inter n ational Conference on Ma c h ine Lear ning and Cyber n etics  Guangzhou, 18-21 A ugust 2005  Fi gure 9. M e m o ry C o m p ari s on  Figure 10. Experim e nts result of PFPTC 6 Concl u si on In t h i s  pa per   we ha ve i n t r o duce d an ef fi ci ent  paral l e l  i m p l e m en tatio n  of an FP-T ree con s tru c ting al g o rith m an d  an im p r ov ed  meth o d QFPgr ow th for con s tru c ting  frequ en t pat t e rns f r om FP-t r ee  QFP gr owt h ca n ge nerat e  fre q u en t p a ttern s withou t con d ition a l p a ttern-b ase an d con d itiona l  FP-t r ee  gene ra t i on an d t h e f r eq ue nt pat t e r n s are ge ne rat e d in o r d e r  Ou r fu ture research work is t o u s e th e m e th o d  in t o  im pl em ent a t i o n of S Q L ba sed hi ghl y  s cal abl e FP t re e st ruct u r e c o n s t r ai nt b ased m i ni ng of fre que nt pat t e rns   sequ en tial p a ttern s, m a x p a ttern s p a rtial period icity an d ot her i n t e rest i ng frequent pat t e rns m i ni ng References 1   R. Ag rawal and R Srikan t Fast alg o rith m s  for m i n i n g  associ at i on rul e s. In VLDB 22294, pp. 487-499  2   R. J. Bayard o. Ef f i cien tly m i n i ng long p a tt er n s  f r o m  dat a bases. In SIGM OD\22298, pp.85-93 3   Zak i M J.; Parth a sarath y, S.; Og i h ara, M.; an d Li W 19 9 7 Ne w Alg o rithm s  f o r  Fast Dis c ove ry of Asso ciatio n R u les. In  Pro c  of th e Th ird In t\222l Co n f  o n  K now ledg e D i scov er y i n  D a t a b a ses and D a t a Min i ng  283-286  4   Lin  D  I an d K e d e m  Z. M. 199 8 Pin cer-Sear ch  A  New Alg o rit h m for Disc ove rin g the M a xim u m  Fre que nt Set  I n Pr oc o f t h e Si xt h E u r o pea n C o nf o n  Ext e ndi ng Dat a baseTechnol ogy  5  Par k J S.; C h en, M.S a nd Y u P  S 1996 An Effective  Ha sh Based  Alg o rithm fo r M i ni ng  A s so ciatio n  Ru les. In  Pr oc. of t h e 199 5  A C MSI G M OD C o nf on Man a g e m e n t of  D a ta 175-186 6   Brin S.; Mo twan i, R Ul l m an J.; an d  Tsur S 19 97   Dyn a m i c Ite m set Cou n ting an d Im p licat io n Ru les fo r Market Bas k et Data. In Proc of the 1997 AC M S I GM O D C o nf O n M a nagem e nt of Dat a  255-264  7   J  P e i  J   H a n  a n d R  M a o  C L O S E T  A n E f f i c i e n t  Al g o ri t h m f o r M i ni ng  Fr eque nt C l ose d  It em sets  P DF Pro c 2 000 A C MSIG M OD I n t. W o rk sh op on  Dat a M i ni n g a n d K n owl e dge Di sco v e r y  D M KD 00   Dal l a s, TX, M a y 2000 8  K. Wa ng  Y  H e  an d J. Ha n, M i ni ng Fre q ue nt  It em sets U s ing Su ppo r t Con s tr ai n t s Pr o c In t. Con f  on on  Very La rge  Data Bases  V LDB 0 0  C a iro Egy p t  Sept 2000 9  J. Ha n J Pei   and Y  Yi n   M i ni ng Fre q ue nt Pat t e rn s with ou t Cand i d ate Gen e rati o n PDF Slid es c  20 0 0  AC M SI GM O D I n t  C o n f   on M a na gem e nt of  Dat a SIGM OD 00 l a s, TX, M a y 2000 1 0  Gra h ne G Z h u JF  Hi g h pe rf orm a nce m i ni ng o f  m a xim a l freq u e nt i t e m s et s. In P r oc  of t h e 6t h S I AM  I n t'l W o rk sh op on H i gh Per f o r m a n ce Data Min i ng  HPDM 2003  1 1   W a n g H Xiao ZJ  Z h an g  HJ Jian g S Y   Parallel alg o rith m fo r min i n g m a x i mal frequ en t p a ttern s. In  Zh ou XM ed. A dva nce d  Pa ral l e l  Pro cessi n g  Tech nol ogi es   A PPT 20 0 3  LNC S 2 8 3 4  Hei d el be r g   Spri nger-Verl a g, 2003. 241-248   2107 


my mcdor    lday mcdow day mndol Figure 6 Change of similarity for the adaptive system with different sliding window lengths 5 Conclusion We presented an adaptive framework for an intru sion detection system that uses fuzzy association rule mining We introduced technical issues that need to he addressed to develop an adaptive intrusion detection system The framework was supported by some encour aging experimental results We showed that false alarms are issued if the profile is not changed at all or is always changed regardless of the traffic pattern There was one occasion when our new system issued a false positive that we could not explain One drawback of the data collection process was that we assumed that the first week\222s data that was used to build the initial profile represented normal activities only There was no way knowing if abnormal behavior had occurred If it did it was incorporated as a part of the normal behavior There are some issues that we plan to investigate in the future We worked with only a single profile In an actual working environment it would he necessary to develop different profiles for different times of the day or different periods of the week e.g weekends For example we can have two different profiles for a sin gle day, one for daytime hours, one for nighttime hours Again we have not addressed the problem where a time window contains both intrusive data and non-intrusive data representing a behavioral change We need to perform some drill-down operations to individual rules to distinguish between intrusive and non-intrusive pat terns There is also another area in which adaptation could be applied The system performance is sensitive to the fuzzy parameter values The system in its cur rent status works with a static set of fuzzy membership function parameters determined at the Keginning But these values could also be tuned dynamically References l R Agrawal T Imielinski and A Swami 223Min ing association rules between sets of items in large databases\224 Proc SIGMOD\22293 Washington D.C May 2628 1993 pp 207-216 2 R Agrawal and A Swami 224Fast algorithms for mining association rules\224 Proc VLDB\22294 Santi ago Chile September 12-15, 1994 pp 487-.199 131 S Bridges and R Vaughn 223Fuzzy data mining and genetic algorithms applied to intrusion detec tion\223 Proc 23rd Nat\222l Information Systems Secu rity Conf Baltimore MD October 16-19 2000 4 D Cheung J Han V Ng and C Wong 223Main tenance of discovered association rules in large databases An incremental updating technique\224 Proc ICDE\22296 New Orleans LA February 26  March 1 1996 pp 106-114 5 D Cheung S Lee and B Kao 223A general incre mental technique for updating discovered associa tion rules\222\222 Proc DASFAA\22297 Melbourne Aus tralia April 1-4 1997 pp 185-194 6 M Hossain 223Data mining approaches for intrusion detection Issues and research directions\223 Proc IASTED SEA\2222000 Las Vegas NV November 6 9 2000 pp 205-210 71 W Lee S Stolfo and K Mok 223Mining audit data to build intrusion detection models\224 Proc KDD\22298 New York City NY August 27-31 1998 pp 66-72 SI W Lee and S Stolfo 223Data mining approaches for intrusion detection\224 Proc 7th USENIX Security Symp SECURITY 22298 San Antonio TX Jan uary 2629 1998 pp 79-94 191 J Luo and S Bridges 223Mining fuzzy association rules and fuzzy frequency episodes for intrusion de tection\224 Int J intelligent systems Vol 15 No 8 pp 687-703 2000 lo R Mukkamala J Gagnon and S Jajodia 223Inte grating data mining techniques with intrusion de tection\224 Proc 13th Ann IFIP WG 11.3 Working Conf on Database Security Seattle WA July 26 28 1999 ll L Nandlal N Sarda, and V Srinivq 223An a,dap tive algorithm for incremental mining of association rules\224 Proc DEXA\22298 Vienna Austria August 24-28 1998, pp 240-245 12 C Rainsford M Mohania and J Roddick 221\221Incre mental maintenance techniques for discovered clas sification rules\224 Proc CODAS\22296 Kyoto Japan December 5-7 1996 pp 281-284 13 S Thomas S Bodagala K Alsabti and S Ranka 223An efficient algorithm for the incremental upda tion of association rules in large databases\224 Proc KDD\22297 Newport Beach, CA, August 14-17 1997 pp 263-266 3103 


Confidenee  0 ote  i U 0 pmoFe MM,atOW 1 Normnalized number 0  X r ofoccuerence C Fig 8 Increasing or decreasing of the confidence of a track From 1 the confidence Y-coordinate is reported 2 3 on the equivalent normalized number of event X-coordinate Then we decrease or increase the value 4 and report it on the confidence axis 01~~~~~~~~~~1 0 2 0.4 eo 0.8 normalized number of occurrence Fig 9 From the figure 8 template curves are generated with Bezier functions That allows to have pessimistic   0.5 or optimistic D  0.5 strategies for the tracking VIII CONCLUSION We have presented the Gruyer and Royere framework This tool allows to realize a tracking with a management of tracks appearance and disappearance In this framework the decision is taken according to a global belief criteria This decision is good when the conflict is weak but if it is not the case some local suspicious associations can appear We present in this article a method based on a MHT approach to avoid these suspicious associations Two tree generation strategies have been developed The proposed system allows to filter the false alarms Thus the higher levels are not aware of these false alarms but by an internal MHT treatment the system keeps the suspicious targets and analyzes them in the time with the use of virtual objects REFERENCES 1 R K Ahuja T L Magnanti and J B Orlin Network Flows Theory Algorithms and Applications Prentice-Hall 1993 2 A Appriou Multi-signal discrimination by the belief theory De'cision et reconnaissance des formes en signal Traite IC2 Information Commande Communication Edition Hermes 2002 Fig 10 The global system can took two different decisions according two different procedures The decision in the informative mode removes the suspicious association whereas the internal mode keeps this association in order to treat them 3 Y Bar-Shalom Multi-target Multi-sensor tracking  Applications and Advances vol.II Artech House 1992 4 Y Bar-Shalom Multitarget-Multisensor tracking Applications and Advances voLIII Artech House 1999 5 S Blackman and R Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House 1999 6 D Gruyer and V Cherfaoui Multi-objects association in perception of dynamical situation In Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence Stockholm Sweden 30 July I August 1999 7 D Gruyer C Royere and V Cherfaoui Heterogeneous multicriteria combination with partial or full information In Fusion Cairns Australia July 2003 8 S Jouannin Data association and fusion Application to localization and tracking with embedded intelligent vehicle radar PhD thesis university Blaise Pascal of Clermont-Ferrand 1999 9 H W Kuhn The hungarian method for assigment problem Nay Res Quart 2 1955 10 M Rombaut Decision in multi-obstacle matching process using dempster-shafer's theory In AVCS'98 pages 63-68 Amiens France 1998 11 C Royere D Gruyer and V Cherfaoui Data association with believe theory In Fusion Paris France July 2000 12 V Schmidlin Multi-sensors muti-targets tracking with neurals networks Application to air targets PhD thesis Nice-Sophia Antipolis University 1994 13 Ph Smets Belief functions In Non-standard logics for automated reasoning pages 253-286 Academic Press Londres 1988 E.MAMDANI H.DuBoIs et H.PRADE 14 Ph Smets Belief functions the disjunctive rule of combination and the generalized bayesian theorem International Journal of Approximate Reasoning 9:1-35 1993 15 Ph Smets Managing the combination of conflicting belief functions 2004 16 Albena Tchamova Jean Dezert Tzvetan Semerdjiev and Pavlina Konstantinova Target tracking with generalized data association based on the general DSm rule of combination In Per Svensson and Johan Schubert editors Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Information Fusion volume I pages 392-399 Mountain View CA Jun 2004 International Society of Information Fusion 929 


 170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397   180 0.569 0.611 0.472 0.486   190 0.494 0.553 0.529 0.588   200 0.314 0.372 0.267 0.314   Avg. 0.379 0.413 0.406 0.443  The comparison of average precision of top-20 on ten topics is listed in Table 4. The measures of keyword-based models \(tfidf and pr number of 0.4. Whereas the figures of pattern-based models \(PTM-1 and PTM-2 be over 0.5. This implies that both PTM models improve the precision of the top returned documents Table 4. Average precision of top20 ranked documents on the ten topics  tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   Avg. 0.400 0.406 0.505 0.515  Figure 3 illustrates the effect of introducing the pattern-based methods on the P/R curves on the topic 110, which can represent the trend of all topics. In Figure 3, as the PTM models are applied, their P/R curves lift up and indicate the improvement of performance made by the PTM models 6. Related work and conclusion Mining sequential patterns has been extensively studied in data mining community since the first research work in [1]. The earlier studies which focused on the large size of retail datasets have developed several Apriorilike algorithms in order to solve the problem of discovering sequential patterns from such databases However, the Apriori-like algorithms only perform well in databases consisting of short frequent sequences [17 This is caused by the fact that it is quite time-consuming to generate nTerms sequences candidates from \(n1 disadvantage of Apriori-like algorithms [1], a variety of algorithms such as PrefixSpan [17], SPADE [25 SLPMiner [22] and GST [12] have been proposed. In order to improve the efficiency, each algorithm pursues a different method of discovering frequent sequential patterns, which makes them featured by the capability of mining such patterns without even generating any candidates With respect to the representation of the content of documents, some research works have used phrases rather than individual words [21]. However, the effectiveness of the text mining systems was not improved very much. The likely reason is that, a phrasebased method has  lower consistency of assignment and lower document frequency for terms  21]. Hence, in this paper, we present a novel concept for mining text documents for sequential patterns. Instead of using single words, we use pattern-based taxonomy to represent documents. By pruning meaningless patterns which have been proven to be the source of the  noise   in this study, the problem of  overfitting  is solved and the experimental results which show the encouraging outcomes are achieved 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Recall Pr e c is 


is io n PTM-2 PTM-1 Pr tfidf Figure 3. Precision/Recall curves on Topic110 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Some future research works can be conducted based on the results of this research. To improve the accuracy one major direction is to extract and use the interesting information from negative or unlabeled documents. The weighting scheme of discovered patterns can then be optimized References 1] R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant  Mining sequential patterns  Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Data engineering \(ICDE  95 pp. 3-14 2] H. Ahonen, O. Heinonen, M. Klemettinen, and A I. Verkamo  Applying data mining techniques for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections  Proceedings of the IEEE Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries \(ADL  98 1998, pp. 2-11 3] M. L. Antonie and O. R. Zaiane  Text document categorization by term association  ICDM02 Maebashi City, Japan, 2002, pp. 19-26 4] Y. Bi, T. Anderson, S. McClean  A rough set model with ontologies for discovering maximal association rules in document collection   Knowledge-Based Systems vol.16, 2003, pp. 243251 5] G. Chang, M.J. Healey, J. A. M. McHugh, and J T. L. Wang, Mining the World Wide Web: an information search approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001, pp. 192 6] D. A. Evans, et al., CLARIT experiments in batch filtering: term selection and threshold optimization in IR and SVM Filters, TREC02 2002 7] R. Feldman, et al  Text mining at the term level  Lecture Notes in AI 1510: Principle of data mining and knowledge discovery, SpringerVerlag, 1998, pp. 65-73 8] R. Feldman and H. Hirsh  Mining associations in text in presence of background knowledge   KDD96, 1996, pp. 343-346 9] D. A. Grossman and O. Frieder, Information retrieval algorithms and heuristics, Kluwer Academic publishers, Boston, 1998 10] K. M. Hammouda and M. S. Kamel  Phrasebased document similarity based on an index graph model  Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 pp. 203-210 11] J. D. Holt and S. M. Chung  Multipass algorithms for mining association rules in text databases  Knowledge and Information Systems vol.3, 2001, pp. 168-183 12] Y. Huang and S. Lin  Mining sequential patterns using graph search techniques  Proceedings of the 27th Annual Int. Computer Software and Applications Conf. \(COMPSAC  03 2003, pp. 4-9 13] Y. Li, C. Zhang, and J. R. Swan  An information filtering model on the Web and its application in 


filtering model on the Web and its application in JobAgent  Knowledge-based Systems 13\(5 2000, pp. 285-296 14] B. Liu, Y. Dai, X. Li, W. S. Lee, and P. S. Yu  Building text classifiers using positive and unlabeled examples  ICDM03, 2003, pp. 179186 15] B. Liu, Y. Ma, and Philip S. Yu, Discovering business intelligence information by comparing company Web sites, in: N. Zhong, J. Liu and Y Y. Yao \(eds  Web Intelligence  SpringerVerlag, 2003, pp. 105-127 16] J. Mostafa, W. Lam, and M. Palakal  A multilevel approach to intelligent information filtering: model, system, and evaluation  ACM Transactions on Information Systems 15\(4 1997, pp. 368-399 17] J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, H. Pinto, Q Chen, U. Dayal, and M. Hsu  PrefixSpan Mining sequential patterns efficiently by prefixprojected pattern growth  Proceedings of Int Conf. on Data Engineering \(ICDE  02 Heidelberg, Germany, 2001, pp. 215-224 18] M. F. Porter  An algorithm for suffix stripping   Program 14\(3 19] S. Robertson and I. Soboroff, The TREC 2002 Filtering Track Report, NIST Special Publication: SP 500-251 \(TREC-2002 20] T. Rose, M. Stevenson, and M. Whitehead  The Reuters Corpus Volume1 - From yesterday  s news to today  s language resources  Proceedings of the 3rd Inter. Conf. on Language Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Spain 2002 21] F. Sebastiani  Machine learning in automated text categorization  ACM Computing Surveys Vol. 34, No.1, 2002, pp. 1-47 22] M. Seno and G. Karypis  SLPMiner: An algorithm for finding frequent sequential patterns using length-decreasing support constraint   Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int. Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 23] P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  TSP: Mining top-K closed sequential patterns  ICDM03 2003, pp. 347-354 24] X. Yan, J. Han, and R. Afshar  CloSpan: mining closed sequential patterns in large datasets   Proceedings of SIAM Int. Conf. on Data Mining SDM 03 177 25] M. Zaki  SPADE: An efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences  Machine Learning vol. 40, 2001, pp. 31-60 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


