Document Cycles: Knowledge Flows in Heterogeneous Healthcare Information System Environments  Carsten Østerlund Syracuse University  costerlu@syr.edu  Richard J. Boland Case Western Reserve University boland@case.edu   Abstract  The paper expands our theoretical and empirical understanding of knowledge flows in heterogeneous information system environments. Through an ethnographic study of a U.S. based teaching hospital it was  found that doctors and nurses organize a 
hodgepodge of information systems, some electronic other paper-based or wall mounted into circular patterns. The data allows a description of how these cyclical organized systems oscillate between documents that address a broader and narrower configuration of participants, times, places and content. In doing so, organizational members continuously adjust their system use to meet the level of background knowledge held by their collaborators that is, how intimately their collaborators know the context and the routine work practices at hand.  The cyclical organization of information systems does not prevent breakdowns in knowledge sharing. To avert such problems each cycle starts and ends with a dialog and reflection among collaborators 
1. Introduction Many organizations employ a large array of information systems. State-of-the-art digital media often coexist with systems of various media introduced decades earlier. Formal integration of these heterogeneous systems, however, tends to be sparse employees are left to fend for themselves and incorporate various systems as they struggle to accomplish their work [1 g all t h e s e  heterogeneous systems it often becomes difficult to determine how knowledge flows within and across organizational boundaries, even for people native to 
the work process Most healthcare institutions, relying on a hodgepodge of information systems, exemplify such processes. In a typical inpatient ward, the doctors may use one electronic record system that was initially developed by a local physician, while the nurses utilize a more recently implemented system bought from a large vendor. To complicate matters, the administration often uses an older legacy system, as do parts of the laboratory. In addition, doctors, nurses, and clerical workers interact daily with a large variety of media preprinted forms, paper-based records organized in 
large folders, whiteboards, e-mail systems, and so forth This lack of integration has far-reaching consequences for the entire industry in terms of patient safety, efficiency, coordination, cost, and reimbursement, to name a few m a ny Wes t er n countries, national-level initiatives have begun to address the issue; many have approached this process as an exercise in streamlining knowledge flows and standardizing care in the process of developing and implementing large-scale systems. However, before we engage further in large-scale integration efforts, we 
need to ask the question: how do doctors and nurses integrate heterogeneous information systems and facilitate knowledge flow in the course of their daily work By drawing on an ethnographic study in a large U.S. teaching hospital, this paper aims to answer that question. We will argue that doctors and nurses manage knowledge flows by linking the many heterogeneous systems together in cyclical patterns that follow either staff groups daily shifts or the lengths of a patient 
s stay in a unit. Within each of these cycles, one finds an oscillation between systems that address a broader and a narrower audience. Thus the doctors and nurses continuously write and read their patients histories that offer broader and narrower answers as to which participants, places, times, and information are relevant to a particular patient s care In addition, it is argued that each cycle starts and ends with a dialog and reflection involving the relevant collaborators. These meetings allow the participants to raise questions pertinent to their particular practices 
and repair any misunderstandings that insufficiencies within the knowledge sharing may have caused. Lack of such dialogs often leads to conflicts. The analysis offers a view of not only how different records mediate medical work in different ways but also how these knowledge sharing practices relate to one another and to the larger institutional structures as well  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


2. Theory In parallel to the dissemination of increasingly complex information systems in organizational environments, there is an emerging literature studying knowledge sharing within and across communal boundaries. These studies tend to oppose a purely information-based perspective propagating the abstract meanings and immaterial data communicated via various information systems. Instead this body of work largely draws on a pragmatic and practice-oriented perspective theorizing the social practices going into the manufacturing of knowledge through the manipulations of various material forms. A number of terms attempt to capture the nature of the material forms and practices that go into knowledge sharing e.g.: boundary objects [3o m m unication g e n r es [6  r icolag e [8 rich rep r es en tations 9, 10 ad optiv e structuration and IS m m u table m obile s a n d  inscription devi  an effort to capture the broader sentiments of the literature and avoid the specific theoretical baggage embedded in each term we will draw on the broader notion of document. We define documents as typified and material communication, whether electronic, paper-based, wall mounted or set in stone, invoked in response to recurrent situations Organizational members work within a fluid field where purposes, goals, and practices often shift and comp docu m e n ts s e rv e as s e n s e m a k i ng and knowledge sharing instruments the core of organizational integration by facilitating the creation of shared meaning and purpose as well as the coordination of heterogeneous perspectives among different constituencies and competing demands and interests oth e r w o rds t h e creation   distribution, and use of documents enable an organization to coalesce into loosely coupled alliances and allow people to establish a rational basis for choosing one course of action over anothe  To understand how documents serve as key resources for knowledge sharing among organizational members, we need to look at the two closely intertwined ways in which documents interact with organizational practices. First, documents are selfexplicating devices [14, 17, 18 e y den o te t h eir u s e  by telling the reader how they are to be applied. To put it differently, documents are not solely accounts of work. They are also accounting for work. Documents offer models for practices and thus allow people to coordinate their distributed work [19  Second, these instructions are recognizable to people who are familiar with the settings in which these documents exist. The context provides a resource whereby a user will know what to expect and how to use the document ot h e r w o rds us ers need to know how those documents are bound up with certain kinds of organizational practices The literature on communication genres allows us to further articulate this double nature of documents. A document genre is typified by communicative actions that occur in response to recurrent situations People engage genres to accomplish social actions First, producers of a document try to invoke a particular genre in order to establish the context and conventions for their communication. They do so by denoting a particular purpose, content, form and set of participants, times and places. Second, documents users try to recognize which genre has been invoked and which conventions are in play, so that they may respond appropriately. They do so based on their familiarity with social arrangements and dominant genres in the setting wherein the document exists Document users may draw on prior knowledge about typical communication and its purposes, content, form participants, timing and places The dynamic relationship between documents as explicating devices and users as carriers of contextual background knowledge and genre expectations create an interesting dynamic how much does a document explicate and how much does the user know about the context and genre conventions Take, for instance, a physician who is treating a patient in a large teaching hospital. When writing a summary of her care to other physicians on the ward she assumes that her colleagues know the genre she is invoking and thus the general purpose of her summary vocabulary, pertinent content and relations with other medical and technical staff as well as their work routines. Her colleagues will recognize the genre and make assumptions about the practices that went into the production of the document. However, the patient would most likely be confused if he were to read the document in the chart hanging at his bedside. He does not know the specific genre nor how it relates to the treatment routines and social organization of work on the ward. Even if he understands the medical terminology, he may not understand how the document fits into the work flow and activities of various doctors and nurses Asymmetric access to knowledge does not solely characterize the relationship between caregivers and patients. Even among healthcare providers, one does find various degrees of access to knowledge. Such access to knowledge often depends on the degree to which people are distributed in time and space. The more distributed and mobile people are, the less Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


background knowledge they tend to share, and the more documents need to explicate In short, organizational members create, distribute and use documents to form loosely coupled alliances and make sense of their own and others activities Specific documents tend to be tailored to a group of people with a particular configuration of shared contextual knowledge and genre expectations. Some documents are for people who need little content and clues to understand the purpose, form, place and timing of the communication, whereas other document types support communication among people with little common knowledge \(e.g., patients and providers While such a perspective provides a helpful framework for the study of individual documents, it offers a rather static picture and does not specify the relations among multiple documents 2.1 Relations among Documents One finds an active relationship between documents and organizational members. As documents move among different communities across time and place, their meanings and uses change A n u m b er  of scholars have addressed the issue by arguing that people do not rely on one document to fit all situations rather, people engage in ongoing transformations of documents. They do so in an effort to recalibrate the relationship between the self-explicating powers of a document and the background knowledge that people bring to its use Several laboratory studies, most notably work by Latour and Woolga d Kn orrC e tin a [22], depict the documents leading from laboratory observations to scientific publication and back to new laboratory observations as a series of small transformations or conversions from one document to the next. There are no great leaps in the evolution from a doctor s patient examination longhand notes or instrument printout on the one hand and an article in the New England Journal of Medicine on the other hand, only a series of minute transformations made one document at a time Each of these transformations adapts the former document to a new set of circumstances, social arrangements, and expectations Bolan es th e argum en t a s t ep f u rt h e r b y  describing document transformations as a circular oscillation between broadly and narrowly framed documents. One can describe this continuous process as an oscillation between how much documents explicate and how much background knowledge readers bring to the situation. In situations where colleagues work closely together and know each other s routine practices, documents tend to become terse, relying on nonverbal understandings. The documents do not denote their context or use in great detail. Writers and readers have no need for that level of explicit detail. For instance, a team of doctors on one ward share notes. Their descriptions of events and terminology become shorthand accounts, depending on nonverbal understandings, shared context clues and background knowledge. The integral complexity and self-explicating capacity of the documents are reduced through the writing process as the accounts come close to the experiences and practices of a narrow cohort. As this trend progresses, knowledge sharing with other teams suffers. Ward nurses and specialists do not have the background knowledge required to dissect the documents communication between teams is hindered In the face of this breakdown, documents tend to become more explicit, thus adding contextual data and drawing on broadly recognized genres. They build a more iteratively complex argument to bring their local experiences into the work and experiences of a larger set of participants, times, and places. By strengthening the self-explicating capabilities of documents however, new problems are created. Local practices start carrying the burden of highly explicit documents The doctors find it ineffective to spend time articulating every detail and providing extensive contextual background knowledge to serve a broader audience. They are burdened by the attention to details contextual clues, formatting conventions and elaborate genre conventions. At this point, a reverse shift begins Ward doctors place greater reliance on the reader s background knowledge and implicit understanding of the situations. They place greater emphasis on narrowly recognized genres that focus only on participants, times and places relevant for their immediate practices 2.2 Document cycles From the organizational members perspective, we can depict the integration of heterogeneous information systems as a cyclical process. To mitigate their need to support local practices and, at the same time coordinate with other communities, organizational members oscillate between documents that provide a broader and narrower explication of the content. In doing so, they continuously recalibrate a fundamental dynamic in the relationship between documents and organizational members; how much does the document need explication, and how much can one rely on the background knowledge of its users? This is not an oscillation between two extreme positions one local the other global but a continuous adjustment of communicative practices to address different configurations of participants sharing various degrees Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


of common knowledge about each other s work. Given the distributed nature of organizational work, such cyclical integration becomes central to organizational members and how they make sense of an organizational reality where goals, meanings, and practices often shift depending on the configuration of participants, times and places.  One can expect document genres supporting the practice of a narrow audience to cover a limited configuration of participants, times, places, content, and formatting conventions. As people attempt to reach progressively broader audiences, their document genres will explicate these details in a much more comprehensive fashion These cyclical processes do not preclude misunderstandings and breakdown in knowledge sharing. The reciprocal relationship between documents, their producers and users is fragile and goes to the core of organizational members sensemaking. Document producers likely bring a great deal of background knowledge to their writing, reading editing, archiving and distribution of a document however, as a document makes its way through the organization, users may not be able to bring the same knowledgeable reading to the document. Instead they rely on other means of communication to make sense of the document. Dialog and reflection among collaborators may remedy breakdowns. Such reflexive dialogs allows the different parties to broaden the references to relevant participants, times, places, and content The key to the integration of information systems seems to lie in how organizations manage the continuous breaking down and repair of communication among people who are engaged in locally defined practices but still need to share their knowledge with broader audiences 3. Method & Case Description  To explore the integration among numerous information systems we draw our empirical case from a 15-month, multi-sited ethnographic study in a US based teaching hospital where one author followed pediatric nurses, doctors, and secretaries in their daily work. To protect the privacy of both healthcare providers and patients we have changed all names dates, institutional identifiers, and sometimes the gender of our informants. One author spent approximately 2,000 hours in five primary care clinics one ER, and two hospital wards, focusing specifically on the document related practices associated with patients care as they move within and across healthcare settings. These documenting practices include recording, distributio n, sorting, reading, and interpreting; involving various note cards, preprinted forms, online record systems, flagging systems, racks binders, and whiteboards. Our unit of analysis was the work practices of doctors and nurses in documenting patients care. Documents saturate doctors and nurses  work. Few activities avoid the need to record, sort, or read documents. Thousands of documents were reviewed in the course of the fieldwork and more than five hounded were gathered and analyzed in the course of the research Qualitative ethnographic methods guided our collection and analysis, both of the empirical observations of everyday work practices, and of informal and semi-structured interviews with participants regarding their intentions and perceptions of practice and documents [24Practiceorien ted  theories framed our understanding of how doctors and nurses produce and consume documents, and directed our analysis of transcribed interviews, collected documents, and handwritten and typed field notes  [2731 For the purpose of this article, we focus on the documents used when an infant girl, Anna, is admitted to a general medical floor, 10 East with bronchiolitis Anna has been sick for several weeks and was first sent to Common Hospital by her primary care doctor. Given her young age and complications with her bronchiolitis, Anna was transferred to Kiltham Hospital that specialized in pediatric care. Anna was admitted through the emergency room \(ER\ and spent 17 days in the Intensive Care Unit \(ICU\. From there she was transferred to a general pediatric medical ward, 10 East. By the time Anna is transferred to 10 East her history has been taken countless times and her history and care recorded in numerous documents. This process continues at 10 East, where doctors, nurses clerical staff, social workers, and consultants track Anna s care in more than 15 information systems. The pressing question is how the hospital staff relates these systems to one another through their daily practices In an attempt to limit the scope of the present paper we focus on the corpus of documents utilized in the inpatient ward, 10 East. We found comparable relations among information systems in all other settings involved in this study. We chose Anna s case as a representative of document use repeated countless times daily during the winter months. The case is qualitatively representative in the sense that it reflects the majority of documenting practices by the inpatient ward staff   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


4. Results: Document Cycles One finds many cyclical organized document sequences as Anna moves from primary care, through Common Hospital to Kiltham Hospital and its emergency room \(ER\, Intensive Care Unit \(ICU\d inpatient ward. On the Inpatient floor 10 East, the nurses, interns \(1st year residents\, and senior residents 4th year residents\ each maintain their own document cycles. One is tied to the length of the patient s stay in the unit. The other follows the lengths of staff members daily shifts. These two types of document cycles are empirically derived and characterize distinct but not exclusive communicative practices 4.1 Cycles: the lengths of a patient s stay  Each department across the hospital employs its own sets of document cycles tied to the length of a patient s stay in the particular unit. In each unit the various occupational groups or teams typically will manage their own document cycles. On 10 East one finds three primary document cycles linked to the length of Anna s stay in the ward. One is managed by the nurses, the other two by the interns and senior residents respectively. Each cycle can be broken into three phases: admission, care, and discharge.  Figure 1 depicts this process exemplified by the 10 East nurses  document cycle 4.1.1 Admission Anna arrives in 10 East accompanied by a host of documents, some electronic and others paper-based. These include the discharge papers from each of the settings she traveled through from primary care, through Common Hospital Kiltham ER and ICU to 10 East. These documents all summarize Anna s stay in a particular unit or setting whether Primary Care, ER, ICU or 10 East  Document Cycle Length of Patient Stay Request Forms Admission Call Discharge Call Lab Work Request Forms Medical Record Orders Orders Lab Work Lab Work Flow Sheet  Figure 1. Nurse Document Cycle: Lengths of patient Stay in Unit  As an orderly wheels Anna down to 10 East from the ICU, three meetings take place involving staff from the two units. The ICU chart nurse goes over the ICU nursing transfer sheet with the 10 East chart nurse. The ICU intern in charge of Anna s care meets with the 10 East intern, Marc, in the cafeteria. They discuss the ICU discharge papers written by the ICU intern. The ICU senior resident talks on the phone with the 10 East senior resident, Elisabeth, as they both look at the senior residents online note system containing the ICU senior resident s recordings on Anna Each of the three 10 East staff members outlines the discharge summaries and conversations in separate documents. The chart nurse starts a management plan dedicated to Anna s nursing care on 10 East \(see center of black arrow in Figure 1\e also assigns Karen, one of the registered nurses as Anna s main nurse. The intern, Marc, logs onto the resident note system, an online system known as the resident note system. Elisabeth, the senior resident, logs into the senior resident note system  One can characterize these three systems as evolving documents. The recorded information changes over time and there is no record kept of prior recordings. For instance, the nurses management plan folder contains a number of preprinted sheets in which the nurses pencil in demographic information, a review of Anna s family and social history and a list of current medications and activities related to Anna s current care. If changes occur, the nurse will simply erase an earlier entry and pencil in new information. Likewise Marc and Elisabeth will edit the resident note and senior note as Anna s care changes with no traces of past entries. These electronic documents do not attempt to summarize Anna s care trajectory but simply list current pertinent tasks. These are not legal documents nor do they go into the medical record 4.1.2 While at 10 East The nurses management plans, interns resident note and senior residents  senior note serve as a document backbone for the duration of Anna s 11 days stay on the ward. Many other documents feed to and feed from these three documents, as characterized by the outer rim of documents depicted in Figure 1. The nurses, for instance, draw from the physician orders and progress notes summarizing Anna s medication and care and social service evaluations often when updating the management plans on Anna. The interns may transfer vital signs and other notes from the nurses flow sheet into their resident note. The senior residents and interns daily update their senior notes and resident notes with data from the labs online test result system or the radiology reports. Reversing the flow, the nurses regularly fill out forms for social service requests psychiatric service, home care requests, and security officer requests based on the information kept in the management plan. Interns and senior residents write Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


their progress notes, sub-specialty referrals, and pharmacy prescriptions based on the resident and senior note respectively 4.1.3 Discharge In the last few days before Anna finally goes home Karen, Marc and Elisabeth start working on her discharge papers. Marc is responsible for writing the discharge summary which is the official summary of Anna s stay on 10 East. He bases this document on the resident note as well as prior discharge summaries from Common Hospital, the ER and ICU. Elisabeth has to sign off on Marc s discharge summary and draws on the senior notes as a basis for evaluating Marc s summary. Karen writes discharge instructions to Anna s parents with support from the nurses management plan and Marc s discharge summary. These discharge papers resemble in structure and narrative format the discharge papers that Anna arrived with at 10 East. In short, one document cycle has been completed 4  2 Cycles following the lengths of shifts  Within the first document cycles we find a second type of document cycle following the length of doctors and nurses shifts. As illustrated in Figure 2 the nurses 12 hour shift cycle starts and ends with a nurse report meeting bringing together the outgoing and incoming nurses. The management plans and piles of small pink and baby blue notes cards, known as brain notes fill the conference table. The tired night nurses sit with each of their piles of management plans and one by one go over the patients they have cared for overnight. The nurses briefly discuss each patient and Karen will fill out a pink note card on each of her female patients and a baby blue one for the boys. On Anna s pink note card she records Anna s name, age record number, room number, weights, and bronch obstructions, 02, nebs Q2, No surgery consult today social: mother today. This translates to: Anna s breathing is labored. She should be kept on oxygen O2\d receive nebulizer treatments two times a day The surgery consulting team was supposed to check if she needed to have her airways corrected but they canceled today. Anna s mother will be in today, which offers Karen an opportunity to talk with her about Anna s progress and when she is likely to go home. At the end of the meeting Karen and the rest of the day nurses slip small piles of notes cards into their uniform breast pockets and collect the management plans spread over the conference room table The rest of the day Karen uses the note cards to structure her work. When asked if she wants to join a small group of nurses for lunch she fetches her note cards and flips through them Give me 20 minutes, I just have to give the small bronch girl \(Anna\ a nebulizer treatment As the day progresses Karen updates her note cards. For instance, she notes the surgery consultant s new appointment and the frustration Anna s mother expressed about Anna s long hospitalization. Karen also uses the note cards when filling out her flowsheets and other documents or to record Anna s latest test results, changes in her medication and treatment plans  Document Cycle Length of Shift Nurse Report Meeting Lab Work Progress Notes Orders Request Form Request Forms Social Work Orders Lab Work Flow Sheet  Figure 2. Nurse Document Cycle: Lengths of Shift In the late afternoon Karen gathers her patients  management plans and updates them based on her note cards. There might be changes in medication, new procedures scheduled, test results, or treatment regiments. Just before 7PM, the night nurses start showing up and they gather in the nursing conference room with a clean pile of pink and blue note cards and newly updated managements plans. Karen drops her brain notes in a trash bin heading home The interns and senior residents enact comparable document cycles entrained to their respective shift schedules. Marc and the other interns generate a fresh set of brain notes by printing individual patient entries from the resident note system. Elisabeth and the other senior residents organize their senior notes and private brain notes the same way. Thus, the management plan the online resident notes, and senior notes get updated twice a day 4  3 Oscillation: Broader & Narrower Framing  Within each of the document cycles performed by Karen, Marc, Elisabeth and their colleagues on 10 East we find an oscillation between documents targeting broader and narrower configurations of participants times, places and content. Each of these four elements will be discussed in turn 4.3.1 Participants Each document targets a particular audience and demarcates a group of participants in Anna s and the other patients care. As Karen, the nurse, creates her note cards based on the management plans, she moves from a communal Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


audience consisting of all the nurses in 10 East to an audience of one herself. Toward the end of her shift she reverses the movement by updating the communal document based on her private notes. Likewise, we find a shift in the participants demarcated by each document genre. As seen in Figure 3, the management plan outlines not only the primary nursing team involved in Anna s care, but also the physicians primary care providers, community agencies, and consultants involved in the care, as well as important phone numbers of relevant family members or legal guardians. Karen s private note cards, in contrast denote only the people relevant for Karen s work that day. As illustrated in Figure 4, Karen includes Anna s name and a reference to her mother and the surgery consult. Similarly, Marc alternates between the private brain note and the resident note system used by the four interns currently working on 10 East. When Marc moves from the communal resident note system to the discharge summary he further broadens the audience and participants targeted by the document. The discharge summary encompasses a larger and relatively undefined audience, including primary care doctors, nurses, secretaries, possible clinical researchers, and future care givers, in the case that Anna should ever be hospitalized again 4.3.2 Time & Place The temporal and spatial references change as we move through each document cycle. Karen s note cards outline a relatively narrow temporal and spatial field for her activities within her 12-hour shift guiding her unfolding practices is it time to go for lunch yet  Do I have time to take one more patient before I meet with Anna s mother  Should I give Anna her nebulizer treatment while I care for Beatrice in the adjacent room When she updates the management plan she positions these in a significantly broader spatio-temporal field. The management plan includes references to not only current activities, such as medication but also activities pointing to the past and future, as in the case of a concise medical history, tests, discharge procedures and training, or outpatient care arrangements \(see Figure 3\ikewise, Marc switches between different temporal and spatial references as he uses his brain notes to update his resident note or when he writes Anna s discharge summary based on the resident note Marc s brain notes demarcate a temporal and spatial field for his work during a shift. The resident note system encompasses Anna s stay on 10 East and her discharge summary narrates her care trajectory including care at 10 East and possibly recommended follow up care 4.3.3 Content As the doctors and nurses write and rewrite documents to address different participants times and places they also oscillates between the type of content, i.e., facts, terminology, level of detail, and contextual clues appropriate for each audience. As Karen fills out her note cards during nurse report she crafts documents focusing on her immediate work practices and with minimal contextual clues. Karen s note card on Anna \(see Figure 4\imply outlines the basic information Karen s needs to administer Anna s care. For instance, the card lists Anna s record number and weight all central when Karen fills out a new flow sheet or check if Anna s medication dose is appropriate. The rest of the note card constitutes a simple itinerary of activities Figure 3. Nurse s management plan Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


Karen does not need to specify these activities in any more detail. With seven year tenure on the ward she knows the nurses work rhythm by heart. There is no need to specify Anna s medical history, nor the times she requires oxygen or nebulizer treatments Karen relies on a non-verbal understanding and simply uses her notes as a scaffold to support her unfolding practices. The doctors use their brain notes in a similar fashion. Referring to his brain notes an ER intern explains No one else is going to understand what this means. This is very specific to what I do. Most people just jot notes to themselves -- you know: '5 year old, nasal foreign body, 10 days out of 21 days thick discharge, yellow green, treat with XYZ contact primary.' There is no time line in it; there is no thought process. I know what this means because I am here. But no one else will be able to make sense of it   A n n a  H a u g e  8 4 6 R 8 2  M o s 5  6  k g B r o n c h o b s t r u c t i o n s O 2  n e b s  Q 2 N o  s u r g e r y  c o n s u l t  t o d a y S o c i a l   m o t h e r  t o d a y  Figure 4. Karen s brain notes As indicated by the intern these private notes only work for their author. By the end of a shift the intern will update the resident note and add clues which will orient his fellow interns. Still these remain rather vague and rely heavily on the interns shared knowledge of the patients and the rhythm of work on the ward. In Karen s case, she adds context clues as she edits the management plan. To motivate changes to Anna s diet or personal needs she may add to the concise history field of the management plan. She will only add changes that she deems important to her close community of nurses at 10 East. She writes when the surgery team meeting is scheduled, but she will only summarize her meeting with Anna s mother if information relevant to the nurses comes to light Towards the end of Anna s hospitalization the same process takes place. The resident note system largely consists of a list of patient identifiers and activities. In the process of writing Anna s discharge summary Marc strips away these local coordination tools and adds contextual information by positioning Anna s care on 10 East as the culmination of a narrative starting with her past medical, family history, and diagnosis upon arrival in the hospital The rest of the discharge summary reviews what is considered relevant organ groups for Anna s case or rather relevant sub-specialties involved in her care while at 10 East. In the process of writing the discharge summary Marc adds genre clues broadly accepted in the medical community, involving formatting, and terminology. Senior residents and attending doctors often scold interns for using acronyms and lingo specific to Kiltham Hospital in their discharge summaries. Marc is literally making Anna s history public and portable by turning the resident note list into a narrative with full sentences and specification of authorship. The document cycle is completed Documents oscillate between broader narrower explication  of Participants Times Places Content Format Background knowledge Explicit Documents Br o a d e r N a r ro w e r N a r r o w e r B r o a d e r  Figure 5. Document cycles and their oscillations As summarized in Figure 5, we can depict the two document cycles as a continuous oscillation between a broader and narrower framing of Anna s care. The daily cycles \(small cycles\ embedded in the larger cycle covering Anna s stay at 10 East. These oscillations involve changes to how broadly and narrowly the documents explicate participants, times places, and content. The cyclical integration mitigates the tension between a documents power to explicate its use and the background knowledge people bring to the document. The two triangles in Figure 5 signify the inverse relationship between documents and users. In the top of the cycle we find documents broadly explicating the relevant participants, times places, and content, thus facilitating understanding by people holding little background knowledge. As we move down in the cycle we see a shift towards documents leaning heavily on users intimate knowledge of the work but which offers little guidance to the reader 4  4 Dialog at Beginning & End of Cycles  At the beginning and end of each document cycle one finds interactions involving oral communication The dialogs engage the participants in reflections about their patient s past and future care and stand out as central to the oscillation taking place within each cycle. Doctors and nurses place great emphasis on these meetings. When two interns were asked Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


what time of day they considered the most important they answered in unison Sign-out Here, the doctors update their respective resident and senior notes. Each intern and senior resident will report on their patients to their on-call colleague, the doctor staying in the hospital over night. Their conversations focus on the patients that need the most attention during the night, difficult orders and other urgent tasks. It is a time to recount the work done in the course of the day and establish an itinerary for the night. Likewise, the other meetings engage the participants in dialog about individual cases and/or how to manage all patients under their collective care  Tensions tend to escalate when a document cycle does not start or end with a reflective encounter Interns quarrel locally about the content of their resident notes during sign-out and attending doctors scold residents during rounds; but it is nothing compared to the anger doctors and nurses express when receiving a document from another setting countering their expectations and with no chance to clarify the problem Primary care doctors regularly complain that the discharge summaries that they receive from other health care settings lack information significant to them. One primary care doctor, Frida, with 18 years tenure grumbled one afternoon about a discharge summary, she had received that afternoon from a surgeon who had set her patient s leg after a skiing accident a few days earlier. The teenager, Jacob showed up in her clinic with a swollen leg and a rash After examining Jacob, Frida explained to the ethnographer This is a crappy note [from the surgeon It s no help to me. He [the surgeon does n o t ev en tell m e  what antibiotic he gave Jacob [post operation an d how much. I have no way of telling whether the rash he presents with today is related to the antibiotics  Frida calls the surgeon s office to clarify the issue. The surgeon has left his clinic at 3:00pm. His discharge summary does not provide her enough information to help her diagnose the problem. A flow sheet filled out during the surgery most likely contains the information Frida needs. However, in the discharge papers the surgeon summarized his setting of the leg but does not describe the administration of antibiotic post surgery that to him is probably an inconsequential routine Dialog and reflective encounters play a central role in each document cycle. The dialog allows a heterogeneous groups of healthcare professionals with different responsibilities and routines to mend the relationship between the background knowledge people bring to Anna s care and the degree to which documents explicate relevant participants, times places, content, and form. Such discussions also allow doctors and nurses to question patients history and their care. By engaging with patients histories people with different perspectives on care can suggest changes to the configuration of participants times, places and data relevant for the patient Document cycles lacking routine reflective encounters often leave little chance for the different constituencies to clarify their position and repair the relations between documents and their users 5. Discussion More than ten years ago Star and Ruhdeler [1  o r a practic ebas e d approach to organizational infrastructure and knowledge flows  one that does not depict system integration as a substrate: something upon which something else runs or operates \(e.g., railway system\. Studying how doctors and nurses integrate documents, whether electronic or paper-based, in the course of their daily work allows us to extend such an approach to system integration We find that doctors and nurses continuously transform documents making them relevant to a particular set of participants, times and places. In doing so they adjust the relationship between how much documents explicate and the background knowledge required from the readers. Two such transformations stand out as central First, doctors and nurses engage in a number of cyclical transformations, within which they oscillate between documents addressing a broader and narrower audiences \(see figure 1 and 2\. In doing so they manage to straddle the demands of local work practices and the needs to coordinate with other teams in other times and places Second, as summarized in figures 1 and 2 one finds a number of transformations between the cyclical organized documents \(e.g., nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes, senior notes, etc\d documents peripheral to the cycles e.g., lab work, flow sheets, orders, etc.\ and nurses use their document cycles as the clearing station for a host of document systems. The cyclical organized documents allow people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices. At the same time they draw from their cyclical documents to produce other non-cyclical documents. For instance, Marc and other doctors integrate test results from the laboratory Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


system into their brain notes and later the residence note system. Likewise, they write orders and other request information based on their brain notes The existing literature allows us to capture only parts of these cyclical transformations. Latour and Woolgar [1 d Kn orrC e t i n a 22] w o rk des c ri bes the individual transformations well. The concept of communicative genres of f e rs i n s i gh ts to th e  individual documents and how they might be linked into sequentially organized genre systems. Likewise we could conceive of the documents in the present case as boundary objects bridging the relations among different communities  The cyclical patterns reported here, however present an opportunity to integrate these related practice-based research streams. The concept of communicative genres, for instance, supplements descriptions of document transformation in document cycles. Furthermore, the findings suggest the existence of multiple document types playing different roles in knowledge flows. Boundary objects may not stand alone in knowledge sharing across communities. Rather, they seem to interact with a host of other documents. For instance, one could argue that lab results serve as a boundary object for many groups caring for Anne. As a repository each group can draw from and contribute to the lab result system. Yet, this boundary object does not stand alone. Only when we see the lab result system in relation to the use of nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes and senior notes do we understand the intricate knowledge flow. The boundary object is but on cog in a larger document machinery Reflection and dialog play central parts in the cyclical integration of documents. Confirming findings in the boundary object literature, conflicts are prone to surface when people from different professions, sub-specialties, or local organizational cultures negotiate their often diverging approaches to patient care [3, 4, 32 R e f l ectiv e en co u n t er s allo w  collaborators to recalibrate the reciprocal relationship between documents and organizational members \(i.e document explicates and background knowledge\At the same time these interactions serve as a staging ground for questions that may broaden or narrow the collective work practices. Doctors and nurses may question whether they need more information about the patient s medical history or consider alternative treatment plans. The meetings secure an ongoing reflection on the appropriate course of Anna s care Much like a hermeneutic process, doctors and nurses engage with parts of patients care only to return to a broader picture to interpret the integration of its parts. The movement of their understanding and writing, then, is a constant moving from the whole to its parts and back to the whole [9, 33  Finally, the document cycles offers a window into the institutional structure of the hospital and the temporal and spatial organization of work. We notice how the cycles support departmental divisions and the temporal structure of work in the institution Without these document cycles it would be impossible to maintain the high level of complexity where multiple professions and subdisciplines work together, with somebody present to knowledgably care for Anna 6. Conclusion & Implications The study identifies a cyclical pattern to the knowledge flow in a heterogeneous information systems environment. Drawing on data from the healthcare industry we describe how doctors and nurses organize a host of document systems around a central cyclical pattern involving an oscillation between addressing a broader and narrower configuration of participants, times, places, and content. Numerous documents feed to and from the cyclically organized documents. The constant transformation from one document to the next allows organizational members to manage the reciprocal relationship between how much documents explicate their use and how much background knowledge readers need to bring to the document. This relationship is brittle and despite the many transformations among documents it often breaks down. The research suggests that organizational members build opportunities for dialog into the document cycles in an effort to patch any possible breaks in knowledge sharing The present research is not without limits. It relies on a single in-depth ethnographic study, thereby subjecting it to a set of well-known limitations, most notably restricted empirical generalizability. Despite the limitations, the research has implications for research and practice. First, to fully take advantage of our cyclical notion of documents and integrate the existing practice-based theories require more theoretical and empirical work. For instance, what cyclical patterns do we find beyond the healthcare industry? Second, future research will have to explore how efforts to standardize medical information and facilitate retrieval can coexist with cyclical documenting practices In regard to practice, system design may gain from supporting a host of document types and allow people to transform one document into another document characterized by different configurations of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


participants, times, places, content, and form. Across documents the content may be deceivingly alike. Yet one must keep in mind that each document manages an intricate reciprocal relationship between how much the document explicate and the background knowledge people bring to its use Finally, system designers may distinguish circular integration of documents and documents feeding to and from the cycles. People use their central cycles to manage many other document systems. The cycle allows people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices  7. References 1 S. L  Sta r a nd K  R u h d e l e r  S te ps tow a r d a n e c ology  infrastructure: Design and access for large information spaces ISR vol. 7, pp. 111 - 134, 1996 2 L  T  K ohn, J  M. C o rrig a n a nd M. S. D o na lds o n T o Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, 1999 3  P. R Ca rlile  A P r a g m a tic V i e w of Know le dg e a n d  Boundaries: Boundary Objects in New Product Development Org. Science vol. 13, pp. 442-455, 2002 4 N  L e v i na a nd E Va a s t T h e em e r g e nc e of bounda r y  spanning competence in practice: Implications for implementation and use of information systems MIS Quarterly vol. 29, pp. 335-363, 2005 5 S L  Sta r a n d J R. G r ie se m e r I nstituti ona l Ec ol og y   Translations' and Boundary Objects Social Studies of Science vol. 19, pp. 387-420, 1989  C Bazerm an  S y s t e m o f g e n r es an d t h e en act m e n t o f  social intentions," in Genre and the New Rhetoric A Freedman and P. Medway, Eds. London: Taylor & Francis 1995, pp. 79-104 7 J. Yates & W  Orlik o w sk i Gen re Sy st e m s: Stru ctu rin g  Interaction through Communicative Norms Journal of Business Communication vol. 39, pp. 13-35, 2002 8 C  U  C i bor r a a n d R  A ndr e u  S ha r i ng K now le dg e  across Boundaries Journal of Information Technology  vol. 16, pp. 73-81, 2001  R Han s en and J Ren n ecker Co llective Her m en eu tics in a Systems Development Process Sprouts: Working Papers on Information Systems vol. 6 pp http://sprouts.aisnet.org/6-6 2006 10 R. J  Bola nd, R V. T e nk a s i, a nd D  T e e ni D e s ig ning Information Technology to Support Distributed Cognition Organization Science vol. 5, pp. 456-475, 1994 11 G  De Sa nc tis  M  P o ole   C a p turi ng the C o m p le x i t y  in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory Org. Science vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 1 B  Lat o u r and S  Wo ol gar   Laboratory Life: The construction of scientific Facts Princeton: Princenton University Press, 1986 13 J  G  Ma r c h H o w de c i s i ons ha ppe n in org a niz a tio ns   Human-Computer Interaction vol. 6, pp. 95-117, 1991 14 R. Harp er Inside the IMF: An ethnography of documents, technology, and organizational action San Diego: Academic Press, 1998 15 M  S  F e l d m a n   Order without design: Information production and policy making Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1989 1 K Wei c k  Sense making in organizations Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1995 17 J  S. B r ow n a nd P. D u g u id  B orde rli n e Is s u e s   Human-Computer Interaction vol. 9, pp. 3-36, 1994 18 D E. Sm ith Institutional Ethnography: A sociology for people Oxford: AltaMira Press, 2005 1 C sterlu nd  Do cu m e n t s in P l ace: De m a rc atin g Places for Collaboration in Healthcare Settings CSCW  vol. 17, pp. 195-225, 2008 20 C   s t e r lu nd  G e n re Com b ina t i ons  A W i ndow into  Dynamic Communication Practices Journal of Management of Information Systems \(JMIS vol. 23, pp 81-108, 2007 2 N M  Dixo n   Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22 K  Kn o rr Ceti n a  The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23 R. J  J  B o la n d  A n Ec ology o f D i s t ribute d  P r a c tic e  Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24 M  A g ar Speaking of Ethnography Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25 J  Va n Ma a n e n  T he Fa c t of Fic tio n i n O r g a niz a tiona l  Ethnography ASQ vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26 M  B  M i l e s a n d A  M  H u b e r m a n   Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27  S. R  B a rle y T e c hnolo g y a s a n O c ca s i on f o r Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments ASQ vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28 M. L  Ma rk us T o w a r d a  T h e o ry of K now le dg e Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29 W  J. Orlik o w sk i  K now ing in pra c tic e  Ena c ting  a  collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science vol. 13, pp. 249 273, 2002 30 C  ste r lu nd a n d P. Ca rlil e   R e l a tions i n  P r a c tic e   Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations The Information Society vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31 L  A  S u c h m a n   Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 3  M  S  A c ker m an an d C H a l v erso n  Organ i zat i o n a l  Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, & Trajectories CSCW vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33 R  J  B o la n d  I nf orm a t i on Sy s t em U s e a s a  hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 
 


  12 order, where the Ares V and th e Altair have been placed in LEO prior to the crew launc h, as the launch opportunities expires, pressure could be placed on launch controllers to relax the Ares I launch rules in order to avoid the loss of the Ares V stack in orbit  Table 12. Comparison of Other Considerations Case Cost to Provide Added Loiter Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 0  V-I 4-Day Loiter 0 226  MMOD Protection 226  PV Arrays 226  Additional propellant for re-boost and attitude control  Table 13. Summary Comparison of Final Cases Case PnSL Expected Vehicle Replacement Cost per Crewed Mission Ares I Stack Equiv  Cost to Provide Added Loiter Added PLOC Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 5.4% 0.05 AI 0 1  6,092   V-I 4-Day Loiter 4.7 0.14 AI 0 Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1B In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1.9% 0.06 AI 1B Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter  


  13 Second, differences exist in the programmatic consequences between the loss of an Ares I stack and an Ares V stack beyond the replacement cost. Ares I and Orion flight rates could be relatively high to support ISS and lunar missions Replacing one of these stacks would be a matter of accelerating the next launch vehi cle in the pipeline. For the Ares V and Altair, however the replacement could involve more significant delays. The Ares V itself would be a more expensive and more complex vehicle to replace. The Altair lander presents the greatest complexities. A limited number of landers will be produced for the lunar campaign Acquiring an additional repl acement lander could involve the reopening of production lines. In addition, each Altair will be unique to some degree because of the mission objectives and the cargo that it carries. Finally, the cargo itself would need to be repl aced in the event of a loss Summary Comparison Table 13 summarizes the comparison of the three launch options. In this table, the cells that indicate potential negative aspects for each case are highlighted I-V 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The I-V launch order case resulted in the highest PnSL of the three final cases, with a probability of a missed second launch of 5.4 per mission. However, because of the low cost of failure for this case, it also had the lowest expected vehicle replacement cost at 0.05 AI per mission V-I 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The V-I option with 4-day EDS and Orion loiter has a PnSL that is similar to that for the I-V option at 4.7%. The PnSL for this case was somewhat lower due to the lower complexity of the second launch vehicle. This case, however, resulted in the greatest expected cost of failure at 0.14 AI. In addition, the V-I launch order includes the additional considerations that involve the pressure to relax flight rules and the difficulty in replacing an Ares V stack V-I 14-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227 Of the three options, the V-I 14-day EDS loiter case presented the best PnSL value. The 1.9% PnSL wa s less than half the PnSL for either of the 4-day loiter cas es. However, because of the high cost of failure, the overall expected vehicle replacement cost per mission was similar to that of the I-V 4-day case In evaluating this case, the primary concern, however, was over the other required costs Because of the added boil-off propellant and other described EDS complexities required to support this duration, the baseline 51.0.48 Ares V option was no longer viable. The 51.0.47 Ares V option, with an upgraded capacity, would be required. The DDT&E costs for this upgrade would be large. The cost difference for the Ares V upgrade alone is estimated to be greater than $1B. In addition, the costs to upgrade the EDS, including photovoltaic arrays and MMOD protection, would be added. Although these are one-time DDT&E costs rather than recurring costs, they occu r in a phase of the program where the budget is most restricted In addition, the 51.0.47 design for the Ares V has been reserved as an option in case it is needed because of mass growth or performance uncertainty for the transportation system. If the upgraded design is adopted in the baseline to support a 14-day loiter and a more complex EDS, then no current options are available to provide a hedge against mass growth or performance uncertainty in the transportation system. While further upgrades to the EDS are possible, these upgrades were not considered desirable when the 51.0.48 and 51.0.47 options were down-selected for further consideration by the Constellation Program Because of the requirement to upgrade the Ares V to the 51.0.47 option, as well as the added complexity of the EDS stage, the V-I 14-day loiter case was removed from consideration for the 1\275-launc h launch operational concept While this option offers a significantly lesser PnSL than the other two options at 1.9% ve rsus 4.7% - 5.4%, the added costs and risks associated with this option, particularly costs during the crucial DDT&E period, were determined to be unacceptable. This opinion was reinforced by the results for total expected replacement cost While the V-I 14-day loiter case has a low PnSL, because of the high consequence of failure, the total expected replacement cost was actually somewhat greater than for the I-V 4-day loiter case 10  S ELECTION OF 1 1  2 L AUNCH P OINT OF D EPARTURE O PERATIONAL C ONCEPT  As described previously, the V-I 14-day loiter case was determined by decision makers to involve too much added cost and risk to justify the resultant improvement in PnSL The decision was reinforced by the fact that the second primary metric, the expected cost of failure, was not improved by the V-I case with a longer loiter period The two final cases, the I-V 4-day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter, were compared; the I-V launch order was selected for the baseline point-of-depar ture architecture The PnSL values, which represent the probability of a failure event during the dual launch phase, were similar for the I-V and V-I cases, at 5.4% and 4.7%, respectively. The expected replacement cost per mission was significantly lower for the I-V case, howev er. Even with the cost uncertainty, the I-V case clearly would likely always result in a lower total cost Crew safety was a major consideration in selecting between the two cases. A clear, quantifia ble added risk to the crew exists in selecting the I-V launch order. The crew would be required to endure an additiona l set of launch, loiter, and EDL events in the case of a missed second launch 


  14 However, because the probab ility of loss of crew is conditional to the PnSL, the overall added risk of 1 in 6,092 is considered to be quite small. This is particularly true when the added risk is compared with the overall risks to the crew that are anticipated for a human lunar mission In addition, although they could not be quantified at this point in time, additional crew risks are associated with the V-I launch order. Although no determination can be made at this point whether these range safety risks may be similar in magnitude to the added risks in the I-V case, they certainly cannot be totally discounted The selected I-V case with a 4-day loiter and 90-minute separation offered the most balanced results across the FOMs that were used in this study. The PnSL of 5.4% was larger than other cases but sim ilar to the PnSL that could be achieved in any case if the Ares V was limited to the 51.0.48 option. The consequence of failure in this case was much less than for the V-I case, which resulted in an expected cost of less than ha lf of that for the V-I launch order In addition, the other complexities that were associated with the V-I launch order\226potential pressure to relax flight rules and the disruptions caused by having to replace an Ares V\226 also trended toward the selection of the I-V launch order 11  P OINT OF D EPARTURE AND U NCERTAINTY  Note that the selected 1\275-launch operational concept represents only a point-of-departu re architecture to be used as a baseline for ongoing lunar architecture studies. It does not represent a final selection of launch order, separation, or loiter period, and NASA is taking no steps to preclude a change in the operational concept in the future In fact, because of the uncerta inty that is involved in the initial design and costing, the possibility exists that, upon further refinement, the parame ters that drive this study could change to a degree that would cause the operational concept to be reconsidered In addition, significant uncertainty exists in the data that were used to generate the Pn SL results in C-RAST. Because the Ares V is still in the early stages of design, large amount of uncertainty still exists as to the launch reliability for the vehicle. As the design matures and more accurate estimates of reliability become available, the operations concept could also be reconsidered In fact, it may ultimately be desirable to develop a 1\275launch system that allows for launch in either order. For the purposes of this study, the Ares V reliability and, therefore the PnSL were treated as consta nt values. Because there is a limited test program for the Ares V before the crewed lunar mission begins, there is liable to be significant growth in reliability for the Ares V over a number of missions. If the initial reliability is low, then the desire would be to launch the Ares V first so that the crew is not launched unnecessarily. Because the values used in this analysis represent the mature steady-stat e estimates, the PnSL for the I-V options could be worse than predicted in this analysis for some number of early missions. If the initial reliability is significantly lower, then it may be desirable to launch initial missions in a V-I order and then switch to I-V as reliability improves To address this uncertainty, an additional set of analyses was completed. In this uncertainty analysis, calculations were made to determine how much each major input parameter would have to change in order to cause the launch option decision to change, if that decision were made on expected replacement cost alone. The analysis was conducted by comparing the final two options: the I-V 4day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter cases The results of the uncertainty analysis are shown in Table 14. In this table, the current estimate used for each major parameter is listed. Then, the value for each parameter at which the launch order decision \(based on the expected cost of failure\would switch is listed. Generally, the required shifts are large, although the required changes in Table 14 are for single variables only. Simultaneous changes of multiple parameters that are lower in magnitude could also cause a change in the launch order decision The greatest level of uncertain ty in the current analysis involves the transportation element replacement costs Because of the uncertainty involving fixed and marginal costs for Altair and because of the uncertain nature of cost estimates in early design large shifts could potentially occur in the cost data for all elements as the designs mature Table 14. Sensitivity of Launc h Order Decision to Major Parameters Parameter Current Estimate Value at Which Launch Order Would Switch \(if all other values remain constant PnSL I-V 4-day loiter 5.4% 13.5 PnSL V-I 14-day loiter 4.7% 1.9 Cost of Ares I Stack 1.00 AI 2.5 AI Cost of Ares V Stack 2.88 AI 1.15 AI  


  15 In order to represent the impact of uncertainty in the cost data, a \223breakeven\224 cost ratio was determined. The important factor in compari ng expected costs for the I-V and V-I launch orders is not the absolute costs of the Ares I and Ares V stacks but rather the relative costs between the two. Given the predicted PnSL values for the I-V and V-I cases, any set of cost data in wh ich the cost of the Ares V is greater than 115% of the cost of the Ares I will result in the expected replacement cost pe r mission for the I-V option being lower. This relationship is depicted graphically in Figure 6 Figure 6 can be used to determine the resultant optimal launch order for any set of Ares I and Ares V stack replacement costs, based on mini mizing the expected cost of failure. The cost of the Ares V stack is specified on the horizontal axis, and the cost of the Ares I stack is specified on the vertical axis. The sloping red line in the center of the figure represents the break-even cost boundary. If the set of costs is below this line in the light-blue region, then the I-V launch order is preferable. If the set of costs are above the red line in the light-green region, then the V-I launch order is preferable The intent of Figure 6 is to provide a visual indication of how much change could occur in the cost estimates before the launch order decision would be reconsidered. The current cost estimates are represented as a vertical bar on the chart. The Ares I cost is fixed at 1.00 AI. The Ares V cost is represented as a range of 1.65 to 2.88 AI, which represents the full range that is produced by the possible inclusion of fixed costs Across the range of current co st estimates, a large margin still exists before the break-eve n point is reached. Even with no fixed costs included for the Ares V, the Ares V cost would have to decrease by 32%, or the Ares I cost would have to increase by 47% for the cost of failure to be equal for the two cases. These changes seem to be outside the current range of cost uncertainty The Constellation Program has initiated an action to monitor the key parameters identified in this analysis as the transportation element designs continue to mature. If the designs reach a state at wh ich the selected point-ofdeparture operational concept is called into question, then this baseline may be updated 12  S UMMARY  The initial specification of an operational concept for the 1\275-launch solution was largely based on three assumptions First, there was a \223gut reaction\224 that one would not want to risk launching a crew until the EDS and lander were safely in orbit. Second, the assumption was made that the probability of missing the second launch could be substantially reduced by providing a long loiter period for  Figure 6 \226 Relative Ares I and Ares V Stack Costs 


  16 the EDS. Finally, with long EDS loiter periods, the assumption was made that a 24-hour launch separation would have no significant impact on mission success More detailed analysis indicat ed that all three of these assumptions were not entirely accurate. The added risk to the crew, dictated by the c onditional probability of enduring a second launch and encountering a loss-of-crew event, was quite small, especially as compared with the total risk for a human lunar mission The ability to use added loiter to reduce PnSL was largely limited by the Ares V capabilities. Loiter periods of more than four days would require a change to the selected Ares V option \(significantly increasing DDT&E and unit cost and would substantially increase the complexity of the EDS Finally, with shorter loiter periods, the 24-hour launch separation significantly increased the probability of no second launch. The increase in PnSL outweighed the advantages of having a long separation between the launches Taking these limitations into account, the assumed launch order, launch separation, and lo iter duration were called into question. A structured methodology to evaluate the probability of failure, the cost of failure, and the risk to the crew allowed NASA decision makers to methodically compare the options and to se lect a point-of-departure for 1\275-launch operations that would result in the best expected mission performance Loiter durations of greater than four days were determined to be nonviable. The added cost and complexity of the Ares V and the EDS, particularly during the DDT&E period would impose significant affo rdability issues. Although the PnSL could be substantially reduced by increasing the loiter, these improvements did not justify the added complexity With loiter periods limited to four days or less, the 24-hour launch separation was also determined to be nonviable Although switching to a 90-minute separation would impose some operational complexity at launch and could impose some additional risk to the crew in a V-I launch order, these factors were outweighed by the significant penalty to PnSL Finally, the launch order itself was evaluated. With a 4-day loiter, both launch orders resulted in similar values for PnSL. The I-V order would result in some added crew risk in the event of a missed launch, but the magnitude of the added risk was determined to be quite small, especially because the crew would face some indeterminate added flight hazard risk in the V-I option as well. The major discriminator between launch orders was in the expected cost of failure. Because a 1\275-l aunch failure in the V-I order would result in the loss of an Ares V, the EDS, and the Altair lander, the consequence of failure is quite high. A failure in the I-V launch order would result in substantially lower costs to replace the Ares I and an Orion service module and refurbish an Orion crew module. The result of the large difference in relative co sts is that the expected cost of failure is substantially lower for the I-V launch order The results of the study allowed decision makers to select a I-V launch order, with a 90-minute separation and a 4-day EDS/Orion LEO loiter period as the point-of-departure operational concept. This concept will serve as the baseline for ongoing lunar mission development. However, as designs mature and the major parameters used in this analysis are refined, the operational concept for the 1\275launch solution will be further evaluated R EFERENCES    223Expl orat i on Sy st em s Archi t ect ure St udy   Fi nal  R e port 224  NASA-TM-2005-214062, November 2005. url http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/constellation/news/E SAS_report.html   Doug C ooke, \223Lunar Archi t ect ure Updat e\224 Nat i onal  Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2007. url http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/190083main_AIAA_ESMD_fin alSPACE2007.pdf 3 Gran t Cates, W illiam Cirillo an d Ch el Stro m g ren   223Lo w  earth orbit rendezvous strategy for lunar missions,\224 Proceedings of the I EEE 2006 Winter Simulation Conference ed. L.F. Perrone, F.P. Weiland, J. Liu, and B.G. Lawson, Piscataway, NJ, 2006, pp. 1248-1252  Phil Sum r all, Steve Creech, \223R efinements in the Design of the Ares V Cargo Launch Vehicle for NASA\222s Exploration Strategy\224,  AIAA 2008-4981, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Chel Stromgren currently serves as the Chief Scientist of the Center for Strategic Analytics at Science Application International Corporation \(SAIC\ this role Mr. Stromgren leads the development of probability and risk-based strategic models and strategic analysis of complex system development. Mr Stromgren has supported NASA in the analysis of Space Shuttle and International Sp ace Station operations in the post-Columbia environment and has led the development of strategic campaign models for the lunar exploration initiatives. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Marine Engineering and Naval Architecture from the Webb 


  17 Institute and a Master of Science degree in Systems Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Grant Cates is a Senior Operations Research Analyst at SAIC. He retired from NASA in 2006 after 25 combined years in federal service, including 7 years on active duty in the Air Force. At NASA he served in varying capacities on the Space Shuttle Program, including Space Shuttle Columbia Vehicle Manager and Flow Director He received a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Central Florida in 2004 William Cirillo currently serves as a Senior Researcher at NASA Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia, where he has worked for past 20 years in the area of Human Space Flight Systems Analysis. This has included studies of Space Shuttle, International Space Station, and Human Exploration beyond low Earth orbit. In 2005, Mr. Cirillo served at NASA Headquarters as a core member of the Exploration Systems Architecture Study \(E SAS\, where he was responsible for studying the use of Ares I/Orion in meeting future ISS crew and logistics transportation needs. Mr Cirillo currently leads a team of analysts within the NASA Constellation Program in assessing at a strategic and tactical level the manifesting of assembly and logistics flights for establishing permanent human presence on the Moon 


Figure 11  HIIAPS Data Processing Flow of previous processing systems HIIAPS would both reduce the costs and risk of creating a new processing center Storage Media Disk vs Tape Initially EOSDIS used tape-based storage Now it is slowly transitioning to disk based storage 31 34 T ape is easily transportable has faster read/write speeds but it is sequential access storage and a nearline media 36 37 On the other hand disk has a higher storage capacity per unit makes the data easily accessible online experiences more frequent technology upgrades but has higher electrical costs and is more prone to error 36 37 Disk storage is also more convenient to use because it is random access and data can be kept online as opposed to nearline or of\003ine all the time thus shortening data retrieval times It was been shown that disk storage is more expensive in the short term but in the long term the cost difference between disk and tape systems seems to converge This combined with the f act that ACPS the Ozone Monitoring Instrument Data Processing System OMIDAPS and MODAPS are all disk based storage leads to the conclusion that HIIAPS should also be an entirely disk based system especially with the Kryder's Law disk storage densities double every 23 months taken into account Data Formats As the previous section states it is imperative that HyspIRI data is made available to as many non-remote sensing scientists as possible Part of achieving this goal will be accomplished by distributing the data in a format that is easy to use A standard format would be helpful because it would guarantee that everybody could read that 002le format However there is no single standard format for geospatial data  N ASA  s EOSDIS currently uses HDF-EOS5 which is good for processing but not everyone can easily read the HDF 002le format 40 41 Ev en though there is no standard some formats are more easily accessible than others Using a GIS Geographic Information Systems format like a 003at georeferenced JPEG or PNG image would make HyspIRI data readily accessible to an already large user base and to those who do not use a GIS program The Open GIS Consortium Inc R r OGC is working to solve this formatting issue and towards Open GIS 43 223Open GIS is the full integration of geospatial data into mainstream information technology What this means is that GIS users would be able to freely exchange data over a range of GIS software systems and networks without having to worry about format conversion or proprietary data types Working with the OGC or at least staying in touch with their progress would help to maximize interoperability and accessibility Based on this HyspIRI should have at least two standard data formats One would be HDF-EOS5 because that is the standard NASA EOS format and HIIAPS can draw on pervious NASA experience for it The second would be a GIS ready format like a georeferenced JPEG or PNG to increase accessibility to HyspIRI data This section looked at how HyspIRI might 002t into the EOSDIS framework several previous processing systems and touched on accessibility and interoperability concerns HyspIRI should take advantage of the present EOSDIS infrastructure However HIIAPS should be a stand alone processing center so that HyspIRI's large data volume does not overtax the existing EOSDIS system There are three heritage systems for HIIAPS MODAPS OMIDAPS and ACPS each an the evolution of the next There has been a steady shift from tape-based storage to disk-based storage over the years Thus HIIAPS should use a disk-based storage system In addition to storage and processing distribution is also a concern for the HyspIRI mission HyspIRI data should be made available at no charge to as many people as possible in a manner accessible to as many people as possible Some of the challenges are choosing a data format reaching non-remote sensing scientists and providing the data in an easy to 002nd manner Using Google Earth TM and supplying HyspIRI data products in more than one format will help to solve this challenge 8 C ONCLUSION An end-to-end data system has been described for the HyspIRI mission a high data volume Earth-observing mission With the HyspIRI mission ambitious science objectives are driving the development of a cutting-edge data handling system both on-board the spacecraft and on the ground 18 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





