 Abstract  This paper analyzes the opportunities offered by information and communication technologies \(ICTs\ and the related ethical issues they raise within the transparency practices of nongovernmental organizations \(NGOs\. Based upon a one-year study of a European NGO, the Italian Association of Blind People, it presents compelling empirical evidence concerning the main ethical, social and economic challenges that NGOs face in the development of more transparent relationships with the public and the related role that is played by ICTs. In particular, this study shows that, although attempting to be extremely transparent is held as an important ethical value, ICTenabled information disclosure is limited by privacy and security 
concerns and by the pressure of financial supporters and benefactors and potential NGO competitors who vie for grants and donations Finally, this paper presents implications and suggestions for managers of NGOs and policy makers    1. Introduction  Over the last few decades, recurrent scandals have involved not only the business sector \(e.g. the Enron and Parmalat collapses\, but also several non-governmental organizations \(NGOs\ that were supposed to be engaged in charitable initiatives -- e.g. the U.N. Oil For Food Program or the U.N. sex scandals in Sierra Leone, Liberia and New Guinea and financial abuses and mismanagement at United Way of America. As a consequence, individuals have lost confidence in many institutions, even those claiming to have only 
humanitarian purposes  While there is no silver bullet that will prevent all questionable practices in organizations, transparency defined in the business sector as the degree of completeness of information, provided by each company to the market, concerning its business activities  [1  has  been recently advocated as being an important ethical practice able to improve the trust and confidence that stakeholders may have in business organizations [1   Be transparent! and then you are a good citizen 3 h is  increasing societal interest in transparency has been acknowledged by firms around the world. Indeed, [4 h a s  recently demonstrated that the most cited ethics principles in the codes of conduct of multinational companies have 
to do with transparency, honesty and fairness with the respective frequencies of 55, 50 and 45 percent  In this context previous studies have argued that information and communication technologies \(ICTs\ can provide a valuable platform to those firms interested in improving their level of transparency [1,5 In  pa r t i c ul a r   Internet-based technologies can assist a firm to increase the information available about its business practices and to create a direct relationship with geographically dispersed individuals. For example, a recent article published in Wired magazine introduces the term radical transparency 6  I t refers t o  the ca p a bi lit y  o f  a firm s top management to employ various Internet-based technologies such as blogs and collaborative websites to create a direct and continuous dialogue with customers 
and more in general with all stakeholders [7    Despite the rising societal expectations of higher levels of organizational transparency overall and the new opportunities offered by ICTs, the current research literature has analyzed the perspectives related to this issue primarily in business or governmental organizations 8.9   Bas e d up on res earch  c a r r ied o u t in th e a r ea  o f  corporate accountability, in this study we will analyze the ethical issues related to transparency and the related role of ICTs in an NGO.  In particular we will analyze the main ethical challenges that an NGO must confront in the development of more transparent relationships with the public and the related role played by ICTs. In order to reach these research objectives, we present a case study of an important Italian NGO -- the Italian Association of 
Blind People -- that has extensively adopted and currently employs ICTs in support of its attempts to be a transparent organization. We show that transparency is intended by this NGO as an important ethical value both in its relationship with the external public, as well as in the management of it activities with internal constituents Moreover, we find that higher levels of transparency in the internal relationships are acknowledged as an ethical approach to manage human resources, to solve problems and to make important decisions. But, improvements in an NGO s level of transparency are not always acceptable as various ethical and organizational forces can affect its transparency level. We identify five main forces that have a significant bearing upon the level of NGO transparency privacy, security, financial supporters \(donors 
competing institutions and beneficiaries This paper contributes to the literature dealing with transparency in several ways. First, based upon Vaccaro s 1 and V accar o a n d  M a ds e n  2   mo d e ls   w e e x t e n d  the understanding of ethical and socio-economical concerns related to transparency to the particular context of NGOs Second, the paper provides an analysis of the contributions and the new perspectives offered by ICTs for the improvement of NGO transparency both in the relationships with the external public and in the management of internal activities. In this regard, it demonstrates that ICT is a transformative technology  1  ha vi n g t h e  p o w e r t o  c h a n ge s o c i al r e la t i o n s hi ps a n d   in particular, by assisting an organization to attempt 
practices that will allow it to become extremely transparent 7  The paper is organized as follows. The next section provides a literature review and details the research questions being posed. The third section presents the VIRTUAL NETWORKS AND ETHICS : AN EMPIRICAL RESEARCH IN A NON- GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION Antonino Vaccaro 1 Peter Madsen 2 1 Catholic University of Lisbon FCEE- CEBE, Carnegie Mellon University, EPP 2 Carnegie Mellon University Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


research methodology adopted for the analysis of the case study. Section four provides detailed description of the uses made of ICTs by the Italian Association of Blind People in its attempt at transparency improvement. The fifth section discusses the insights that can be drawn from the case study and the related perspectives for further research. Finally, conclusions drawn from the work are provided   2. Accountability in  NGOs: how does Transparency Matter  Concerns about accountability in nongovernmental organizations \(NGOs\ have increased over the past two decades [1   Sev e ral fact o r s ha v e  contributed to this rising interest: a series of highly publicized scandals that have eroded public confidence in nonprofit organization, the rapid growth of NGOs around the world  that sp urr ed t h e need t o s p rea d more information concerning the activities of these institutions and the ever more relevant role NGOs currently maintain in the development of important social and economic initiatives at the national and international level  [1  In addition to the interest of the public s opinion, scholars and researchers of applied ethics and accountability have argued that NGOs are special institutions that should achieve excellence in accountability and social responsibility. Indeed, NGOs are considered to have a heightened moral obligation to act in the public interest and as a result they must be accountable for what they publicly declare and for the positions that they take through the development of their social and economic initiatives [14, 15, 16   Different ways to respond to this increasing demand for accountability were recently implemented by national governments \(e.g. the U.S., Australia\, inter-governmental institutions \(e.g. the United Nations and its Food and Agriculture Organization\ and by the NGOs themselves National and inter-governmental institutions have increased the amount of documentations NGOs have to provide in order to receive further financial backing. On the other hand, NGOs have unilaterally developed and implemented different strategies to improve their accountability. Ebrahim s [11 t a xo no my  di s t ing u i s h e s  between attempts as: reports and disclosure statements performance assessments and evaluations, participation self-regulation, and social audits Another way to understand the NGO accountability process is to distinguish between external and internal accountability practices [17 T h e firs t  typology refers to the reporting of information concerning various NGOs practices to national and international institutions through the fulfillment of formal documentation, which is often required by certain regulatory agencies. Internal accountability is related instead to the disclosure of detailed information concerning the initiatives and activities of an NGO to all its other stakeholders outside of national and international agencies In this context, it seems evident that transparency represents an interesting perspective related to the issue of NGOs accountability. Several authors [19, 16, 14 h a v e  in fact suggested that, when considering mechanisms for ensuring accountability, the most obvious is to ensure that NGOs are transparent.  A brief overview of the research literature in business ethics and accountability confirms that transparency is very often advocated as the ingredient necessary for the development of more trustworthy and accountable institutions. For example, the recent report of Independent Sector, a coalition of NGOs and other organizations addressing various issues confronting charitable giving in the US, titled Strengthening Transparency, Governance, Accountability of Charitable Organizations  2005, pp.5  maintains that Every charitable organization should, as a recommended practice, provide more detailed information about its operations, including methods it uses to evaluate the outcomes of programs, to the public through its annual report, website, and other means Moreover, Cohen [20  has pointed out the need to improve the transparency of the relationships between NGOs and three important stakeholders, i.e. governments, financial supporters and the public It s worth nothing that the ever more acclaimed importance of transparency is due, in part, not only to the pressure of civil society and of governmental institutions seeking more detailed information concerning the practices of these organizations, but also to the new opportunities that have arisen with the diffusion of Internet-based technologies that have been developed globally. With respect to the business sector, Tapscott and Ricoll [5 ha ve ar gu e d t h a t in f o r m at i o n a n d  communication technologies \(ICTs\ can transform commercial organizations in naked corporations i.e firms without secrets whose business practices and activities are public and very well known. Vaccaro and Madsen [2 det a il ed t h e ca s e  o f  a  mul t i n at ion a l f i r m t h at has effectively employed Internet-based technologies to increase its transparency and thereby strengthen the trust of its customers resulting in positive commercial impact Despite of the increasing societal and institutional demand for transparency and the new and more effective opportunities offered by ICTs to improve information availability, NGOs seem to be resistant in improving their transparency levels. For example in 2003 the Global Accountability Report [21  cla im e d  t h at  international NGOs provided little online information about their activities compared with other organizations Although scholars and practitioners [e.g. 21, 16 h a v e  referred to this evidence, there are no studies that have analyzed the causes of it. One possible explanation is that the attempt to disclose relevant information concerning NGO practices may raise a variety of other ethical issues that, in turn, limit the kind and amount of information that can be made available. For example, [1 has pres e nt e d a framework demonstrating that transparency Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


improvements in business are accompanied by concerns for the privacy and security of a firm s stakeholders Moreover, financial forces, such the threat of competing institutions, can impinge upon the inclination of a firm to shift toward higher transparency levels [2  Ba s e d u p on  several previous studies into the conditions of organizational transparency, this work intends to extend the current literature to an analysis of the impact of ICTs on NGOs transparency and the related ethical issues that can arise. Thus, our research questions are: How do ICTs assist NGOs to increase the transparency of their operations so that they can become more accountable What are the main ethical challenges that NGOs face in the development of more transparent relationships with their various stakeholders  3. Research Method As one way to address these research questions this study presents the case of Unione Italiana Ciechi e Ipovedenti \(UICI  http://www.uiciechi.it  It is part of a four-year research project designed to understand the ethical issues associated with the impact of ICTs on the relationship between different kinds of organizations such as corporations, NGOs, higher education institutions and society at large. The selection of this case has been made for several reasons. First, this NGO recognized transparency as an important ethical and organizational issue 1 This feature is significant to analyze because it can show how a strong belief in the value of transparency can lead to the transformation of organizational processes and practices. Second, over the last decade UICI has invested significant amounts of financial and organizational resources in the implementation of ICT tools, and in particular Internet-based technologies.  Finally, during the preliminary case study selection we recognized this organization as an example of one attempting to be extremely transparent The last two features are very important to analyze and understand how ICTs can be effectively employed to reach high degrees of transparency. The generalization of the empirical insights of this paper will be focused on the opportunities offered by ICTs to transform organizations from opaque into extremely transparent and on the potential related ethical issues associated with this process The research questions that we intended to address led us to the choice of conducting an explorative study of a given case example. Moreover, the lack of ad hoc models related to the issues of transparency in NGO practices suggested adopting an exploratory approach for data gathering purposes. Data gathering was performed in four main ways: direct observation of UICI s web sites interviews with UICI personnel and with its stakeholders reviews of internal UICI documents and finally, reviews of publicly available reports \(e.g. reports of trade unions market studies\  We observed UICI s web sites bi   1 It is worth nothing that in Italy,  NGOs coincide with non-profit organizations. As a consequence this case study offers insights related to a non profit non governmental organization monthly for 16 months. We monitored eventual site changes or the creation of new parts of the web site \(e.g new web pages, online communities, etc.\ verifying the related impact on the organization s level of transparency For example, during the fifth month of observation, we noted that UICI launched a new version of its website with a resulting increase in the amount of information being made available to the general public. We recognized such a modification as an increase in the company s overall level of transparency Moreover, we conducted interviews with a set of diverse stakeholders: employees, managers, suppliers beneficiaries, collaborators, etc. Interviews followed two different approaches: open interviews  22  du ri ng  w h i c h interviewees were asked generic questions about current activities of the organization, the status of ICT-related projects, etc., and focused interviews [22 d u r i n g  w h i c h the respondent was interviewed for thirty-five to forty minutes using a specific, but flexible, set of questions. In addition, managers provided internal documents in order to validate and integrate the results of the interviews Finally, we analyzed official documents from UICI over the last 5 years such as its annual reports, protocols with other institutions, etc A major concern with our research method was the trustworthiness 23, 24 o f t h e i n fo rm a tio n  obtained, i.e. the external and internal validity and reliability of the qualitative data gathered throughout the study  The external validity of our findings, i.e establishing the domain to which the findings of this study can be generalized and applied [25, pp.23   is v e rified b y   a\ detailed descriptions of the organizational and the environmental context b\velopment of interviews with a wide range of stakeholders c\ development of nearverbatim transcripts of interviews  Reliability, i.e demonstrating that the operations of this study can be repeated with the same results [25, pp  is v e rifie d  b y  a\ data triangulation between the different available information sources b\otecting the confidentiality of interviewees in order to prevent biased answers and c\ a detailed description of the procedures adopted during data gathering \(e.g. methodology adopted for interviews\ For example, data gathered through the interviews of UICI s employees of regional offices were triangulated with: a statements provided by the staff of the National headquarters, b\ta provided by UICI s beneficiaries and, c\ the information available from the UICI website and those of its partners. Internal validity, i.e establishing causal relationships between the phenomena analyzed in this study [25, pp  is a s su r e d  b y a ou r  extended analysis of each organization s web site, b triangulation of information sources and c\peer debriefing \(one of the authors discussed with several UICI s stakeholders the results of the study  4. Unione Italiana Ciechi e degli Ipovedenti The Italian Union of Blind People Unione Italiana dei Ciechi e degli Ipovedenti-ONLUS UICI was founded in 1920 in Genoa \(Italy\ with the only aim Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


to support and integrate blind people in society  Art.3 Statuto Sociale  This NGO is involved in a variety of activities and services in support of blind people such as their representation in governmental institutions, the organization and management of schools for people affected by ocular diseases, the translation of newspapers and other publications in Braille language, etc  The UICI has its organization geographically distributed throughout the country of Italy. Its headquarters is located in Rome and it has at least one center in each Italian province. Since 1996, Internet-based technologies are extensively used by UICI to: a\ share important information with its beneficiaries, other members and with the public and b\provide several online services Indeed, given the geographical dispersion of blind people in Italy, the Internet is considered by UICI management as an indispensable tool having the potential to increase the quality of its services and to improve the effectiveness of its relationships with beneficiaries, members, other institutions and the public in general During the last decade UICI s website has been constantly modified and improved through the creation of new sections, services and links to other institutions of potential interest to blind people According to the interviews we conducted with several UICI managers, the use of the website has gone through at least two different phases. During the first phase, which concluded late in the 1990s, the website was created with the aim of briefly providing very general information about UICI activities. However, the more recent versions of the website were developed with the idea to provide specific information necessary to understand current and forthcoming activities at the NGO and to create a direct relationship between it, the community of blind people and the public 2 The current version of the UICI website is divided in 17 main sections: a Welcome and Preliminary Information, an Online Radio, Organization Structure Section for people with partial visual capabilities Documents, Services, Opportunities for Volunteers News, an Online Forum, National Meetings, UICI friend institutions, International Activities, Online Library Contacts, Multimedia Archive, Electronic Magazines and Newspapers and the Website s Observatory.  We classified six main kinds of information categories available on the website: organization structure, official documents, internal reports, services/products partnerships and forum & contacts. A synthetic description of the information disclosed in the UICI s website is reported in Table 1 Although the website provides very detailed information concerning UICI activities, the interviews with managers of this NGO have confirmed that several ethical and economic/social forces have affected information disclosures made by this NGO. In particular    2 It is interesting to note that one of the authors who had extensively analyzed this website at length -- discovered during the interviewing process that he was more well informed of the nature of some specific UICI practices than were some of its top managers we have found at least five forces affecting UICI s transparency policy. Two of them are related to ethical concerns, namely, privacy and security, while the other three -- the pressure of benefactors, the threat of competitors and the information requests of beneficiaries - are related to financial/social forces. Table 1 also details the forces that impact disclosure in each of the aforementioned information categories Privacy issues play a very important role in the decision about what information should and should not be disclosed by the UICI. In addition to Italian law regulating privacy matters, UICI is particularly interested in following and respecting the privacy expectations of its beneficiaries and other stakeholders. Indeed, according to the interviews, blind people expect that our personal identity and relationship with UICI should be maintained completely confidential shared neither with other beneficiaries, nor with normal [i.e. people without vision diseases or damage  peopl e Interview, 2006  As a  result of this privacy expectation, UICI carefully avoid the disclosure of personal information about its beneficiaries and employees and provides only personal information concerning its top management of the UICI National and local centers Another important ethical force that moderates UICI s transparency is security. The disclosure of detailed information concerning UICI activities may be exploited for fraudulent purposes. For example, the information concerning financial transfers to UICI beneficiaries or to other institutions is maintained confidential in order to avoid potential robberies. By the same token, personal information of UICI managers who reside in areas with high levels of criminality such as the southern part of Italy is not available on the website for obvious security reasons. The avoidance of identity theft would also be a prudent concern in the process of deciding what information to disclose or not According to some of those who were interviewed two categories of stakeholders recently have pressured UICI to improve its level of transparency. They are UICI members and beneficiaries. All interviews confirmed that UICI members are extremely interested in social responsibility and business ethics issues and in the role played by UICI in Italian society. As stated above, this NGO is the official representative organization of blind people before the Italian government. As a consequence UICI members expect that the activities and the goals of this NGO will be extremely clear not only inside the community of the blind people but also in civil society  Interview, 2006  A c c o rd i n g t o a mana g er  o f a re gion al  UICI office several blind people identify themselves with our association, so, they ask UICI to share detailed information concerning its activities because they intend it as a way to express their ideas and rights to non-blind people Interview, 2006\. A similar perspective was recently provided by the UICI National President in a long letter he wrote to the national delegates \(Daniele 2005\ransparency is also intended as a way to illustrate to all stakeholders that the financial support provided by Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


the Italian government is appropriately used, and that UICI generally addresses real humanitarian rather than political or business objectives. As a consequence, UICI is expected to be very careful, precise and satisfactory in providing information to the public because it s the only way to convince others about the importance of our organization it s impact on blind people and in turn on society  Interview   Am o n g ot her s  UIC I  undertook a very interesting extreme transparency  initiative: its board of the executive directors regularly posts on UICI s website all complete vocal recordings of its meetings, during which the most important decisions for the future of UICI s are made According to the interviews, transparency is also acknowledged as a necessary ethical requirement to manage human resources fairly, to solve problems and to make important organizational decisions. Although UICI s employees never pressed for improvements in the transparency practices at the NGO, top executives decided to adopt transparency initiatives in the management of internal relationships as well. This policy had a favorable reaction throughout the NGO. For example, UICI s General Direction Office posts online the annual budget for administrative and human resources expenses According to a manager of a regional unit of this NGO the fact we know how much the General Direction spends assure us that money is well spent because they know that I can ask them the reasons for each expense  Interview\y the same token, an employee of another regional unit maintained that the fact I know the salaries of my colleagues assures me I am fairly paid and that there are not preferences Interview  Mo re o v er transparency is known by internal stakeholders as a policy in support of organizational decision-making processes because if everyone here knows we have a problem he/she can offer their solution a lot of times we do not have any idea of how to resolve a problem and someone of another office or a beneficiary arrives with the solution Interview UICI s financial benefactors and donors represent another major societal force affecting this NGO s level of transparency. The principal UICI supporters are the Italian government, private companies, individual donors and the European Union. Financial supporters, and in particular governmental institutions and agencies, very often request detailed information on how their financial contributions are being expended. The policy currently in force at UICI is to prepare ad hoc documents with formats and the degree of detail required by financial benefactors and to post only a synthetic document that has less detailed, aggregated data concerning financial allocations on the website. According to interviewees, this use of data aggregation is a very suitable policy because it guarantees, at the same time, the disclosure of information that could be of interest to stakeholders, the respect of legislative norms and ethical expectations of employees and beneficiaries.  Finally, such a policy of transparency avoids sharing excessive data that, in turn, paradoxically reduces the transparency level of an organization by creating an inordinate amount of information that is burdensome for the end user and that might be called data asphyxia  The last force we identified as having an impact on UICI transparency is represented by potential and present competitors. The last decade has witnessed an unexpected rise of NGOs in Italy and all over the world As a consequence, fund raising has become very difficult for NGOs  since there is a real competition  in the market for benefactors and charitable donations. Although UICI is a unique national organization representing blind people in Governmental institutions, there are several NGOs working in areas very closely related to UICI and that have started to be competitive in obtaining national and regional grants for special interest groups that aid people with disabilities of many kinds. As a consequence information disclosure at UICI is constrained in what regard information and data that can be exploited by competing NGO for the application to grant and other financial supports It is worth noting that the Italian government does not play a role in determining the level of NGO transparency Indeed, the legal requirements for detailed reports and documents acted by Italian Governmental agencies are only used to the check the appropriateness of NGO expenditures and there are no regulations requiring that NGOs engage in information disclosure to other stakeholders such as beneficiaries and individual donors In other words, it would appear that UICI is a proactive organization when it comes to transparency matters  5. Discussion  The analysis of this case confirms that ICTs have the potential to improve an NGO s capabilities to disclose information concerning their practices and to develop more effective and direct relationships with the public by attempting to become extremely transparent. It has showed that the proper use of Internet-based technologies can transform an NGO from an opaque organization to one that values transparency because it can empower stakeholders. For example, the possibility to download the audio recording of all board meetings from the UICI website allows stakeholders to witness and virtually participate in important moments of this organization and consequently, to acquire very detailed information concerning its current practices and objectives. By the same token, fairness in stakeholder relations is advanced when the UICI website allows any stakeholder to learn how financial resources are distributed among departments and to see what the salaries of top managers of the organization happen to be The results of this study confirm previous ones e.g 7, 10, 26 th at ha v e id en t i fied virtu a l to o l s as  transformative technologies capable of reshaping the activities of individuals and the practices of groups into new forms of social behavior. In particular, Internet-based technologies have the potential to revolutionize NGO s internal and external relationships due to their capability Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


to store and transmit almost infinite amounts of information without time and space constrains. It is worth noting that UICI intends transparency as an important ethical value both with respect to its relationship with the external public as well as with its internal members. In particular, the development of transparent relationships with the public and with beneficiaries is understood as a way to demonstrate that donations and other financial resources are appropriately disbursed to pursue humanitarian objectives. In this instance, transparency is a form of accountability. Moreover, we found that the adoption of higher levels of transparency in the development of internal relationships is acknowledged as a necessary ethical requirement to fairly manage human resources, to solve problems and to make important decisions. In these instances, transparency takes on the form of organizational governance On the other hand, improvements of an NGO transparency are not always considered ethically acceptable or proper and there are limits to the level which NGOs and other organizations can be transparent Indeed, various forces can affect the level and degree of transparency at an NGO. Our exploratory analysis has led to the identification of five main forces two of which have to do with ethics and three that relate to organizational concerns -- that have a significant bearing upon how extreme transparency can be implemented at an NGO. They are privacy, security, financial supporters donors\, competing institutions and beneficiaries Improvements in an NGO s transparency have to take into account of the privacy of employees and beneficiaries. Indeed, UICI has to limit the detail of information concerning its current practices in order to respect the privacy that has been instated by law as well as the privacy expectations of their employees and beneficiaries that may surpass legal requirements. This is a very important issue in the case we have analyzed since the beneficiaries are people with serious handicaps that very often have an expectation of maintaining their complete anonymity. By the same token, employees expect that their personal data \(financial, medical, etc will be considered confidential information and not be publicly disclosed Another important ethical force affecting the NGO s transparency is security. The disclosure of detailed information about the practices of an NGO can threaten individuals, groups and the NGO itself needs to be carefully considered. For example, information concerning financial transfers between different centers of the same NGO or from the NGO to beneficiaries can be exploited for fraudulent purposes, such as identity theft Similarly, the personal information of upper level managers in these organizations should be kept hidden in order to protect their safety and those of their relatives Nevertheless, our case confirmed that the security issue is often dependent on the geographic and environmental conditions where the NGOs and its stakeholders are located The transparency of NGOs can be affected not only by the two aforementioned ethical issues, but at least by other three social/economic forces. The first is represented by potential competitors. Although NGOs are generally founded for humanitarian purposes, they very often compete with other similar institutions to receive financial support from the Government and from other Institutions such as the European Union. The development of a market for humanitarian initiatives  consequently affects the transparency of NGOs. Indeed the spread of specific information concerning current and forthcoming activities of an NGO can be exploited by other competing NGOs to concur for a grant or for the creation of a competing service The second economic/social force is represented by financial supporters. A big part of NGOs endowment is generally based on the donations of individuals, other organizations and Governmental Institutions. Since every single supporter tends to influence NGOs decision making processes, higher levels of transparency can cause the reaction of those supporters that disagree with the decision made by the NGO. On the other hand, any financial supporter is interested to know how the money disbursed was used by the NGO. The information strategy adopted by UICI is to create ad hoc reports that are sent directly to each financial supporter and lately to post on the website only part of the data provided to each supporter An interesting result concerns the use of data aggregation policies to address contrasting transparency expectations, such as the requests of more detailed information acted by benefactors versus data protection expectations of beneficiaries and employees. In such cases, data aggregation allows to hidden sensible data, i.e information whose spread could cause the infringement of ethical expectation and/or legal norms, but at the same time to assure the requested levels of information transparency. Although this policy is not easy to implement in everyday activities indeed it requests very accurate scrutinization of legislative norms and stakeholders ethical expectations it has the additional potential advantage to resolve the dilemma raised when the excess of information  reduce the overall transparency of an organization due to data  asphyxia In this latter case, the increase of the amount of available information is counterproductive of an organization transparency because every person is capable to effectively read and retain a limited number of data The results of this study open new perspectives for research and managerial practice. First, it has shown that ICTs can be effectively used to improve internal and external transparency at NGOs. Moreover, increases in information transparency are effective ways to address the issue of accountability. As a consequence, policy makers and other practitioners should work on the implementation of routines and processes that through the use of ICTs will promote a progressive increase of transparency. Second, this study has shown that the process of data aggregation is very effective in resolving Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


contrasting transparency forces, but it is extremely difficult to implement due to the need to address a variety of legislative norms and social/ethical expectations at the same time. Future managerial practice should focus on the development of useful references and norms that can help NGO managers to implement data aggregation Finally, this study demonstrates that the main forces affecting increases in the levels of organizational transparency are an NGO s beneficiaries, on the one hand and its financial benefactors, on the other. Although Governmental agencies request detailed documents concerning the allocation of public funding, this study of UICI shows that European, national and regional governmental institutions do not make regulatory demands concerning an NGO s transparency policy with its other stakeholders. An important implication for public policy makers should consequently concern the development of legislative norms on transparency levels that NGO should adopt in the relationships with the public The results of this study open new avenues for further theoretical and empirical research. First, while this work performs an explorative empirical analysis on the potentialities of ICTs to support transparency initiatives and on some related ethical issues, further research should focus on the current use of ICTs in NGOs and on the related ethical problems perceived by stakeholders in relation to the issues of transparency. For example, we expect that extensive stakeholder surveys will point out the existence of other ethical matters \(e.g. protection of intellectual property\ associated with attempt by organizations to achieve transparency. Moreover, people from diverse social and cultural environments may see different ethical problems associated with transparency and these differences need to be measured and understood We also believe that additional empirical research needs to be completed \(i.e. micro-level case study research\erning how ICTs can be used in support of organizational attempts at transparency. Since the results of a single case study such as the one found in this paper cannot be generalized, it is likely that ICTs, and in particular internet-based technologies, can offer various ways to support internal and external transparency other than those described in this study Finally, new theoretical and empirical investigation should focus on the relationships that might exist between internal and external transparency. The case analyzed in this paper presents an organization that intends and sees external and internal transparency as two distinct issues We believe that these two different organizational dimensions of transparency coexist and that they can affect one another mutually. For example, making information transparently available within an NGO can create a problem if an employee of that organization moves to another similar one and takes such information from their former employer to the new position and shares it there. In such situations an external competitor NGO now has knowledge meant only for the eyes of internal stakeholders.  Such problems and their solutions will become the focus for future research  6. Conclusion  By presenting an empirical analysis on the impact of ICTs on an NGO s attempt to be extremely transparent and on the ethical issues associated with such attempts this paper offers a point of connection between the domains of business ethics, information ethics and public policy. We believe that transparency can open a common point of discussion between such different research fields where ethics, technology, business and public policy matters merge in personal, organizational and social life Transparency is the word of our time 2  w a s r e c e nt l y  proclaimed in the New York Times This study shows that transparency is not just a fancy word for our time, but also a new contemporary ethical issue now and for the coming future. We believe that academic research cannot miss the opportunity to address this new ethical challenge when organizations attempt to be extremely transparent   References    1 a c caro  A  Pr iv acy S e cu ri t y an d  Tr an sp are n cy I C T related ethical perspectives and contrasts in contemporary firms In D. Howcroft, E.  Trauth , J. I. DeGross \(Eds\. Social Inclusion: Societal and Organizational Implications for Information Systems. Springer, New York, 2006  2 a c caro  A  M a d s en P F i r m s Information Transparency Ethical questions in the Information Age. In J. Berleur \(Eds Social Informatics: An Information Society for All?  Springer New York, 2006  3 a pu rr o  R   P r iv acy A n  I n te rcu ltu r a l P e r s pe ctiv e   Ethics and Information Technology 7:37 47, 2005  4  K a p t ei n M   v a n T u l d er  R  200 3  Toward Effective Stakeholder Dialogue Business Society Review 108 2 203-224 5 a p s co tt D   Ri co ll  D    20 03  The Naked Corporation Free Press, New York  6 T hom p s on C 2 00 7 The See Through CEO  Wired 15 04\available at the http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/15.04/wired40_ceo.html  last visit 07/28/2007  7 V a c c a r o  A Hor t a  H  Ma ds en, P Information and Communication Technologies and Transparency: Social Responsibility and Accountability in Business and Education Philosophical Documentation Center 2008  8 a g o tto  E    G r ah am  M F u l l D i s c l o su re  U s in g  Transparency to Fight Climate Change Issues in Science and Technology  forthcoming, 2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


9  Fung, A  Gr a h a m  M    W e i l   D F u l l Di s c l o s u r e The P e ri l s  and Promise of Transparency. Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2007   Kl i n g  R  Com put er a t ion a n d Soc i a l T r a n s f orm a t i o n  Science, Technology, & Human Values 16 \(3\, 342-367 \(1991   11  Eb r a h i m  A  A c co u n t abi lity I n P r acti ce  M e ch a n ism s fo r  NGOs World Development 31\(5\: 813--829, 2003    Gi b e l m a n S Gel m a n  R. Ver y  p u b l i c s c a n d a l s   nongovernmental organizations in trouble Nonprofit and  Voluntary Sector Quarterly 12\(1\49-- 66, 2001  13 Jo r d an L   Me ch an i s m s f o r N G O A c co u n tabili ty  GPPI Research Paper Series No.3 Global Public Policy Institute Berlin, 2003  14  M a r s c h all  M  L e g it im acy an d E ffe ct iv e n e s s  C i v il S o cie t y  Organizations' Role in Good Governance, Paper presented at the Poverty Reduction Strategies Forum, Baden, Austria, October 29-November 1, 2002 15  S lim H  B y Wh at A u th o r it y  T h e Le g iti m acy an d Accountability of Non-Governmental Organisation The Journal of Humanitarian Assistance Electronic http://www.jha.ac/articles/a082.htm, 2002 Last Access: March 2   Til t, C  A NOG I s s u e s of Ac c ounta b ilit y   School of Commerce Research Paper Series: 05- 7, ISSN  1441-3906 2004    Sp i r o  P J  A c c ount in g for NGOs   Chicago Journal of International Law 13\(1\: 161--169, 2001  Keo h a n e R.O Co mm ent a r y on t h e De moc r a t i c  Accountability of Non-Governmental Organizations Chicago Journal of International Law 3 \(2\ 477--479, 2002   Dunn J   Si t u a t i ng d e m o c r a t i c  p ubl ic  a c c ounta b i l ity  I n A  Przeworski, S. C. Stokes, & B. Manin \(Eds.\Democracy Accountability, and Representation. \(pp. 329 344\. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press, 1999   Cohen J   Gov e r n a n c e b y a nd of NGOs  London   AccountAbility, 2004   Kov a c h  H  Nel i ga n C  a n d B u r a ll S  P o wer wi t h out  Accountability? Global Accountability, 2003b Report Electronic http://www.oneworldtrust.org/htmlGAP/report Last access, Marc      M e rt on  R Fis k  M   a nd P  Kenda l l   The Focused Interview: A Manual of Problems and Procedures 2nd ed.\. The Free Press, New York, 1990  23 K i r k  J Mil l e r M R e lia bi li t y an d V a lid ity in Q u ali tat iv e  Research. Sage, London 1986  24 Z y zan ski  S  J M c Wh in n e y  I  R B l a k e R   C r a b t r e e  B   F. & Miller, W. L. Qualitative research: perspectives on the future. In B.F.  Crabtree & W.L. Miller \(Eds Doing Qualitative Research. Newbury Park 231-248. CA, U.S.: Sage 1992   Yi n, R K  C a s e St udy Res e a r c h D es i g n a nd M e t h o d s  2 nd  ed.\ Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA., 1999   J ohns on   D Et hics on l i n e Shaping social behaviour on line takes more than new laws and modifies edicts Communication of the ACM  40 1\, 60--65, 1997  J ohn s o n  D C o r por a t e Exc e l l e nc e  E t hi c s a n d t h e r o l e of  IT Business and Society Review  111 4\ 457--475, 2006   28 S c h w ar tz  J T r an s p are n cy L o st in th e F o g  The New York Times available at the http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/08/business/yourmoney/08fog html?ex=1333684800&en=4bb6b8922af61b02&ei=5088&partn er=rssnyt&emc=rss Last visit 7/27/2007\, 2007                                           Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


INFORMATION TYPOLOGY BRIEF DESCRIPTION ETHICAL CONCERNS ECONOMIC-SOCIAL INIBITORS  ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE  a\ Organization Structure \(Detailed biographic information of the President, data and links to the website of regional centers b\ List of National and Regional boards and their members compositions c\ List of Administrative Managers, Contact person Etc   Privacy   Competitors  OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS FINANCIAL DATA  a\ Official regulations for the management of financial resources b\ Balance sheet            INTERNAL DOCUMENTS  a\ Detailed internal reports of the organization expenses and investment during previous fiscal years b\ Audios of the meetings of the National Board committee c\ All internal communications concerning administrative, organization, logistic, fiscal decisions made by every National committee Etc   Security & Privacy   Competitors   SERVICES  a\ Radio b\ Audio Books online c\ Newspapers online d\ Subscriptions to mailing lists Etc   Security   Competitors   PARTNERSHIPS  a\ Link, contact person and document of protocol agreements with other organizations that support blind people b\ Event and activities organized in collaboration with National and International Partners            FORUMS & CONTACTS   a\ Online forums \(e.g. Professional Education, Equal opportunities for blind students b\ List of  e-mail addresses of President and Headquarters offices c\ List of e-mail addresses of  UICI boards \(e.g. board of equal opportunities, board of sports and entertainment d\ List of e-mail addresses of local offices     Security    Competitors   Table 1: Information typologies available on the UICI website and their related ethical concerns or economic/social inhibitors          Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


nnnn ndnd nYn dZnYn yzyz yy zay azay          yzyz zz a nnnn ndndY 2112 1221    11 The equations for Ya and Za can then be substituted back into \(8 line, I, as shown in \(12 6 3naI KKK t 3 2112 2112 2112 1221 ,, nI KK t nnnn ndnd nnnn ndndX yzyz yy yzyz zz a         12 where I = Intersection line Taaa ZYX ,,=aK t = Linear parameter varying over intersection line   Vector along the intersection line Note that Xa has been shown here for generality and should be replaced with zero or whatever value previously assigned.  Equation \(12 determinant form as shown in \(13 3 11 22 11 22 22 11 


11 nI KK t nn nn nd nd nd nd X yz yz y y z z a      13 The heading estimate  can then be calculated geometrically using the relative displacement of the lateral components of the intersection line in the navigation frame x = East and y = North 14        min,max min,max,atan2  xx yy II II?  \(14 4. THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE USING SYNTHESIZED FEATURES Simulation Procedure This section will describe a simulation that was developed to assess the theoretical heading accuracy possible from ALS data and a perfect synthesized feature.  The first step of the simulation was to define the scanner parameters that reflect those likely to be used in a flight test: 30 lines per second, 10,000 pulses per second, and a  30 deg field of view.  ALS angles, times, and ranges were then simulated using these parameters.  A ground feature was synthesized by replacing the simulated ranges at the correct ground positions with those calculated according to the desired feature parameters \(i.e. plane equations synthesis and plane intersection procedure described in this section is summarized in the block diagram shown in Figure 8  Figure 8: Feature Synthesis and Plane Intersection Block Diagram Table 1: Simulation Parameters Parameter Value Aircraft Altitude 350, m Points in Surface 1 127 Points in Surface 2 248 Feature Length 25.79, m Feature Width 51.12, m The synthesized feature for this paper was based on airborne measurements of the size, location, and roof slope parameters of the AEC hangar at the Ohio University Airport.  For an aircraft at ~350m altitude in the simulation the synthesized hangar would be illuminated by 127 points 


on surface 1 and 248 points on surface 2 contained within a feature footprint with dimensions of 25.79 m long x 51.12 m wide as summarized in Table 1.  The flight profile from a January 2005 flight test [7] was used to establish the aircraft position and orientation over the two second flight duration needed to extract the simulated feature.  For the data collection phase, the hangar building was over flown while collecting GPS, INS, and ALS data.  In the synthesis phase actual GPS and INS information were used, but the ALS data was replaced with simulated data so that the ALS measurement errors could be controlled.  The heading derived from the measured ALS flight data will be compared with the simulation in the next section Two existing simulators were used to generate the ALS scan angle and ranges measurements [9].  An angle simulator was used to produce an array of angles and times that correspond to the laser scanner parameters.  A range simulator was used to produce range estimates by calculating the geometric difference between the ALS height and the terrain crossing \(simulated using a Digital Terrain Elevation Data \(DTED terrain crossing was found by increasing the range until it intersected the terrain and then iterated until the height accuracy was within some threshold \(1 ?m in this case The simulated range accuracy was determined from the height accuracy using the geometric relationship described in \(15 7 cos dHdR =  \(15 where dR = Range accuracy dH = Height accuracy ALS scan angle The top subplot of Figure 9 illustrates the range accuracy threshold used by the simulator \(determined from the height error and \(15 can be seen in the bottom subplot of Figure 9 because of the range iteration technique.  A 1 ?m height accuracy \(iteration threshold sufficiently small \(i.e. approximating true range influence the standard deviation of the final simulated range measurement \(i.e. true range + sensor noise better represent the capabilities of the true ALS, 25 mm of Additive White Gaussian Noise \(AWGN range measurement as shown in the top subplot of Figure 10 following with the Gaussian distribution function shown in the bottom subplot.  The DTED accuracy was not important for this analysis since only the range measurements to the simulated feature were required for the orientation calculations.  The range to the DTED merely provides terrain measurements for height contrast in the feature extraction algorithms  Figure 9: Range Error Distribution from the Simulator   Figure 10: Range Error + Noise Distribution with 25 mm Noise The feature was synthesized by calculating its height using the planar equations for surface 1 and surface 2 of the AEC hangar roof and the illuminated ground pulse positions as shown in \(16 2 22 11   BH BH   


 Surface Surface V V 16 where V = Vertical height H = Horizontal position vector   B = Plane parameters \(Surface 1 or Surface 2 Pulses that fall within a predetermined space \(represented by white space in Figure 11 points.  The DTED terrain heights at these positions were replaced with feature heights from a feature database prior to range simulation. The synthesized feature is shown in Figure 12  Figure 11: Synthesized Feature Footprint   Figure 12: Synthesized Feature Extraction Simulation Results for Typical System Performance Once a feature has been simulated, the feature extraction and plane intersection algorithms described in the previous section are used to determine the feature orientation.  The result of the least squares plane fit is shown in Figure 13 Notice that a gap is present near the ridgeline in Figure 13 This is due to the exclusion of the actual ridge point Because the peak of the roof contains a ridge cap, inclusion of these points in surface 1 or surface 2 would distort the results.  By using the plane intersection method, these few points \(16 hundred other points would remain in the plane.  The height residuals after subtracting the plane fit are shown in Figure 14.  As expected, these height residuals reflect the same accuracy  25 mm 1 shown previously in Figure 10.  The plane residuals shown in Figure 14 can be used to measure the range accuracy directly from the data.  The next section will describe how to use this information to predict the heading accuracy 8  Figure 13: Data Point Segregation and Plane Fit   Figure 14: Plane Fit Residuals The plane parameters, 1B  and 2B  are then used to find the equation of the intersection line as is shown in Figure 15 The intersection line contains heading information for comparison with some reference data.  In this case, the reference was derived from the same range simulation without noise  Figure 15: Plane / Plane Intersection Line Multiple repetitions of the synthesized feature extraction and plane intersection algorithm were used to determine the repeatable accuracy of the technique over 5000 Monte Carlo runs as shown by the block diagram in Figure 8.  The resulting 1? heading accuracy is shown in Figure 16 for  25 mm 1? ALS range accuracy  Figure 16: Heading Accuracy for 25 mm Range Error The error performance is summarized in Table 2.  The bias term is statistically zero \(as would be expected from the zero mean AWGN added to the simulated range heading error is better than a tenth of a degree Table 2: Heading Error Summary Error Type Magnitude Heading Error Mean 4.0778 x 10-4, deg 1? Heading Standard Deviation 0.0395, deg 0.69, mrad 


1? Heading Standard Deviation 0.0395, deg 0.69, mrad Sensitivity Analysis for Varying System Performance In order to understand how the heading error varies with parameters such as laser ranging accuracy, position accuracy, and heading bias, a sensitivity analysis was conducted.  For computational efficiency the number of repetitions at each parameter setting was reduced to 1000 For each set of 1000 repetitions of the plane intersection algorithm, the one parameter was linearly increased and its affect on the heading accuracy was assessed.  The range accuracy will be considered first, whereby the simulated range noise was increase in 46 steps from 0.001m until 0.31m.  The heading error is computed by comparing the noisy simulated feature intersection with a noise-free feature intersection.  Figure 17 shows the increase in heading standard deviation as the range standard deviation increases while Figure 18 shows the rate of change of the standard deviation per unit of range noise.  Although not shown here the heading resolution bias is zero-mean up to 15 cm and increases to almost 0.6 deg for 30 cm of range noise 9  Figure 17: Heading Error Standard Deviation  Figure 18: Heading Error Standard Deviation Growth Rate per Unit of Range Noise The results shown in Figure 17 illustrate a fairly linear increase in heading error growth for small range errors \(less than 12 cm rate of error growth is constant \(~1.53 deg/m range error.  The results shown in the previous section can be directly estimated using these figures.  If a range noise standard deviation of 25 mm is multiplied by a 1.53 deg/m error growth rate, the predicted heading accuracy would be 0.668 mrad.  This predicted accuracy is approximately the same as the accuracy found from simulation summarized in Table 2 The next parameter to be considered was a constant heading bias.  For the algorithm presented in this paper, the heading bias must be consistent with the position error as would be the case for an IMU operating in a dead reckoning mode Consequently, a heading error was simulated from 0 to 2 degrees in the inertial measurements and then the ENU position was corrupted using the erroneous heading in the direction cosines matrix.  Figure 19 illustrates the residual heading resolution error bias after the simulated heading bias has been removed.  Figure 20 illustrates the standard deviation of the heading resolution error  Figure 19: Heading Resolution Error Bias as a Function of Injected Heading Bias   Figure 20: Heading Resolution Error Standard Deviation as a Function of Injected Heading Bias Up to 2 deg of injected heading bias, there is not discernable effect on the heading resolution accuracy in either the mean or the standard deviation.  This illustrates that the algorithm can detect a constant heading bias without sensitivity to its magnitude The final parameter to be considered was position noise The position noise was varied linearly from 0 to 10 cm in 48 steps.  The response of the error mean to position noise is shown in Figure 21 while the response of the error standard deviation to position noise is shown in Figure 22 10  Figure 21: Heading Resolution Error Bias as a Function of Injected Position Noise   Figure 22: Heading Resolution Error Standard 


Figure 22: Heading Resolution Error Standard Deviation as a Function of Injected Position Noise As the injected position noise increases, the heading error bias remained nearly constant at the mm-level as would be expected since the injected position noise was AWGN Similarly, the heading error standard deviation increases as the injected position noise increases.  As with the laser range noise, the position noise will also determine the heading determination standard deviation.  Inertial positions are generally low noise \(better than 1 cm source is not felt to be as significant of a contributor \(&lt; 0.04 deg As an aside, it is interesting to note that this error will increase slightly as the aircraft height increases.  This is thought to be due to the reduced number of laser pulses that comprise each plane in the intersection equation.  For example, if the aircraft height increases from 350m to 400 m, the pulse count decreases to 68 pulses in surface 1 and 141 pulses in surface 2.  The heading accuracy will decrease by approximately 0.01 degrees 5. FLIGHT TEST PROOF OF CONCEPT  Figure 23: Flight Path over AEC Hangar The flight test data was collected in January 2005 and provided ALS measurements containing several features at the Ohio University Airport including the AEC hangar [7 The flight path over the hangar is shown in Figure 23.  The ALS settings during this flight test were more optimal for this application than for mapping since the gaps between scan lines was large compared to the gap between pulses in a line.  In September 2005, a static GPS survey was conducted \(relative to the KUNI GPS Continuously Operating Reference Station the AEC hangar.  The GPS survey provided an absolute reference to compare with the ALS measurements.  The lateral measurement accuracy of this survey was thought to be on the order of  20 cm because of antenna placement uncertainty Planes were fit to the ALS data from each side of the hangar roof as described previously as shown in Figure 24.  The plane fits are shown in lighter colors \(cyan and magenta than the measured data \(blue and red  Figure 24: Two Planes fit to the Data  Figure 24 is only intended to provide an overview since the plane fit residuals contain more information as shown in Figure 25.  The plane fit residuals indicate 9 cm of height accuracy \(1 11  Figure 25: Plane Fit Residuals The resulting plane intersection line was overlaid on the ALS measurements as shown in Figure 26.  The line was a close visual match, but when comparing the calculated line with the surveyed line, slight errors can be observed  Figure 26: Line Formed by Plane Intersection A closer examination of the two lines in the horizontal plane reveals their differences in the heading as shown in Figure 27  Figure 27: Intersection Line Comparison As mentioned previously, the measured plane-fit residuals provide an indication of the heading accuracy that could be expected from the real data if the survey was perfect.  Since the flight test residuals were within the linear region of the empirical error curves shown in Figure 17, the expected heading accuracy should be predictable.  Since the measured range accuracy is 9 cm \(from the plane-ft residuals heading accuracy is expected to be 0.1377 deg \(at 1.53 


deg/m to 2.4 mrad.  This accuracy is better than the typical heading alignment accuracy of a commercial navigation grade INS The actual heading angle of the two vectors is summarized in Table 3 Table 3: Hangar Ridge Vector Comparison Heading Survey 60.9436, deg Intersection 61.8772, deg Difference 0.9336, deg 16.29, mrad The importance of this proof of concept was to demonstrate the technique and to show that the accuracy can be predicted.  In this case there are several sources of uncertainty that might explain part of the performance degradation The reference survey introduced lateral antenna placement errors of  20cm.  The antenna placement uncertainty is expected to be the dominant error source in the measured data presented here.  Over a 25 m baseline, a  20 cm placement error will become a 0.916 deg pointing error worst case prediction using flight test data Further effort is needed to make a more accurate ground feature survey, but the concept of heading determination from ALS plane intersections has been demonstrated 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper presented results that leverage the accuracy and high number of \(i.e., oversampled measurements along with a priori surveyed features to determine airborne platform heading.  Plane fitting has the affect of averaging the oversampled measurements and can deliver mrad-level heading observations.  The ALS-derived heading information shown in this paper could be used to periodically calibrate tactical grade IMU heading biases while in flight, to perform an ALS / IMU calibration prior to a terrain aided landing, or simply to stabilize the inertial heading measurements when GPS is unavailable.  A simulation was presented to show the theoretical performance of heading determination from plane intersections using typical ALS parameters.  With a perfect survey, the heading accuracy was better than 1 mrad.  Using the same simulation software, a theoretical sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the effect of range noise, heading bias, and position noise on the heading accuracy.  The heading standard deviation was shown to be a function of the range measurement and position standard deviations.  Inertial positions are generally low noise, so this error source was not deemed to be as significant of a contributor as the range noise.  The heading error magnitude did not change the performance in a noticeable way. This theoretical performance assessment was then compared with 12 flight test data.  While the flight test performance was not as good as expected, the error sources were justified.  Even with large survey uncertainties, the heading measurement performance was still within 1 deg.  If a better survey was available, the flight test results were expected to be accurate to within a few mrad Operationally, there are many things than can be done to improve these results.  This paper discussed flight over a single building.  Accuracy can potentially be improved by flying over multiple buildings of larger sizes and at lower altitudes or other types of features.  Additionally, the heading error growth rates could be predicted by tracking the heading change while flying over a building or between two buildings.  With careful attention to calibration and measurement accuracy, these heading alignments can potentially be made at a higher accuracy than a navigation grade INS can align its heading REFERENCES 1] Schenk, T  Modeling and recovering systematic 


1] Schenk, T  Modeling and recovering systematic errors in airborne laser scanners  Proceedings of the OEEPE workshop on Airborne Laserscanning and Interferometric SAR for Detailed Digital Elevation Models, OEEPE Publication no. 40, 2001, pp. 40-48  2] Crombaghs, M.J.E., Brugelmann, R., and d Min, E.J  On the Adjustment of Overlapping Strips of Laseraltimeter Height Data  International Archives of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 2000, 33 B3/1   3] Dickman, J., and Uijt de Haag, M  Aircraft Heading Measurement Potential from an Airborne Laser Scanner Using Edge Extraction  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 3-10, 2007  4] Kraus, K., Pfeifer, N  Determination of Terrain Models in Wooded Areas with Airborne Laser Scanner Data  ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 1998, 53, pp. 193-203  5] Maas, H., Vosselman, G  Two Algorithms for Extracting Building Models from Raw Laser Altimetry Data  ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 1999, 54, pp. 193-203  6] Venable, D., Campbell, J., and Uijt de Haag, M  Feature Extraction and Separation in Airborne Laser Scanner Terrain Integrity Monitors  Digital Avionics Systems Conference, 2005  7] Campbell, J. L., M. Uijt de Haag, van Graas, F  Terrain Referenced Precision Approach Guidance   Proceedings of the ION National Technical Meeting 2005, San Diego, CA, January 24-26, 2005, pp. 643653  8] http://www.geom.umn.edu/software/download/COPYI NG.html, accessed May 2007  9] V. Nguyen, et. al  A Comparison of Line Extraction Algorithms Using 2D Laser Rangefinder for Indoor Mobile Robotics  Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, Aug. 2-6, 2005, pp. 1929-1934  10] Vadlamani, A  Preliminary Design and Analysis of a LIDAR Based Obstacle Detection System   Proceedings of the 24th Digital Avionics Systems Conference  13 BIOGRAPHY Jeff Dickman graduated from Ohio University in 2008 with a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering His research emphasizes navigation system integration and sensor stabilization.  He has also been involved with GPS landing system research and antenna design and measurement.  He is presently working on vision-aided navigation systems.  He is a member of the IEEE ION, AIAA, Eta Kappa Nu, and Tau Beta Pi  Maarten Uijt de Haag is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering at Ohio University and a Principal Investigator with the Ohio University 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


