  1 Accurate Spacecraft Angular Position from DSN VLBI Phases using X-Band Telemetry or DOR Tones D. S. Bagri and Walid Majid Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Ins titute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91109 818-393-4317 Durgadas.S.Bagri@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227At present spacecraft angul ar position with Deep Space Network \(DSN\ined using group delay estimates from very long baseline interferometer \(VLBI phase measurements employing differential one way ranging \(DOR\tones. As an alternative to this approach, we propose estimating position of a spacecraft to half a fringe cycle accuracy using time varia tions between measured and calculated phases as the Earth rotates using DSN VLBI baseline\(s\Combining fringe location of the target with the phase allows high accuracy for spacecraft angular position 
estimate. This can be achieved using telemetry signals of at least 4-8 MSamples/sec data rate or DOR tones 12  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  C ONCEPT 1  3  T HEORY 2  4  E RRORS OF P OSITION E STIMATES 4 
 5  C ALIBRATION E RRORS AND E RROR B UDGET C ONSIDERATIONS 5  6  A VAILABILITY OF S UITABLE C ALIBRATORS 6  7  T ESTS   R ESULTS  AND S UGGESTED F UTURE W ORK 
6  8  C ONCLUSION 7  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT 7  R EFERENCES 7  B IOGRAPHY 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  The angular position estimat es with the Deep Space Network \(DSN\are made using very long baseline Interferometer \(VLBI  Phase m easurem ents at widely  separated frequencies are used to calculate group delay, and these delays are employed to estimate angular position of a spacecraft with respect to a n 
earby calibration source. The accuracy of the angular position estimates is limited by spanned bandwidth for the spacecraft signal because of spectrum management requirements. On the other hand VLBI phase measurements can be used to determine position of a compact radio source \(including spacecraft with high accuracy, but for the interferometer interference fringe cycle ambiguity. This can be resolved using multiple interferometer baselines, e.g., as used by the very long baseline array \(VLBA\ using group delay measurements employing wide band telemetry or widely separated ranging tones, as used in the DSN 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1557, Version 2, Updated January 26, 2009 To resolve the fringe ambiguity, using group delay 
estimates, very high accuracy phase measurements are required, because of limited ra nging tone separa tion \(due to spectrum allocation\s requires high signal to noise ratio SNR\easurements, and that necessitates using strong calibration source and/or long integration on the calibrator. Using strong calibration source generally makes it necessary to have a calibrator angularly far away from the target source because th e density of sources in sky goes down for stronger sources. Long integration causes poor phase measurement accuracy due to instrumental variations with time and pr opagation path changes caused by atmospheric fluctuations for the signal arriving at the interferometer antennas.  Large angular separations also cause calibration errors due to different atmospheric delays along the different lines of sight and lack of knowledge of the exact observing geometry between the source and the 
interferometer baseline. These errors are essentially proportional to the angular separation The effects due to long integration times on each of the sources and therefore large temporal separation between observations of target and ca librator, required to provide adequate SNR for the measurements on the sources, can be ameliorated by interleaving many cycles of short duration observations of the calibrator and target source. As atmospheric fluctuations have power law spectra for temporal or position separation, the affects of atmospheric fluctuations can be minimized by using short cycle times once interferometer phases are calibrated, long total integration time can be achieved by combining observations over many cycles\its to minimizing cycle time because of limited antenna slew rates and settling time required before starting the measurements 
The differential path length changes for signals arriving from the two sources at the antennas increase as angular separation between calibrator a nd target is increased. The calibration errors also increase with increasing angular separation between calibrator and target due to lack of knowledge of the exact source-baseline geometry caused by uncertainty in earth rotation parameters and positions of the antennas. Therefore, to keep these calibration errors small it is desirable to keep the angular separation between calibrator and target source small 2  C ONCEPT  This paper proposes to use variations \(with time\ween observed and calculated phases from an interferometer to 


Y   2 estimate the offset from an a ssumed position of the target i.e., estimate position offset from the difference between observed minus calculated phases for different spatial frequency \(U,V   The initial position of the target could be off from the actual position by several fringe cycles. It can be estimated using group delays from moderate signal to noise ratio \(SNR VLBI phase measurements. The minimum length of observation \(or spatial freque ncy coverage\red for resolving fringe cycle ambiguity depends on the accuracy of the phase measurements. To resolve fringe ambiguity to half cycle accuracy, the difference between measured and calculated phases for an assumed position error of half a fringe should be larger than the combined errors of the phase measurements and fringe fitting The accuracy for relative pos ition of a spacecraft with respect to a calibrator will depend on the phase calibration errors \(due to propagation, instrumental variations and lack of knowledge about the exact geometry of the observations and signal to noise ratio \(SNR\he phase estimates for the calibrator and target sources over the observing period Calibration errors depend on the angular and temporal separation between calibrator a nd target source \(spacecraft measurements. For calibration of the VLBI phases with deep space network \(DSN\34m antennas at 8.4 GHz \(Xband\t should be possible to use a calibrator with flux density >50 mJy \(Jy = 10 26 Wm 2 Hz 1 ng 8 MHz signal bandwidth and about 1 minute integration. A calibrator with X-band flux density > 50 mJy is typically available within about 1 deg of any target pos ition. Temporal separation can be kept small by interleaving observations on target and calibrator with short scan time on each source and repeating many cycles of observations on the two sources to provide enough integration on each source Based on an estimated error budget, we expect about 1/3 nanoradian \(nrad ition accuracy using about an hour of \(actual\I observations with DSN 34m antennas at X-band employing scan time of 40 seconds on each source and 20 seconds to change sources \(a cycle time for target-calibrator-target observations of about 2 minutes The accuracy of the estimated position is limited by calibration errors, so it may be possible to improve the accuracy in a number of ways for example by 1 errors from earth orientation parameters and station location, 2 r-spacecraft separation - this may require employing weaker calibrators by increasing observation sensitivity using more G/T \(where G is antenna gain and T is system temperature\dth, or longer observations, and 3\ using multiple calibration sources on either side of the spacecraft to reduce affects of errors due to observing geometry and propagation 3  T HEORY  Relationship between spatial frequencies \(U,V,W position \(H 002 212 002  002  Then the differential phase for a source at a small offset   Y  002\002 002 002\002\002   sin  X cos sin cos   U H  sin cos sin H cos X 004\002 this source at \(H 004\003 U,V\pute a least squares fit to determine the values of the offset 004\002 the assumed spacecraft position, and a phase bias. Caution is required that there are no large gap in the values 004\003 U,V that would allow a cycle \(2 to be missed however, this is easily satisfied by other constrains discussed below\on the assumption of an initial position for the spacecraft.  A similar approach, based on fringe phase \(delay\\(fringe rate\used in radio astronomy to determine accurate relative position of weak radio any fringe cycle ambiguity, and then the bias phase can be used to determine an accura te position of the spacecraft Minimum spatial frequency \(U,V ions required The minimum amount of \(U,V required for this to work must provide a phase change that is larger than the error of estimating the value of the phase 200\004 004 H 212 H H Z V 212  003  002  002  002 002 212 002 002  H Y H Z cos cos sin sin cos X H 002 ine \(X,Y,Z  page 86   sin cos 0 sin cos sin sin cos cos cos  cos sin sin UH H X VHHY WHHZ 212    Here \(U,V,W\er spatial frequency components expressed in wavelengths, H and 002 are source hour angle and declination, and \(X,Y,Z \antenna baseline coordinates in wavelengths. X, Y and Z are measured in H=0h 002 0 260  H=-6h 002 0 260  002 90 260 rections respectively The interferometer phase for the source position \(H 002  be written as  003  002 be written as  004 002  Knowing the values for \(U,V 002 and the measured value of 004 H 005 004\003 Its desirable to have a minimum phase change of at least 2.5 005 004\003  Alternatively, one can look at this using Fourier transform FT\as shown schematically in Fig 1. Consider the onedimensional case of a source with maximum spatial 212 H 004 004 cos 200\004 


  3 frequency U max x and an observation of the source for 1/3 radian across the sky \(about 1.25 hours of observation for a source on the equator atial frequency coverage \(U is 2x/3 to x. The interferometer coverage can be Fourier transformed to give the beam response as [cos\(2 5xa/6 sinc\(xa/3  Here a = angl e on sky and x=m a xi m u m val u e of U. There are 2.5 cosine wave cycles in angle 0 to a 6/5x If we consider an 8000 km baseline between DSN VLBI antennas, then x=2*10 8 wavelengths 006 e first null of the sinc function is at 15 nrad, and it is multiplied by a cosine function with a 6 nrad period The first peak is at 0 and first negative peak is at 3 nrad, so it will be reduced to 0.935 when it is multiplied by sinc\(6/15  Fig 1 \226 Spatial frequency coverage a nd equivalent beam on the sky using Fourier transform. See text for a calculation of the SNR required to resolve fringe cycle ambiguities  To prevent false detection of a signal one-half fringe away we should have 2.5*root mean square noise plus value at the first null \(2.5 005 0.935 005 0.065, or SNR> 40 for the whole observation. The confidence level can be increased from 2.5 005 to higher values by increasing the time of observations that will make the sinc function narrower by increasing spatial frequency coverage and will also improve SNR. Also it\222s possible to increase the SNR by using a larger bandwidth on the calibrator and employing bandpass calibration to keep the dispersive errors small The initial value of the spacecraft position should not be grossly wrong to avoid appreciable loss of coherence over the signal bandwidth or within an integration time However, there can still be an offset of many fringe cycles between the actual and initial positions without appreciable loss of coherence. For example, consider a 100 MHz signal bandwidth. For a DSN 8000 km baseline, the delay beam width will be about 0.3 \265rad, and therefore from delay considerations one can easily tolerate an offset of 0.1 \265rad Also, in one minute of time a phase change due to an offset of 10 fringe cycles will be less than roughly \(number of fringe offsets*360 deg*scan time/time from max fringe rate to zero fringe rate\10 fringe cycles*360 deg*1min 360min ~10 deg for a source at equator. This phase change has negligible affect on integrating the signal for one minute and can be ignored. Otherwise, one can use short integrations and high spectral resolution to do least square fit to account for these affects Any effect due to phasing errors for antennas within an array at a vlbi site can be kept negligible by phasing the array antennas at each vlbi site on spacecraft \(where there is plenty of signal\hen keep this phasing while observing reference radio source \(that may be a weak quasar phasing errors for normal observing conditions during fast switching observations between radio source and spacecraft 


  4 with a few minute cycle time will be negligible at X-band for a 1-2 km array extent Initial position of the spacecra ft can be determined from group delay estimates If we assume the accuracy required for initial position of a spacecraft to be about 10 fringes a group delay accuracy of a bout 1.2 nsec is required 005  0.4 nsec for 3 sigma confidence\e 1 below shows the minimum signal required to give 005 0.4 nsec for VLBI observations with a pair of DSN 34m antennas under different observing scenarios  Figure 2: DeltaDOR error budget by Jim Border \(from presentati on by Dong Shin, Tracking systems and applications section section 335\o Interplanetary Network Directorate \(Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA 91009\ext for details  Estimates of the required calibrator strength in table 1 show that we can determine group delays with the required accuracy from forty five 40 sec scans spread over 75 minutes using DOR \(differential one-way ranging\ones, or 4 Mbit/s telemetry signals and a calibration source of 50 mJy \(Jy = 10 26 Wm 2 Hz 1  Also it is worth noting that there should be at least a SNR of 3 per scan, so coherent integration over multiple scans can be done without running into the problem of skipping a fringe cycle in the fringe f itting and a good fringe fitting is achieved. This is easily satisfied by other constrains. Further a spacecraft signal having bandwidth corresponding to a data rate of more than about 4 Msamples/sec is required to find its position within a few fringe cycles. If that is known from other considerations, then it may be possible to use a much reduced data rate spacecr aft signal for this approach to work  4  E RRORS OF P OSITION E STIMATES  To get an idea of the e xpected position accuracy from calibrated phase measurements Eq 12.13, p 374-75\based on SNR only, consider a DSN baseline of 8000 km. For observations at X-band \(wavelength 006 3.6 cm\his gives a baseline length of 2.22*10 8  006 This will give a fringe rate of roughly 17 kHz for a low declination source. If we observe for an integration time of 1 hour clock time of 1.25 hours\y 1.7*10 4 3600 1.25 = 7.65*10 7 fringe cycles elapsed during this period We can measure phase with SNR of 50 \(assuming two DSN 34 m antennas having system temperature of 30K bandwidth of 8 MHz, integration time forty five 40 sec scans over 60 minutes, and using a calibration source of 50 mJy at X-band fringe cycle. In the fringe fitting the spacecraft SNR is much larger than what is achieved on a calibrator and therefore its affect can be ignored.  This translates to 0.0034 fringes out of 7.65*10 7 fringes, or < 0.1 nrad due to SNR alone Un-Calibrated Media Media Calibration Platform Calibration DSS Instrumental DSN Control DSN Calibration nrad 


  5 Table 1 \226 Signal to noise ratio \(SNR\and calibrator flux density required to obtain 1-sigma accuracy of 0.4 nsec for group delay determination Object Condition \(Tsys at Xband Required for 0.4 ns delay accuracy Comment S/C DOR tone separation 40 MHz SNR>2 Easily achieved Radio source BW=16 MHz \(64Mbit/s recording integration = 40 sec/scan * 45scans SNR>4/scan 16 mJy calibrator required A calibrator within 0.6 deg possible S/C Telemetry 4 Mbit/s \(BW=8 MHz  SNR>100 4Mbit/s telemetry will have SNR>100 in 1 sec Radio source BW=8 MHz \(32 Mbit/s recording integration = 40sec/scan * 45 scans SNR>7.4/scan 50 mJy calibrator required A calibrator within 1 deg possible 5  C ALIBRATION E RRORS AND E RROR B UDGET C ONSIDERATIONS  An error budget for accurate angular position measurements, using VLBI, has been developed by Jim Border 3   in Fig 2 The error budget shows the expected \(1 sigma\errors from different sources for normal VLBI observing conditions with DSN 34m antennas at X-band using 10 minutes per scan on the spacecraft and calibration sources separated by 6 260 and a total observing time about 1 hour The calibration errors depend on the angular and temporal separation between the calibrator and spacecraft, and can be reduced by reducing the angular and temporal separation. Generally, tropospheric errors are linearly proportional with temporal separation, and errors due to ionospheric, solar plasma earth parameters and station location are linearly proportional to angular separation between the   The dispersive effects can be essentially eliminated by bandpass calibrations but some residual contribution will be left and here we assume that these are linearly dependent on the temporal separation. Thus, by interleaving short observation scans on calibrator and spacecraft and repeating the observations as many times as necessary to accumulate enough integra tion to get required signal to noise \(SNR\on each source, and by keeping angular separation between the two sources small, one can reduce these errors considerably An estimate of the expected calibration errors due to various items has been estimated from the error budget developed by Border [1 In table 2 we give calibration errors for different items as given by Border \(in nsec and how much potential reduction may be possible by using the dependence discu ssed above and reducing 5  3 Dong Shin, \223 IND Tracking presentation - part 2\224, Sept 21, 2007 the angular and temporal separation between calibrator and spacecraft to 1 deg and 1 minute There is a concern that this requires an observation over a period of 1.25 hours, so at least one of the VLBI stations will be pointing at low elevation and propagation errors will increase by approximately th e secant of the change in elevation. Assuming an hour angle coverage of 1/3 radian the propagation errors in calibration due to the atmosphere will increase by a factor of approximately 1.3. Thus, the total root sum squared \(RSS\ration error value will increase from 5.6 ps to about 6.5 ps. For calibration errors of 6.5 ps \(~2 mm\imated using 1 min and 1 deg temporal and angular separation, respectively, between calibrator and spacecraft, and an 8000 km baseline, we will have a calibration error of approximately 0.056 fringe cycle An SNR error contribution of 0.0034 fringe cycle estimated above\ves a total RSS error of ~0.056 fringe cycle. This is out of a total of 7.65*10 7 cycles, or 1 part in 1.4*10 9 or about 0.7 nrad. This \(error\value is much smaller than the mean fringe spacing \(6 nrad\therefore will easily resolve any fringe ambiguity. Now, if we take the phase error in the measured fringe phase offset to also be 0.056 fringe cycle, then the position of the source is uncertain by 0.056*fringe spacing of about 6 nrad \(for 8000 km baseline at X-band\s means we can estimate the relative position of a spacecraft to about 1/3 nrad It should be noted that the accu racy of the position error is dominated by calibration errors. SNR requirements are essentially only to resolve fringe ambiguity. If there is concern about SNR, you can reduce the SNR requirement by increasing the spatial frequency coverage, or alternatively increasing the SNR, either by using a stronger calibration source or by increasing the bandwidth for the calibrator observations. \(For spacecraft there is normally plenty of SNR and therefore this is not a concern  Bandwidth for calibrator observations can be easily increased without affecting the dispersive errors due to instrumentation substantially, especially if the bandpass calibration is used to correct for any dispersion affects 


  6 Table 2 \226 Error budget for angular measurements. The colu mns labeled Border error are from the error budget for angular position measurements for DDOR by Jim Border \(from presentation by Dong Shin, Tracking Systems and Applications Section \(section 335 ry Network Directorate, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, on 21 Sep 2007 Error budget item Border error \(10 min, 6 260 separation Comments  Value \(nrad  Value \(nsec nsec  Calibrator SNR 1.375 0.033  Note 1 Spacecraft SNR 0.7917 0.019  Note 1 Clock Instability 0.1667 0.004 0.0004 Linear with time Dispersive phaseinstrumental 1.2083 0.029 0.0029 Note 2 Station Location 0.4167 0.01 0.0017 Linear with angle Earth Orientation 0.5833 0.014 0.0023 Linear with angle Troposphere\226 systematic 0.5417 0.013 0.0013 Linear with time Troposphere fluctuating 0.833 0.02 0.002 Linear with time Ionosphere 0.833 0.02 0.003 Linear with angle Solar Plasma 0.125 0.003 0.0005 Linear with angle RSS Error   0.0056  Note 1 - This is not directly applicable here because we use phase error at RF instead of delay. This should be included in fringe fitting error for both calibration source and spacecr\aft Note 2 \226 Bandpass calibration and/or use of telemetry data instead of DOR tones would essentially eliminate this affect 6  A VAILABILITY OF S UITABLE C ALIBRATORS  The density of radio sources exceeding a given certain flux density at X-band is known from many studies \(e.g. see    Al so t h e fract i on of sources at a gi ven fl ux densi t y t h at  are compact enough to be used as calibration sources is important. The flux density of interest is 10-100 mJy Samples of radio sources in a few fields with ten to few hundred mJy at X-band have been studied recently for compactness using the NRAO Very Long Baseline Array VLBA\These observations show that about 1/3 of sources with flux density > 10 mJy are compact From t h e integrated number density of radio sources as a function of flux density, and knowing what fraction of sources are compact, one can determine the availability of sources for calibration. Number density plots show that there is about 1 source per square degree at 50 mJy at X-band, and if 1/3 of these sources are compact then we should have a source that can be used for calibration within about 1 deg from any direction 7  T ESTS   R ESULTS  AND S UGGESTED F UTURE W ORK  Relative angular position measurement errors using VLBI are essentially due to two main reasons \226 calibration errors and SNR. Errors due to SNR can be easily calculated from actual observing conditions but estimating the calibration errors is complex. To see whether the above analysis for reducing calibration errors is reasonable, we have made VLBI observations of pairs of known compact radio sources quasars\ 0.5 Jy at X-band with separations of about 1 degree. We used an observing cycle of about 2 minutes between the two sources. The observations were made using DSN 34m antennas at Goldstone and Madrid with a spanned bandwidth of about 80 MHz and 1 hour of total time on each pair. We consider one of the sources from a pair as a calibrator and the second one as a spacecraft, and estimated position of the second source using the fringe fitting approach discussed above. Details of the actual observations, data reduction and results have been described separately by Majid and Bagri  The m a i n  results are summarized in Table 3. The results show that we can estimate the relative positi on of a target source \(with respect to assumed calibrator about <0.2 nrad accuracy Future work includes the following: 1\ng weaker calibrator and DOR tones from a spacecraft \226 to establish that weaker calibrators are adequate. 2 Using telemetry signal instead of DOR t ones from a spacecraft 226 to establish that telemetry signals can be used instead of DOR tones. 3 Reducing calibration errors Reducing the angular separation will reduce systematic effects, but will require using weaker calibrators. That can be compensated by increasing the observing time, which will also increase U,V coverage 260  separation Error \(1 min 1 


  7 Table 3 \226Estimated position error for target relative to calibrator from observations of known pairs of  quasars Calibrator C\Target T pair Flux density mJy Angular separation deg Fringe fitting error converted to delay \(ps Equivalent angular position error  \(see note 1 Observed during 0805+410\(C 0814+425\(T 560 550 2.3 3 0.13 Dec 2005 1030+415\(C 1020+400\(T 480 570 2.4 6 0.26 Dec 2005 1044+719\(C 1053+704\(T 650 350 1.7 3 0.13 Dec 2005 Note 1 \226 The angular error values are obtained by dividi ng the corresponding delay errors by a baseline length of 8000 km in units of nanoseconds 8  C ONCLUSION  An approach to measure the relative position of a spacecraft to about 1/3 nanoradian with the existing DSN system using DOR tones or telemetry signal of about 4 Mbit/sec is described. It employs fringe fitting of VLBI phase measurements to determine the offset from an assumed initial position of the spacecr aft. The required initial approximate position of the spacecraft should be within a few fringes and can be estimated using group delay measurements using DOR tones, or telemetry signals with data rate at least about 4 Mbit/sec \(bandwidth > ~8 MHz Results from preliminary tests using VLBI measurements with DSN 34m antennas, on pairs of known compact radio sources \(quasars\using DOR tones at X-band, are consistent with expected valu es computed. More tests need to be made using telemetry signals from a spacecraft, and using weaker calibration sources, to demonstrate that the approach works A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  Thanks to Dayton Jones for helpful discussions while developing the concept and Christopher Jacobs and Dayton Jones for their comments on the draft of the paper This work was supported in part by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  R EFERENCES   Gabor Lany i Durgadas S. B a gri and Jam e s S. B o rder 223 Angular Position Determina tion of Spacecraft by Radio Interferometry 224 to be published in Proc IEEE Special Issue on "Technical Advances in Deep Space Communications and Tracking", vol 95, No. 11, Nov. 2007  A R Thom pson, J M M o ran and G W  Swenson 223 Interferometry and Synthesis in Radio Astronomy 224, John Wiley & Sons, 1986, Sec 12-2, p 372-376 3 J F Lestrad e A E E E Ro g e rs, A R W h itn ey, A E Neill R B Phillips,  and R A Preston, \223 Phase-referenced VLBI Observations of weak r adio sources \226 Milliarcsecond position of Algol 224, Astronomical Journal, Vol. 99, p16631673, May 1990  W M a ji d and D B a gri  223 Availability of Calibration Sources for Measuring Spacecraft Angular Position with Sub-Nanoradian Accuracy 224. IPN Progress Report 42-165 May 15, 2006  W M a ji d, E Fom a l ont and D B a gri   223 Compactness of Weak Radio Sources at High Frequencies Preliminary Results of VLBA Observations\224, presented at American Astronomical Society Meeting, Honolulu, HI, May 2007   W  A M a ji d and D S B a gri 223Preci si on R e l a t i v e Astrometry with the Deep Space Network\224, IPN Progress Report 42-172, February 15, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Durgadas S. Bagri j oined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\n Pasadena, California, in 2000. At JPL he has been working on the system engineering for the DSN Array and on the improvements in measurement accuracy of tracking data for deep space navigation.  He received his Ph D. in 1975, working at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, India, in the area of radio astronomy instrumentation. He worked as an electronics engineer from 1976-78 and 1983-85, and as a system engineer from 19852000 for the Very Large Array and Very Long Baseline Array of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory NRAO\ the U.S.A. He is a member of the International Astronomical Union \(IAU\ional URSI  international Union of Radio Science  Walid Majid is a member of technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Californi a Institute of Technology Pasadena, CA. His interests include radio interferometry radio, and pulsar astronomy. He is the author of many articles in refereed scientific journals. Dr. Majid holds a Ph.D. in Physics and is a memb er of the American Physical Society and the American Astronomical Society 


In particular we import a simplified light weight OWL version of DOLCE known as DUL DOCLE Ultra Lite 25 as the starting point of all the Ilium Ontologies  as imported by the basic Ilium Framework ontology DUL divides the world into both 4 physical dimensional categories of Event State Action and 3 dimensional categories including Information Realization Object Quality and Region A more detailed description of DOLCE and DUL is beyond the scope of this paper numerous papers and other documentation is available at the LOA DOLCE web site http.//www.loa-cnr.it/DOLCE.html Figure 5 is a view of the basic Ilium Ontology and imported DUL owl ontology depicted in the Top Braid Composer Editor Classes and Properties with the prefix dul are imported from DUL.owl The Class Structure tree is visible in the left panel A more detailed analysis of the DUL Physical Object class is visible along with several Classes that have been imported from the Ilium Geo ontology and subsumed by the DUL PhysicalObject class Thus a geo:TopographicFeaure is defined as a kind of PhysicalObject Likewise Object Properties are seen in the right panel Properties like Classes may have subordinate Properties that specialize the parent Property In the depicted example Dul:isRoleOf is a specialization of the dul:classifies relation The center panel displays details axioms documentation etc related to the selected Class Figure 5 DOLCE Ultra Lite Foundational Ontology The Middle layer includes a number of specialized perspectives on a generic domain These ontologies focus on material assets IliumAsset organizations IliumOrg geographic and cartographic features IliumGeo and situations\(IliumSit At this level analytical standards associated with these perspectives are incorporated and 8 


t rnast M ilitairAs set y6eo Pop0U lbtthFeAtU rt i eO StifiCiAlliEMLilfE  ge.o Sb4toialFet atu re gepo 4 nece ssarfl a where possible imported into the ontologies to leverage 27 and the Ilium Geo ontology incorporates concepts from those standards and improve long-term compatibility with and may import the Open Geographic Modeling Language other ontologies that reference those standards Thus the ontology 28 29 Figure 6 depicts a view of the IliumAsset Ilium Asset ontology incorporates process and service Ontology in the Editor concepts from the NIST Process Specification Language 26 l E tit  dij~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai 1etn ast:PhysicaIA d d Age ast As&etT&enporaryPaet of being able to tan ast ConstrUctionAs set Axiom a ast inatr rtnMnanagere ntAs'r aL tT dl:PhysicalArtiba astAs ctCn p o r i9 n{r o bo HydruogeI cFeatu0re A fmiport  intan TrashportationFeatrF e tu eer PrperIies Fb r r n I R s v dul Sub c tance ne nt particu[ar ncie ih I a.sttMa.rmagenieiAset asti--com-a3 b nt:r-participa p 0 o aslttPlig\247izallAl5tt     t40b Tityli olf tht d b E h dul Inbor aiorealizatic.n Anno tiE S dul Ob jct dfWg,iSX aAssot duI PhysIcalArti Ict services tiA impl In such na iceqaric nt hysical asset dul WgPh5 scaIObt thAt is intehold some hurman or g d u IPhyiaIA9cnt tpical1 is ast-Transp rttiobnAss gesp nat rFa&tUre L Nig 4 VQAV    AdUA   AdviUAV Figure 6 Iliun Below the Middle layer are found domain specific ontologies that mirror and extend the ontological perspectives of the Middle layer We currently have developed a layer of Military OWL ontologies to serve as domain models for a number of legacy operations analysis simulations aeronautical engineering design tools and software prototypes that are used to support the integrated design and development of aeronautical systems For example the MilAsset ontology models military platforms command and control systems and similar physical assets a specialized extension of that describes concepts peculiar to Unmanned Aircraft n Asset Ontology Figure 7 depicts a view of the MillAsset ontology in the Editor Concepts and Properties with the prefix mast are elements of the MilAsset ontology In this view specialized classes formilitary ManeuverableAircraft are depicted as sub-classes of FixedWingAircraft and a large number current maneuverable aircraft types are specified Aircraft types may have specialized models that describe for example sensor configurations or performance characteristics of interest that are particular to one or more plug-ins In this view of the editor an number of model relationships are visible in the Properties window at the right of the frame In the SPARQL panel at the bottom a 9 


SPARQL query discussed in more detail in Section 6 has retrieved the SEAS Plane model information for a particular F-15 instance gure  Mvlititary Asset utnology A number of other military ontologies also exist The MilOrg ondology describes military and related political organizations as well as particular Roles they play in military affairs Tasks they are required to perform and specialized military Actions that perform them MilGeo defines a military perspective on geography with emphasis on terrain polpulation and cultural features of interest to military operations MilGeo contains classes that describe military facilities including Forts Airbases NavalPorts and Forward Operating Locations The MilSit ontology describes Conflicts Campaigns Missions Plans and similar concepts It also defines exactly what constitutes a situation and classifies various types of situations Specialized ontologies relating to military information and communications exist and may be imported in some cases to provide increased detail for those concerns Finally to support military Modeling and Simulation applications the MilSim ontology provides a platform for importing relevant ontologies for a particular study or exercise and a location to create concepts peculiar to individual simulations 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


