  1 Development of Dual-Frequency Airborne Satcom Antenna with Optical Beamforming  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga National Aerospace Laboratory NLR Anthony Fokkerweg 2, 1006 BM Amsterdam, the Netherlands schipiw@nlr.nl A. Thain, G. Peres EADS Innovation Works 18 rue Marius Terce, BP 13050 31025 Toulouse, France andrew.thain@eads.net H. van Gemeren Cyner Substrates Savannahweg 60, 3542 AW Utrecht, the Netherlands hans@cyner.nl  Abstract 227For enhanced communication on board aircraft novel antenna systems with broadband satellite-based capabilities are required. The amount of data agglomerated over a range of passenger services \(VoIP, Web, Email 
SMS, MMS\and over a range of flights, appears highly asymmetrical. The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound. The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, which requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual-fre quency antenna operating both L-band and Ku-band is being explored in this paper 12  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 
1  2  S YSTEM A SPECTS 2  3  P OSITIONING OF ANTENNA ON A IRCRAFT 3  4 DUAL FREQUNCY BAND A NTENNA 4  5  V ERTICAL TRANSMISSION LINES 8  
6  B READBOARD ANTENNAS 9  7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA 11  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK 12  9  C ONCLUSIONS 12  A CKNOWLEDGMENT 13  
R EFERENCES 14  B IOGRAPHIES 15  1  I NTRODUCTION  Novel avionics communication systems are required for increasing flight safety and operational integrity, for optimizing economy of opera tions and for enhancing passenger services. Such system s need the installation of airborne SATCOM antennas with broadband capabilities 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 
25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1469, Version 1, Upda ted January 8, 2009 So far, existing L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application or administrative communications; initially analogue voice, and now data, are tending to evolve towards broadband digital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Ku-band TV geostationary satellites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft. For a short period, broadband internet was available on aircraft vi a Connexion by Boeing \(CBB services. Lufthansa installed the CBB system on some of their long-haul aircraft  In the EC Sixth Framework Programme ANASTASIA 
Airborne New and Advanced Satellite techniques and Technologies in A System Integrated Approach\existing and planned aeronautical SATCOM services, systems and technology have been analysed. It has been concluded that for cockpit services, L-band systems \(namely Inmarsat MTSAT, Iridium and Globalstar\early most suitable whilst Ku-band systems have appeal for passenger services The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound. The inbound traffic requi res the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, which requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna In order to decrease the cost of communication avionics and 
to provide SATCOM services for both cockpit crew and passengers, the ANASTASIA project research is conducted to develop a conformal dual frequency antenna. This means that only one antenna is need ed instead of two because it will provide access to two frequency bands \(L-band and Ku-band\eing conformal \(flush with the aircraft skin decreases installation and expl oitation costs. The research investigations are focuse d on design of dual-frequency phased array antenna elements with low aerodynamic profile, which can serve simultaneously L-band and Kuband communication This paper presents two designs for antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element 


  2 The designs are analyzed by m eans of computer simulations and appropriate measurements. These designs use multiple layers \(microstrip patches, feeds and slots on substrates which can be manufactured by Printed Circuit Board technology. The designs are governed by requirements for interconnecting the aircraft communication system with geostationary satellites. At L-band, the polarization of the antenna should be circular right-hand\he frequency range should be about 1.5 GHz 226 1.7 GHz. At Ku-band, the polarization should be linear and the frequency range should be ~ 10.5 GHz - ~12.5 GHz in receive mode of the research is focused on reaching the objective of a 2 GHz bandwidth. In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes \(e.g. during inter-continental flights\he antenna system should have sufficient gain at low eleva tion angles. Therefore, the phased array antenna system should also have small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals and a high gain \(>30 dB\so at low elevation angles  The success of phased array antennas onboard aircraft is not only governed by the broadband properties of the antenna front-end, but also by the broadband capabilities of the electronic beam forming hardware to steer the beam continuously in the direction of geostationary satellites. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squint-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN\using cascades of optical ring resonators ORRs\as tunable delay elements. The development of a broadband optical beam forming network for Ku-band phased array antennas has been described in Re  The technology development is carried out partly in the Dutch FlySmart project, under contract with SenterNovem an agency of the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, and partly in the European project ANASTASIA  http://www.anastasia-fp6.org  2  S YSTEM A SPECTS  The research targets for the development of a dualfrequency band antenna are governed by INMARSAT specifications for the L-band antenna and the ITU Radio Regulati of t h e K u band. The requirements for the Lband part of the antenna are  Receive band: 1.525 \226 1.559 GHz, 1 % bandwidth  Transmit band: 1.6265 \226 1.6605 GHz, 1 % bandwidth  4.25 % bandwidth for combined Rx/Tx  Circularly polarised \(axial ratio < 6 dB The requirements for the Ku-band part of the antenna are  AES receive band 1 10.70 226 11.70 GHz primary allocation to fixed satellite service  AES receive band 2 12.50 226 12.75 GHz primary allocation to fixed satellite service The Aeronautical Earth Stations \(AES\to comply with ITU-R RECOMMENDATION M and wi t h ETSI EN 302 186 onised European Norm for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations \(AESs\ing in the 11/12/14 GHz frequency band In addition, reception of comme rcial satellite broadcasts is of interest  Satellite TV 11.70 \226 12.50 GHz \(primary allocation to broadcast satellite service In the Dutch FlySmart proj ect, only the receive antenna system will be developed. The objective is to develop a conformal phased array antenna having an instantaneous bandwidth of 2 GHz, covering the whole frequency range of 10.7 to 12.75 GHz Satellites operating in this band are geostationary satellites spaced 2 o apart in the United States and 3 o in Europe. In order to be able to receive these satellites also at high latitudes \(e.g. during inter-continental flights\e antenna system should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles Therefore the antenna system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals and a high gain \(>30 dB\so at low elevation angles. Since gain of the antenna is related to the effective aperture of the antenna in the direction of the satellites, a conformal antenna also covering side parts of the fuselage could be an advantage The phased array antenna shall maintain the proper \(linear polarization during all attitudes and at all positions of the aircraft \(also at high latitudes An antenna to be used on aircraft has to be able to operate in severe environmental conditions concerning temperature pressure, vibration and humidity. The environmental requirements for civil airborne equipment are given in RTCA DO-160 or EUROC   To reach the objective of a 2 GHz bandwidth, both the antenna front-end and the beamforming network should have broadband characteristics Therefore, the antenna front-end consists of an array of stacked patch antennas The beamforming network will consist of an optical network with True Time Delays \(TTD\ch have inherently large bandwidth. To have a 2 o beamwidth and high gain antenna \(approx. 36 dB\arge array antenna is 


  3 needed. The current design is based on an array of 40 by 40 antenna elements \(1600 in total 3  P OSITIONING OF ANTENNA ON A IRCRAFT  To get an indication of the required size of a fully operational phased array antenna capable of receiving live satellite TV on board of the aircraft, it is very useful to review some of the commercially available Ku-band satellite dishes and their performance characteristics Dishes of different size de signed to receive linearly polarised satellite signals in the frequency band of 10.7512.75 GHz may be compared to get an idea of the influence of the size on the RF performance.  Table 1 shows the RF performances of the Raven R70 satellite dish  Antenna Dimensions 67.5cm  x 59.5cm Operating Frequency 10.75-12.75 GHz Polarisation Linear Gain @ 10.7 GHz 35.4 dBi Gain @ 11.7 GHz 36.0 dBi Gain @ 12.75 GHz 36.9 dBi 3 dB Beamwidth@ 10 .7 GHz 2.4\272 3 dB Beamwidth@ 11.7 GHz 2.2\272 Sidelobe Envelope ETSI 300 159 29-25 log 2.5\272 7\272 8  for  7\272 9.2\272 32-25 log 9.2\272 48\272 10  for 48\272 Antenna Cross-Polarisation 26 dB on axis 21 dB elsewhere Table 1 Antenna Specification Sheet with RF performance of Raven Ku-band \(Rx\ Satellite Dish  For a phased array looking at the broadside direction the size of the array will have to be comparable to the size in Table 1 depending on the desired gain and beamwidth. For an array with low gain elements scanning away from broadside by an angle the gain decreases with cos 002  while the beamwidth increases with 1 cos 002 To provide sufficient gain and a small enough beamwidth at even the largest scan angle the size of the original array required to fulfil the broadside scan condition has to be increased by max 1 cos 002 It should be noted that for large scan angles a number of other effects such as increased reflections and increased cross polarization will further deteriorate the performance. The required scan angle strongly depends on the position of the aircraft on earth. In particular, at high latitudes very large scan angl es are inevitable when the phased array antenna is integrated in the fuselage on top of the aircraft. In order to a void large scan angles, the positioning of phased array antennas at the sides of the fuselage is investigated. For the fuselage of an A380 aircraft the lateral positions of the phased arrays are shown for two locations in Figure 1. The array antenna at the right side is positioned such that the normal is 30 o away from the vertical axis, while at the left side the normal makes an angle of 45 o with the vertical. It is obvious that lower scan angles are required when the arrays are mounted on the sides of the fuselage   Figure 1. The lateral position of a phased array antenna mounted on an A380 aircraft 45\260 from vertical The required scan angles have been assessed for two positions of the antenna on the fuselage having access to seven geostationary satellites at several longitudes. These satellites are given in Table 2. For only one antenna on top of the fuselage the required scan angles are displayed in Figure 2. This figure shows for each aircraft position on earth the minimum required scan angle to connect to one of the seven satellites. With one antenna on top the heading of the aircraft is not of influen ce on the scan angle. It is well demonstrated that the scan a ngles are now acceptable at low latitudes for almost all longitudes. Problems arise when travelling at higher latitudes 


  4   Satellite Longitude AMC 4 101.0\272 W Estrela do Sul 63.0\272 W Intelsat 907 27.5\272  E Sesat 35.9\272  E Yamal 200 90.0\272  E Asiasat 3S 105.5\272  E Superbird C 144.0\272  E Table 2 Geostationary satellites providing Ku-band transponder capacity to s upport CbB Full Scale Launch  Figure 2 Required scan angle towards a Geostationary Satellite with antenna on top of the aircraft  Figure 3 Required scan angle towards a Geostationary Satellite with two antennas positioned on opposite sides at 45\272 from top, aircraft fl ying from East to West  Next consider two antenna s symmetrically placed on opposite sides of the fuselage at 45\272 from the top of the aircraft as is illustrated in Figure 1. For this configuration the scan angles depend on the aircraft\222s heading. Figure 3 shows the minimum required scan angle to connect to one of the seven satellites used for an aircraft heading from West to East. The scan angles are now acceptable at much higher latitudes and again for almost all longitudes 4 DUAL FREQUNCY BAND A NTENNA  The dual-frequency band ante nna for future SATCOM should operate at L-band and Ku-band. At L-band, the polarization should be circul ar and the frequency range should be about 1.3 GHz \226 1.5 GHz. At Ku-band, the polarization should be linearly adjustable and the frequency range should be ~ 10.5 GHz - ~14 GHz. Hence the ratio between the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements is about eight. The L-band antenna elements should be about 8 times larger than the Ku-band ante nna elements. In the case of such a wide separation between the two frequency bands the concept of interleaved array appears to be a promising approach. In other words, different elements can be used for L and Ku-band, which both exhibit their own feed network The elements are arranged in an interleaved way, where extra attention should be paid to the positioning of the elements. In a tight grid, mutual coupling will have an impact on the radiation pattern and may give rise to an increase of the cross-polarized component   Figure 4  Antenna array composed of 24 square building blocks; each building block contains 8x8 Ku-band elements and one L-band element The Ku-band antenna element could be any type, but should have an omni-directional radi ation pattern and should have large bandwidth. Since the aircraft antenna should have a low profile, most suitable ante nna elements are microstrip patches which are fed by apertures in a ground plane. The main disadvantage of these microstrip patch antennas is their limited bandwidth which is on the order of a few percent for a typical patch radiator. This property makes the classical patch antennas less attractive for broadband satellite communication. In order to increase the bandwidth stacked patches have been advocated in literature. In the stacked patch configuration a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch, separated by foam or other space filler In this manner, bandwidths on the order of 30\22635% can be achie   


  5 In the preliminary design as displayed Figure 4, each building block contains 8x8 Ku-band elements, and one Lband element. Here the Ku-band elements are stacked patches and the L-band element is a radiating slot, between the Ku-band elements. The dist ance between the centres of the patches is a half wavelength for the maximum frequency of 12.7 GHz. Hence, the element centres are separated by 11.8 mm from each other. Both he ight and width of the tile are 8 x 11.8mm = 94.4mm and hence the overall size of the tile is 94.4mm by 94.4 mm. The square tile can be used as the building block of a much larger array as is shown in Figure 4. This entire array built with square tiles will contain 24 x 64 = 1536 elements  For the development of a dual-frequency antenna, two different approaches have been explored. Both approaches arrange the Ku-band and L-band elements in an interleaved way, as indicated in Figure 4. Furthermore, both approaches consider stacked Ku-band patches. The main difference is the implementation of the interleaved L-band antenna element. The first approach requires an L-band slot antenna element in a ground plane. The second approach considers a so-called perforated L-band patch in a layer above the Kuband patches  First design with L-band slot and Ku-band patches An L-band slot antenna is formed in a ground plane \(see Figure 5\. It is excited by microstrip feed lines from below The Ku-band patches are situated above this ground plane and are themselves excited by dog bone apertures. A further layer of parasitic elements is located above these patches to increase the bandwidth. The metallic structure is held in place with dielectric spacers To avoid effects of glue seepage, no foam is employed in this design, and all spacers consist of Rogers 5880 and Rogers 4003 \(see Figure 6\The thicknesses were optimised to produce the desired bandwidth. Since the Ku band patches are located above the L-band slot. Both Ku-band patches and L-band patches are fed by vertical coaxial lines consisting of 5 vias penetrating the substrate, for connecting the beam forming network   Figure 5 Design of dual-fre quency antenna with L-band slot and stacked Ku-band patches   Figure 6 Dielectric layer stac k of design with L-band slots, and stacked Ku-band patches  Design of single L-band antenna element The dimensions of the L-band slot antenna are constrained by the size of the Ku-band element. These constraints results in less flexibility for designing the L-band element Since a ground-plane with slots is used for the excitation of Ku-band patches, the same plan e can be used to implement two orthogonally crossed slots in this plane. Each L-band slot is symmetrical excited by two feed lines. The resonance frequency depends on the length of the slots. Optimisation of the bandwidth was found by small changes in the length and width of the slot. Since each slot is symmetrically fed by two feed lines a power divider is needed to split the antenna connection into two equally phased and levelled parts in order to obtain circular polarisation The L-band antenna with orthogonally crossed slots was simulated using Ansoft HFSS. The return loss of the L-band patch \(see Figure 7\s the required bandwidth in the Rx band. A small adjustment of the slots is needed to shift the resonance peak a little to a higher frequency. The radiation pattern as displayed in Figure 8 is uniform but is weak for low elevation angles due to the position of the slot at the bottom of the dielectric stack  Figure 7 Return loss of L-band slot antenna  


  6  Figure 8 Radiation pattern of L-band slot antenna  Design of single Ku-band antenna element Figure 9 shows the design of the present K u band antenna element consisting of a multilayer structure where the parasitic and radiating patches are mounted on commercially available Duro id substrates. The space between the patches is filled w ith typical space filler that is being developed for this purpose. The lowest patch is being fed by an aperture in a lower ground plane, again mounted on a substrate. On the lower side of this substrate are horizontal feed lines, which are connected to shielded vertical feed lines to provide connections with the beam forming network on a lower layer The K u band antenna design has been optimised by using ANSOFT HFSS simulation software The dimensions of the patches, dog bone aperture and thicknesses of foam layers have been optimised with the aim to get an antenna which could span the frequency-band from 10.7 to 12.75 GHz   Figure 9 ANSOFT HFSS model for stacked Ku-band patch antenna, with addition al ground plane at 5 mm  Some results of the design and optimization process are shown in Figure 10, Figure 11 and Figure 12. The design has a ground plane at a distance of 5 mm from the planar layer with feed traces. The f unction of this ground plane is to shield the antenna element from the layers below the ground plane in order to minimise the influence on the element. From a manufacturing point of view, a maximum distance of 5 mm was recommended. Figure 10 and Figure 11 show the computed radiation patterns for co- and cross polarization \(according to Ludwig 222s third definition sections in the hemisphere \(at 0 004  and 90 o 004  ground plane, excited at port 1   Figure 11 Radiation patterns for dual-polarized Ku band patch antenna 0 o 003  degrees The computed gain of this st acked patch antenna element is about 9dBi. Furthermore, it can be observed that the radiation pattern of this stacked antenna element shows fair omni-directional behavior, which is required for good performance in a large antenna array. Figure 12 displays the reflection coefficients of the antenna element. Notice that the return loss is below -10 dB in the frequency range between 10.7 to 12.75 GHz, as aimed, which indicates that this element has sufficiently large bandwidth for broadband data transmission. This Ku-band antenna element satisfies the preset requirements \(see the inset in Figure 12   Figure 10 Radiation patterns for dual-polarized Kuband patch antenna 0 o 004  and 90 o 004  ground plane, excited at port 2  003  and 90 


  7  Figure 12 Return loss of stacked Ku-band patch antenna with ground plane at 5 mm distance  Second design with L-band perforated patch The second design was inspired by Ref   where the dualfrequency antenna was intended to operate in the L and X bands. Here we have scaled the dimensions to create an Lband patch that resonates in the SATCOM band and so that the X band elements become Ku band elements. The L-band element is situated above the Ku-band elements \(see Figure 13\It consists of a proxim ity fed patch antenna possessing perforations to allow the Ku-ba nd patch elements to radiate The Ku-band elements themselv es consist of an aperture excited patch to which a parasitic patch element has been added, as in design A. Th e dielectric stack was based roughly on the \221Strip \226 Slot \226 Foam \226 Inverted Patch\222  to provide the required bandwidth  The final design is displayed in Figure 13. An array of Kuband patches radiates through windows in the L-band patch   Figure 13  Design of dual-frequency antenna with L-band perforated patch and stacked Ku-band patches   Figure 14 Dielectric stack of design with L-band perforated patch and stacked Ku-band patches  Simulations were performed with CST Microwave Studio In Figure 15 and Figure 16 we show the return loss and radiation pattern for the L-band patch. Unlike the first design with L-band slot, each element covers both Rx and Tx bands. We observe a good be haviour in the Tx band and an acceptable behaviour in the Rx band. The radiation pattern is sufficiently uniform to provide the quasi hemispherical cove rage required   Figure 15 Return loss of L-band perforated patch  Figure 16 Radiation pattern of L-band perforated patch 


  8 Due to the fact that the el ectromagnetic behaviour of a particular patch can depend upon its neighbouring environment we study a number of different patch locations with either of the two linear polarisations. The port numbers corresponding to these patches are shown in Figure 17   Figure 17 Ku-band patches that were analyzed  In Figure 18 we display the return loss for the Ku-band element positions as indicated in Figure 17. We observe that the resonant behaviour does ha ve a dependence of the local geometry of the L-band patch, but that the values remain within acceptable bounds. The ra diation pattern \(E-plane see Figure 19\s some dependence upon patch position, which should be taken into account when considering beam-forming algorithms. Note, that the discontinuity in the diagram is due to an infinite ground employed in the simulations The radiation pattern narrows significantly for the H-plane \(see Figure 20\As a consequence, this present design is less suitable for embedding in a Ku-band steerable phased array antenna   Figure 18 Return losses of Ku-band antenna elements  Figure 19 Radiation patterns in the E-plane of Ku-band antenna elements   Figure 20 Radiation patterns in the H-plane of Ku-band antenna elements \(discontinuity in diagram is due to use of infinite ground plane in simulations  5  V ERTICAL TRANSMISSION LINES  To achieve sufficient gain the final antenna must have at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Beneath the feed lines there must be a separation of at least 5mm to have an acceptable decrease in return loss. The larger this distance gets, the lesser the influence on the return loss. This 5 mm in air is much larger as the rule of thumb of lambda/100 for not needing a transmission line connection There are several solutions possible to bridge this gap with a transmission line  The leading choice was th e capabilities of the PCB manufacturer. A solution with vertical vias was chosen Figure 21 shows the HFSS model that feeds the two dogbone slots of one Ku-band antenna element 


  9  Figure 21 Design of vertical feed lines for Ku-band element The detailed design of the vertical feed line is shown in Figure 22. The green cylinde r represents the centre conductor. The four outer cylinders represent the outer conductor in a transmission line. The dimensions of the vias were optimized using ANSOFT HFSS and CST software The electric-field di stribution in Figure 23 shows that this via system can be used as a vertical feed line   Figure 22 ANSOFT HFSS model for vertical transmission line   Figure 23 E-field distributio n in planar cross section  Several samples of this vertical transmission line were manufactured. So far, most samples showed some misalignment between vias and feeds. Research is going on to improve the process for manufacturing the vertical transmission lines. The focus is on the use of stable substrates which are less sensitive to temperature variations in the manufacturing process 6  B READBOARD ANTENNAS  The detailed design of the dua l-frequency band antenna to be manufactured and tested c ontains three main parts \(see Figure 24 1  Front part of Ku-band antenna \(PCB\222s with Ku-band patches, slots, and feed lin es spacers 2  Vertical feed lines \(using vi as in a typical substrate 3  Optical Beam Forming Network  Figure 24 Design of dual-frequency antenna with vertical feed lines and Optical Beam Forming Network OBFN The front part is a multi-layer structure, with 8x8 Ku-band stacked antenna patches, a nd two crossed L-band slot antennas in a the ground plane. The middle part contains socalled vertical feed-lines wh ich are manufactured by means of a number of vias in a Printed Circuit Board \(PCB\ with thickness of about 5 mm. These vertical feed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower layers, separated by a substrate of at least 5mm. Finally, the lower layers contain 8 planar feed networ ks for combining 8 Ku-band antenna elements in one direction, and one planar feed networks for combing the L-band elements to achieve circular polarization. The lower layers of the tile will contain 8 feeds \(connectors for the Ku-band part. These connectors are attached to an 8x1 Optical Beam Forming Network \(OBFN\of the beam of the Ku-band antenna array in one direction. The Optical Beam Forming Network is described in Ref  Key element in the above design of the breadboard antenna 


  10 is the availability of the ver tical feed line system. As was already mentioned there were severe problems with manufacturing this key element Therefore, it was decided to investigate separately the performances of the other key elements of the breadboard antenna, and to manufacture two test antennas without vertical feed line system The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Ku-ba nd stacked patches. The objective of this test antenna is to measure separately the performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements \(see Figure 25 terminate at the edge of substr ate, so that 8 connectors can be attached. In combination with the prototype 8x1 OBFN a Ku-band phased array antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured perform  Figure 25 Breadboard Ku-band antenna array with 8x8 feed network Dual-frequency test antenna The first test antenna consists of a multilayer stack with Lband slots and 8x8 Ku-band st acked patches. The bottom side of this test antenna is shown in Figure 26. The properties of L-band antenna elements are measured via connectors at the edge of the multilayer stack \(see also Figure 26\e Ku-band antenna elements are measured via sl ots in the feed substrate  Figure 26 Bottom view of test antenna one, with feeds for L-band slots at edges of multilayer stack Figure 27 shows the measured return losses of two ports of the L-band slots. The observed resonance frequency is about 1.55 GHz, and the measured bandwidth is approximately at 1 Ghz. These measured performance almost satisfies the requirement s for the receive band of the L-band antenna  Figure 27 Reflection coefficient of L-band slots in dualfrequency antenna stack The properties of a Ku-band antenna element in the dualfrequency test antenna stack were measured as follows. An artificial slot was made in the f eed substrate in order to have access to the ground plane of Ku-band antenna elements Then, a small semi-rigid cable wa s attached to the feed of the Ku-band element and to the ground plane via that artificial slot. Some pre liminary results of these measurements are given below Figure 28 shows preliminary measured data of the return loss of a Ku-band antenna element where all L-band connectors were terminated with appropriate 50 loads. It can be observed that the return loss is rather high in the frequency band from 10.7 to 12 7 GHz. However, it should be noticed that the surrounding Ku-band elements were not terminated. Furthermore, it appeared that the return loss 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


