  1 A Diagnostic Approach for Electro-Mechanical Actuators in Aerospace Systems  Edward Balaban NASA Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA, 94035 650-604-5655 edward.balaban@nasa.gov Abhinav Saxena Research Institute for Advanced Computer Science NASA Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA, 94035  Prasun Bansal Mission Critical Technologies, Inc NASA Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA, 94035 Kai F. Goebel NASA Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA, 94035 Paul Stoelting Moog Inc East Aurora, NY 14052 Simon Curran Moog Inc 
East Aurora, NY 14052 Abstract 227Electro-mechanical actuators \(EMA\re finding increasing use in aerospace appli cations, especially with the trend towards all all-electric aircraft and spacecraft designs However, electro-mechanical actuators still lack the knowledge base accumulated for other fielded actuator types, particularly with regard to fault detection and characterization.  This paper presents a thorough analysis of some of the critical failure modes documented for EMAs and describes experiments conducted on detecting and isolating a subset of them. The list of failures has been prepared through an extensive Failure Modes and Criticality Analysis \(FMECA\reference, literature review, and accessible industry experience. Methods for data acquisition and validation of algorithms on EMA test stands are 
described. A variety of condition indicators were developed that enabled detection, identification, and isolation among the various fault modes.  A diagnostic algorithm based on an artificial neural network is shown to operate successfully using these condition indicators and furthermore, robustness of these diagnostic routines to sensor faults is demonstrated by showing their ability to distinguish between them and component failures. The paper concludes with a roadmap leading from this effort towards developing successful prognostic algorithms for electromechanical actuators 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I 
NTRODUCTION 1  2  EMA  F AULTS 2  3  D ATA A CQUISITION 7  4  F EATURE E XTRACTION AND T HE D IAGNOSTIC S YSTEM 9  5  R ESULTS   D ISCUSSION 
11  6  P LANS F OR F UTURE W ORK 11  7  C ONCLUSIONS 11  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS 12  R EFERENCES 12  B IOGRAPHIES 12  1  1 
978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1345, Version 4 Updated February 13, 2009 1  I NTRODUCTION  Electro-mechanical Actuators are used in a variety of aerospace applications, from ci vilian airliners to robotic spacecraft. Although EMAs are still relative newcomers to the aerospace field the concept of all-electric aircraft and spacecraft designs promises an even wider use of EMAs in the future at the expense of hydraulic actuators. Actuators are safety-critical components of an aerospace system and an undetected actuator failure can lead to serious consequences. Even though act uators have been studied extensively from a functional point of view - in order to help develop new and improved designs - feedback from the field 
is still needed for a better understanding of various fault modes of the often complex EMA assemblies. EMA fault diagnosis poses an interesting research problem as it is composed of electrical, el ectronic, and mechanical subsystems, which results in intricate failure modes and effects. Any fault in these sub-assemblies needs to be successfully and efficiently det ected, identified, and isolated using a limited set of sensor signals available. Aerospace applications in particular have very strict constraints on weight and volume, where multiple redundant systems come with considerable cost and weight penalty. In order to fulfill the stringent reliability requirements, an actuator with no hardware redundancy must be equipped with a sophisticated diagnostic, prognostic, and recovery system.  Since the 
current generation of actuators is often under-instrumented physics-based modeling of failure modes and mechanisms can help make the most of the available measurements Furthermore, given the strict safety considerations of aerospace systems, a health management system must leave enough time for contingency management before a catastrophic event may take place. Early fault detection lays the foundation of successful pr ognostic and mitigation steps The desire to obtain early fault detection, however, must be balanced against the need to keep false positive rates low False negatives not only reduce the diagnostic confidence but can also result in unnecessary, yet often costly and 


  2 disruptive, mitigation actions. Therefore, the quality of the health management system can have a direct impact on the performance of the client actuator Of the various kinds of actuators, EMAs were chosen for this study because of their growing role in the aerospace field. They are relatively co mpact and can offer high powerto-weight ratios and motion velocities.  We also decided to concentrate on actuators suitabl e for use with flight control surfaces, to build on the previous F-18 flight experiments at NASA Dryden Flight Research Center   whi c h l e d us t o  the choice of linear, ba llscrew type EMAs In the next section we present a discussion on various EMA fault modes, including the most common sensor faults. A summary of fault modes has been presented based on our literature search and interactions with the industry. We then describe the experimental setup and the data acquisition system, followed by a detailed discussion of the new diagnostic system. Results are presented next, followed by a discussion and plans for future work 2  EMA  F AULTS  Since EMAs, as mentioned earlier, are relatively new to the field of aerospace, they have not yet been deployed for a long enough time or in large enough numbers to accumulate reliable fault statistics.  Most of the commercial airliners in service still rely on hydraulic actuation for their primary flight surfaces, landing gear, and other major components Small EMAs are sometimes used for secondary functions such as trim tabs actuation and spoiler or speed break deployment.  The situation is similar in military applications, where most of the aircraft in the active inventory rely on hydraulic actuation, although there are efforts currently under way to deploy electro-mechanical actuators in utility roles \(landing gear, aerial refueling doors, and weapons bay doors  in the future models of some of the new designs, such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Recently designed commercial ai rcraft, such as Boeing 787 or Airbus 380, are also starti ng to use more EMAs in the roles traditionally reserved for hydraulic systems.  On the 787, for example, EMAs, in addition to spoilers and trim actuation, operate landing gear breaks and are part of the environmental control system Space vehicles currently use EMAs for functions such as positioning of antennas and movement of robotic arms, with some of the future rocket launcher designs intending to use EMAs for their thrust vector co ntrol.  The challenges with obtaining performance statistics in this domain are that only a small number of each vehicle type are usually built and that the onboard actuators are rarely used for more than a few hours total throughout the entire service life of a vehicle The fault and failure information for EMAs \(summarized in tables 1, 2, 3, and 4\e primarily from the following sources: Failure Modes, Effects, and Criticality Analysis FMECA\ information provided by Moog Corporation published industrial information [2, 3 informatio n fro m th e US military reports [4  as w e ll as from our gene ral su r v e y  of publications related to actuator diagnostics [5, 6  The faults in the tables 1, 2, 3, and 4 are loosely distributed among four general categories: sensor, mechanical or structural, motor, and power or electrical.  Some of the faults, such as return channe l jam, are specific to linear direct-drive ballscrew electrom echanical actuators which are the primary focus of our research.  Others, such as motor or electrical faults, are applicable to a wider range of EMAs Each of the fault modes is presented along with the failure mode it can lead to, if not diagnosed and remedied in time The transition from fault to failure in EMAs and prediction of their remaining useful life is the subject of our ongoing research. The probability and criticality numbers refer to the fault modes and are presented in an abstracted form, on a scale from 1 to 10.  This was done both to protect proprietary information and to aggregate data collected from the various sources in a unified manner We also included suggestions on the general approach for diagnosing and prognosing each fault type \226 model based data-driven, or hybrid. This was mainly done for our own research planning purposes, although we hope that it may be of some value to the reader as well.  The prototype diagnostic system developed for this particular effort utilized data-driven methods only; we do, however, have physical models of varying degrees of fidelity currently under development as well Mechanical/Structural Faults Mechanical and structural fau lts are likely to be the main source of concern for electro-m echanical actuators deployed in the demanding conditions of aerospace applications Their main causes are exce ssive loads, environmental factors, lubrication issues, and manufacturing defects.  This class of faults has been the primary focus of our research for some time, as we feel that out of all the actuator components, these have the fewest number of effective diagnostic and prognostic methods developed for at present One of the exceptions to the ab ove observation, however, is bearing faults. They have been subjects of extensive studies over the course of the last few decades and, therefore, were not pursued as part of ours.  Interested reader can refer to [7  e as a startin g point on the subject. Faults germane to multi-channel EMAs \(which utilize multiple motors via a transmission\ or to geared actuators are not covered in this paper either.  They may be a subject of our future work Motor Faults Motor faults are the next most important category of EMA faults.  Motors are often operated at high rotational rates 


  3 leading to increased temperatur es within their housing and significant mechanical stresses - thus making them prone to developing winding shorts, rotor shaft eccentricities, and other problems There have been several thorough research efforts in the recent years on the subject of electrical motor faults [5, 6 9  There is still, however, a need for further research therefore this class of faults remain high on our interest list and will be incorporated in into our upcoming experiments Electrical/Electronic Faults The characteristics of electrical and electronic faults in the power and control systems of EMAs do not differ significantly from the same type of faults in other aerospace systems.  The Diagnostics Prognostics Group at NASA Ames has a team dedicated to conducting research in this domain.  Some of their accomplishments are described in 10, 11 t h is p a p e r we list o n ly th e m o st lik ely o r  significant faults of this category, without going into too much detail Sensor Faults A study to classify and diagnose sensor faults common to aerospace applications was condu cted in parallel with the development of the EMA diagnostic system and represented a significant research effort in its own right.  It will be the subject of a separate paper; we will, however, describe modeling and diagnosis of sensor faults seeded along with the actuator system faults for this series of experiments Table 1 below summarizes the general categories of sensor faults used in our work and provides estimates of the range and median values of their parameters, as identified during our literature review [12-16 Table 1 \226Sensor Fault Categories Fault Range Median Remarks Bias 1.2% to 60 20 change over the nominal value 0.3 to 0.7 0.45 Scale Factor Scaling 2.5 to 4.8 3.28 Scale Factor Drift 6% to 75 29 change over the nominal value reported at the end of the drift \(or data set Noise 2.5% -to 250 20 peak to peak values over the nominal value Intermittent Dropout 2 to 10 drops 8 drops Over a range of 20 to 29% of the reported data set, with median range of 23  Experiments described in this paper covered bias, scaling and drift faults only.  Noisy sensors and intermittent dropouts will be incorporated in the near future.  Due to the current equipment limitations, as described in the later sections, the sensor faults we re simulated in software Subset of Fault Modes Selected for the Study Along with the sensor faults described in the previous section, two mechanical faults were selected as the injected faults in our experiments Return channel jam return channel is a component of a ballscrew actuator that transports balls in the circuits within the nut from the end of a circuit back to its beginning, as the nut travels along the rotating screw.  A jam in the return channel, caused, for example, by a piece of debris or a deformed ball, would stop that circulation and could lead to catastrophic consequences. Return channel jams are of a particular interest to us because they are a class of faults that cannot easily be addressed by design modifications Spalling spalling refers to the development of indentations in metal surfaces at high stress contact points. A severe case of a spall may result in metal flakes separating from the surface, creating potentially dangerous debris.  In the case of a ballscrew, where the contact surfaces of the nut and the screw \(as well as the balls\may be subject to spalling, one of the consequences may be increased vibration, which can lead to damage of other actuator components.  The likelihood of an EMA developing a spall in one of its components over its lifetime is not insignificant 


  4  Table 2 \226 Mechanical/Structural Fault Modes Component Fault Failure Relative Probability 1-10, low to high Relative Criticality 1-10, low to high Suggested Model Type Physics, Data/Trending Hybrid spalling \(mild severe vibrations, metal flakes separating 5 3 Hybrid screw excessive wear/backlash severe backlash 7 3 Data/Trending spalling \(mild severe vibrations, metal flakes separating 5 3 Hybrid backlash severe backlash 7 3 Data/Trending degraded operation seizure/disintegration 3 5 Data/Trending binding/sticking seizure/disintegration 3 3 Data/Trending nut bent/dented/warped seizure/disintegration 1 5 Data/Trending ball return\(s jam seizure/disintegration 5 8 Hybrid spalling severe vibrations, metal flakes separating 5 3 Hybrid binding/sticking seizure/disintegration 2 4 Data/Trending corroded severe vibrations, metal flakes separating seizure/disintegration 2 5 Hybrid bearings backlash severe backlash, vibration disintegration 7 3 Data/Trending piston crack\(s\slop/play struct ural failure 1 10 Data/Trending wear structural failure 4 6 Physics dynamic seals structural failure same 3 8 Data/Trending static seals structural failure same 2 8 Data/Trending Spalling/deformation severe vibrations, metal flakes separating 5 3 Hybrid balls excessive wear backlash 7 5 Hybrid mountings crack\(s\, slop/play complete failure 1 7 Data/Trending contamination seizure/disintegration 8 5 Data/Trending chemical breakdown seizure/disintegration 4 5 Physics lubricant run-dry seizure/disintegration 3 10 Hybrid  


  5  Table 3 \226Motor Fault Modes Component Fault Failure Relative Probability 1-10, low to high Relative Criticality \(110, low to high Suggested Model Type \(Physics Data/Trending Hybrid degraded operation \(can manifest itself as increased resistance disconnect 5 6 Data/Trending connectors for stator coils resolver, RTD, brake coil, and ground intermittent contact disconnect 3 7 Data/Trending stator coil fails open \(results in degraded EMA performance same 4 4 Physics stator insulation deterioration / wire chafing \(manifests itself via reduced or intermittent current through stator coil or intermittent shorts short circuit 5 5 Data/Trending coil fails open \(this and the other resolver faults can result in inaccurate position reports, EMA performance deterioration same 4 10 Physics intermittent coil failures permanent coil failure 5 7 Data/Trending resolver insulation deterioration / wire chafing short circuit 5 7 Data/Trending rotor-magnets chemical bond deterioration complete magnet separation likely leading to motor failure 2 10 Data/Trending rotor and magnets rotor eccentricity support bearing failure 3 6 Physics 


  6 Table 4 \226 Electrical/Electronic Faults  Component Fault Failure Relative Probability 1-10, low to high Relative Criticality 1-10, low to high Suggested Model Type Physics, Data/Trending Hybrid short circuit same 5 10 Hybrid open circuit same 5 10 Hybrid intermittent performance short circuit or open circuit 5 8 Data/Trending Power supply thermal runaway dielectric breakdown of components, leading to open or short circuits 6 10 Hybrid Controller capacitors dielectric breakdown short circuit or open circuit 4 8 Hybrid Controller transistors dielectric breakdown short circuit or open circuit 4 8 Hybrid short circuit same 5 10 Hybrid open circuit same 5 10 Hybrid Wiring insulation deterioration wire chafing short circuit or open circuit 5 8 Data/Trending Solder joints intermittent contact disconnect 5 8 Hybrid 


  7  3  D ATA A CQUISITION   Figure 1 \226 Moog MaxForce 883-023 test actuator A ballscrew electromechanical actuator was used as the test article in our experiments. The experiments were performed on a stand located at Moog Inc The test actuator,   Moog MaxForce 883-023 \(Figure 1\as connected to the hydraulic load cylinder by a rotating horn as shown in Figure 2Figure 2 Control and data acquisition we re performed by real-time software running on dSPACE platform.  Table 5 contains a list of all of the sensors used on the test platform, as well as their associated sampling frequencies Vibration was measured at four points on the test actuator as shown in Figure 3. All three axes of vibration were measured, with an additional measurement in the Zdirection by the accelerometer mounted directly on the nut of the ball screw. Temperature measurements were provided by a T-type thermocouple on the nut and an RTD embedded in the stator of the motor, as shown in Figure 3  Figure 2 \226 EMA test stand at Moog Corp Table 5 - List of Sensors Measurement Sensor Type Sample Rate Load Model 75 Sensotec Load Cell Bonded foil strain gage compression and tension 3 kHz Position Trans-Tek 0219-0000 LVDT 3 kHz Nut Temperature T-type Thermocouple Copperconstantan thermocouple 3 kHz Motor Temperature Integrated Stator RTD RTD thermistor 3 kHz Torque Producing Current T200 Motor Drive Output Hall effect sensor 3 kHz Motor Velocity T200 Motor Drive Output Resolver 3 kHz 3-Phase Currents 3 LA 25-P Current Transducers Closed loop compensated works on Hall effect 24 kHz X-Y-Z Accelerometers 3 Model 352A24 Piezoelectric ceramic, shear 24 kHz Nut Accelerometer PCB Model 352A24 Piezoelectric ceramic, shear 24 kHz  Load is sensed by a Model 75 Sensotek 50,000 lbf. load cell.  The position of the rod end of the test actuator was measured by a Trans-Tek 0219-0000 Linear Differential Voltage Transducer \(LVDT LEM LA 25-P current transdu cers were used on each motor phase to sense the phase currents.  For data acquisition, the Moog T200 motor drive output an analog signal representing the torque producing current, as well as the motor velocity  Y direction accelerometer  motor thermal couple Z direction accelerometer  Z direction accelerometer Nut housing thermal couple X direction accelerometer  Figure 3 - Location of sensors on Moog MaxForce 883023 actuator  


Baseline 14 20 14 20 Temperature \(degF Simulating Drift Faults in Temperature Sensors   0.16 degF /sec 14 20 Temperature \(degF Simulating Bias Fault in Temperature Sensor   14 20 Time \(seconds Vibration Magnitude Simulating Complete Sensor Failure in Acceleometers   10 16 22 Vibration Level Smulating Scaling Fault in Acclerometers   40% Scaling 10 16 22 0.08 degF/sec 0.23 degF/sec 10 16 22 Bias Fault 10 16 22 Dead Sensor   8 Table 6 - Experiments performed with seeded mechanical faults Experiment Set Description Baseline Data collected with a nominal actuator just before the first set of ball return jam tests One Ball Return Jammed One of the return channels fully blocked Simulates obstruction of the return channel by a detached piece of insulation or other debris Repeatability Tests to determine whether disassembly and reassembly of actuators affects test results.  Five-back-to back runs were conducted Backlash Tests with undersized balls to simulate backlash \(freeplay Spalling The purpose of this series of tests was to determine if a surface flaw \(spall\can be detected using the actuator sensor suit Three flaws have been electro-discharge machined into the screw of the actuator The flaws were machin ed into the entire root of the screw forming a continuous flaw from crest to crest  Tests Performed Table 6 describes the types of mechanical component fault cases introduced during the tests Sensor faults were injected a posteriori, as described in the next section.  Permutations of the conditions below were used to develop 8 scenarios for each of the mechanical component fault cases Motion profile: sinusoid or triangular wave Load type: constant or spring Load level: low \(860 lbs spring force, 900 lbs constant force\or high \(1725 lbs spring force, 1800 lbs constant force For the purposes of training and testing a neural network based classifier, described in the subsequent sections extended duration scenarios were created using the collected data.  These scenarios were designed to preserve the character of the collected data as much as possible, while extending the duration to 180 seconds.  They contain two segments each \226 nominal, to represent a healthy system before the fault occurred and a faulty segment \(90 seconds each\on the test stand the faults had to be seeded before the start of the tests \(due to hardware limitations nominal data was chosen from the experiments conducted under the same conditions.  The total number of scenarios produced was 48: 8 conditions\x \(2 components faults + 4 sensor faults Sensor Fault Simulations Bias Here bias was specified as percentage of the average baseline temperature \(80F calculated over the set of nominal \(no fault injected\enar ios. Bias was injected into temperature sensor data. Gaussian noise was then introduced into the actual amount of bias added, with the signal-to-noise ratio \(SNR\f 5 \(see Figure 4 Drift this fault was also injected into the nut temperature data.  The fault was defined by specifying drift velocity distance traveled in a certain period of time\.  The length of constant drift velocity segments was randomized \(max 1000 data points\nd Gaussian noise introduced into velocity value itself \226 so for each se gment the velocity may be somewhat different from its neighbors.  The signal-to-noise ratio for the later was set to 5 Scaling the signal is amplified by the scaling factor, also with Gaussian noise injected \(SNR of 5 Loss of Signal sensor data from the point of failure replaced by all zeros  Baseline Baseline 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 4 6 8 12 18 2 2 4 6 8 12 18 92 94 96 98 2 4 6 8 12 18 80.5 81 81.5 82 2 4 6 8 12 18 2 2 4 2 4 Baseline  Figure 4 \226 Sensor fault simulations 


  9 4  F EATURE E XTRACTION AND T HE D IAGNOSTIC S YSTEM  Given the complexity of the experimental data and the variety of failure modes \(actuator and sensor failures\, a diagnostic system based on Artificial Neural Networks ANN\was designed. A comprehensive analysis of data was carried out to extract a set of uncorrelated features that would not only detect various fault modes but also disambiguate between sensor and system faults. Keeping the latter requirement, the confus ion matrix \(Table 9\was further partitioned into sections that helped to interpret the results. This section explains the implementation details and enumerates the key aspects of the classifier diagnostic system Feature Extraction Appropriate feature extracti on lays the foundation of a successful \(accurate and reliab le\gnostic system. For a successful practical implemen tation it is desirable that features not only be computationally inexpensive but also be explainable in physical terms. Furthermore, they should be characterized by a\be tween-class and small withinclass variance, b\ should be fairly insensitive to external variables like noise, and c\ld be uncorrelated with other features. Keeping these requirements in mind, we selected a set of seven sensor-feature pairs that were expected to detect and distinguish seven distinct modes of the system: a healthy system, two actuator fault modes, and four different sensor faults \(see Table 7\. Based on an extensive literature search \(see Section 2\sor faults were generated with parameters representative of the real world. Specifically, a bias of 20% value of peak-to-peak temperature signal magnitude, a temperature sensor drift with drift velocity of 0.02 \260F sec, a scaling factor of 1.5 times the original signal peak to-peak amplitude, and a zero output \(dead sensor\re simulated using the baseline data to include various sensor faults Table 7 - Fault vs. Feature Matrix In addition, since there were several different experimental conditions that considerably affect the sensor measurements two additional features were designed that characterize these experimental conditions. These features are described below Table 8 gives an overview of all the features and their significance with respect to different system modes they identify. Features were calculat ed every half a second on a one second long sliding wind ow. Thus for each 90 second long segment \(under various conditions\180 feature points were generated Load Profile Indicator \(LPI Experiments were conducted under two different load profiles, namely sinusoidal and triangular, to cover two extremes of smooth and drastic movements around the point of direction reversal. However in practice, it is expected that a real load profile would lie somewhere in between these two situations. Since a significant difference was observed in sensor measurements under different load profiles, a feature called Load Profile Indicator \(LPI developed to numerically represent the roughness of motion Each one second sampling window is further subdivided into smaller sub-segments of 0.002 seconds and a local slope is calculated for each sub-segment. A variance of absolute values of the slope from these segments is then computed as a feature for operational condition. Triangular profile results in a smaller \(near zero\variance, where as a pure sinusoidal profile results in a higher variance due to smooth peaks. Any combination of triangular and sinusoid segments appropriately results in a representative variance as shown in Figure 5 Sinusoidal  Profile Region Po sition Sig nal Load Profile Indicator  Figure 5 - Load Profile Indicator \(LPI Force Indicator \(FI Loads were applied under two types of forces: opposing force and spring force.  In the case of opposing force motion, a constant force is experienced by the system whereas for spring motion the force is proportional to the displacement from the neutra l position. Computing FI for opposing force is trivial; however, for spring force motion force indicators were computed by assessing the value of spring-constant k at peak position displacements and using them to calculate corresponding forces at all other positions Thus, in addition to the seven features derived from sensor Table 7\ese two condition feat ures were input as part of a nine point vector to the classi fier system \(described next Diagnostic Classifier A three layer Artificial Neural Network \(ANN\was implemented as a multi-category classifier to distinguish between the seven states of the system health. The first layer consisted of nine nodes, with tansigmoid transfer functions Features Faults TD Nut  TD Motor  SD x  SD y  SD Z  DI Motor DI Nut Return Channel Ball Jam X X X X X   Spall   X X X   Nut thermocouple Drift X   X Nut thermocouple Bias X    Z Accel. Scaling X   X Accel Complete Failure X   4 10 Time \(second  0 0 5 15 20 25 30 32 2 2 4 6 


  10 one for each feature in the in put feature vector. The hidden layer had five nodes with logsigmoid transfer function and the output layer had seven nodes with logsigmoid transfer functions, one for each of the seven classification categories. All input features were continuous, real-valued and were standardized to have zero mean and unit variance 1 B i nary t a rget s were as si gne d s u ch t h at of t h e se ve n output bits only the correct categ ory bit turned 1 and the rest stayed 0. Initial weights for th e network were chosen based on standardized input ranges to ensure uniform learning 17  Netwo r ks were train e d  u s ing th e resilien t b a ckpropagation \(RPROP\gorithm   Evaluation Procedure & Results Data were divided into two sets for training and testing purposes, based on the experiment load levels. The network was trained on low load conditions \(~900lbs\ and was tested for high load \(~1800lbs\ditions. In order to obtain a meaningful statistic, 30 ANNs were trained and tested for each experiment and the results averaged. Training was carried out for 200 epochs. Results were further aggregated in the form of a confusion matrix as shown below in Table 9 to observe the False Positive rate \(FP\False Negative rate FN\, Misclassification rate MC\d Non-Identification rate \(NI\. The rows in the co nfusion matrix represent true state of the system and the columns represent estimated states. As shown, misclassification rate is observed as a measure of disambiguation between component faults and sensor faults and as non-identification rate for cases that are not identified as any of the predefined classes. Each category is computed as a percen tage of the total number of observed instances in the respective classes  Table 9  Confusion matrix for two component faults and four sensor faults   NF CF1 CF2 SF1 SF2 SF3 SF4 NF TP FP CF1 TP  CF2  TP  MC SF1 TP    SF2  TP   SF3  TP  NI SF4 FN MC  TP   Table 8 \226Diagnostic Classifier Features  Feature Sensors Definition Fault Modes Rationale Temperature Deviation TD Nut thermocouple Motor thermocouple Absolute deviation from nominal temperature range Spall, jam sensor bias Nut temperature rises due to increased friction from spalled nut. Motor temperature rises due to increased current levels to counter increased resistance Temperatures also change due to bias Drift Indicator DI Nut thermocouple Motor thermocouple A binary feature that assumes the value one if a finite rate of change of temperature is detected within the sampling window, and zero otherwise Sensor drift Monitoring over  some period of time can help identify sensor drift and distinguish it from bias, which is not expected to change continuously in shorter time-intervals Signal Standard Deviation SD Accelerometer s: X, Y, Z on motor housing and one on the Nut Standard deviation of the signal within one sampling window Jam, dead sensor Jam reflects in increased vibrations of the accelerometers mounted on the motor. Dead sensor results in zero output Load Profile Indicator Position sensor Characterizes the smoothness of load profiles ranging between smooth sinusoids to rough triangular profiles All Nature of load the profile significantly changes the vibration signature of the system. This difference should be distinguished from failure signatures Force Indicator Position sensor Assesses the force on actuator For opposing force motion the force remains constant proportional to peak loads. For spring motion force varies with the position and is a fraction of the peak loads All Given combinations of two different load conditions and two load application methods, differences in corresponding sensor signatures should be distinguished from fault signatures 


  11 5  R ESULTS   D ISCUSSION  Based on the procedure described above, a total of 3.46 false positive rate, 1.21% false negative rate, and 0.29 misclassification rates were observed. About 3.8% cases were not identified under any of the defined categories Upon careful observation, it was realized that the relatively high value for non-identification rate can be attributed to several factors.  First, the experiments were conducted under multiple conditions of load levels, load types, and load profiles. Each of these conditions affects the baseline measurements in their own ways, often overlapping with the affects produced by various components and sensor faults For instance, nut temperature may be observed to increase due to ball jam, thermocouple bias, or thermocouple drift faults. However, high loads result in higher temperatures than low loads and spring motion load profile consistently results in higher temperatur es. These changes in load characteristics result in difference in baseline conditions themselves and hence, if not appropriately trained, a classifier finds it difficult to point to any specific reason for such effects. Furthermore, no information regarding ambient temperatures was available from the experimental data. It must be noted that ambient temperatures can affect the baseline measurements as well. Since we partitioned the experimental data into high and low load sets, the classifier did not get a good chance to learn the effects of the load levels and, consequently, th e ability to distinguish them from other effects that cause such overlapping variations \(it also points to a more fundamental weakness of data-driven approaches\ilar effect s are not only limited to temperature variations, but also to the vibration levels measured throug h accelerometers 6  P LANS F OR F UTURE W ORK  There are a number of differ ent avenues for future work Longer duration experiments will be conducted to better characterize the effects of exte rnal factors and obtain more consistent training and testi ng data. This will also provide steady state measurements to es tablish repeatable baselines as well as reveal dynamic effects of the seeded fault conditions. Experiments under controlled conditions will be conducted to characterize the effects of external environment, loading conditions, various fault modes, and severity of those faults. Other experiments will be conducted to develop techniques for detecting motor faults e.g. rotor shaft eccentricity and winding insulation degradation\echanical fa ults requiring high precision high resolution position sensing \(e.g. backlash\ that end plans are under way to carry out experiments on a new actuator test stand \(Figure 6\NASA Ames by seeding faults into the test actuator and the sensing system and observing their signatures while the system operates under a variety of load conditions. The new test stand incorporates a powerful electro-mechanical load actuator \(Moog 886 series\pable of generating up to five metric tons of force The flexible design of the stand accommodates test actuators of various sizes and configurations and its control system allows creation of fully customizable load and motion profiles.  The sensor suite features a load cell accelerometers, as well as high precision position, current and temperature sensors Classifiers rely on features to allow optimal detection and disambiguation between system and sensor faults. While the features described herein are focused mostly on the time domain, other categories of features \(e.g., frequency-based should be considered. As more data becomes available more sophisticated features will be explored for improving the diagnostic performance. Another direction for future work is the verification of dynamic models being developed for actuator systems. These models will then be employed in hybrid diagnostic and prognostic techniques. Sensor fault models validation and verification is yet another potential direction. Experiments with seeded sensor faults on real systems should be conducted to confirm that the models behave correctly. In practice, sensor fault detection should go hand-in-hand with accommodation strategies. The understanding of underlying mechanisms of sensor faults gained in the process will be tapped into when considering new techniques for sensor fault accommodation  Figure 6 \226 New EMA test stand at NASA Ames research center 7  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper describes efforts to identify and categorize fault modes for electro-mechanical actuators \(direct-drive ball screw type in particular\Four main classes of faults are presented: mechanical/structural, motor electrical/electronic, and sensor A subset of faults \(return channel jam, spalling, sensor bias, sensor drift, and sensor scaling\s then selected for a more detailed study and experiments on an electro-mechan ical actuator test stand The data obtained in these experiments were used for feature extraction and tests of the newly created neuralnetwork based diagnostics system.  In the process feasibility of reliably detecting this type of faults was demonstrated.  Diagnostic test results show low false positive, false negative, and misclassification rates, as well as robustness against sensor faults 


  12 A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to extend their gratitude to colleagues at the Prognostic Center of Excellence, NASA Ames Research Center for th eir extensive assistance with this research and preparatio n of the manuscript.  They would also like to thank Joel Rack \(Moog Corporation\or his efforts in producing the experimental data, as well as Matthew Watson, Matthew Smith, and their team members at Impact Technologies for their contributions to analysis of the EMA fault modes and construction of the new actuator test facility R EFERENCES    S. C. J. Je nse n  G D.   Da wso n  D Flight test  experience with an electrome chanical actuator on theF18 Systems Research Aircraft 2  D  S  B o d d e n  S c o t t C l e m e n t s  N  S c h l e y et al  223Seeded Failure Testing and Analysis of an ElectroMechanical Actuator,\224 in Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Big Sky, MT, 2007, pp. 1-8 3  L  U   G o k d e r e  S  L  C h i u  K  J  K e l l e r et al 223Lifetime control of electromechanical actuators,\224 in Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE, Big Sky, MT, 2005, pp. 35233531   In-Service Reliability Data of Continuously Active Ballscrew and Geared Flight Control Actuation Systems AIR5713, SAE Aerospace, 2006 5  A Arv allo, "C o n d itio n-b ased Main tan e n ce Of Act u ator Systems Using A Model-Based Approach University of Texas, Austin 2000   D. T Pa ul B ri a n H v ass  Condition Based Maintenance For Intelligent Electromechanical Actuators  University of Texas, Austin, 2004   M J. Deva ney and L. E r en 223Det ect i ng m o t o r bea r i n g  faults,\224 Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine IEEE vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 30- 50, 2004   K. A  L opa r o   M  L Adam s, W. Lin et al 223Fault detection and diagnosis of rotating machinery,\224 Industrial Electronics, IEEE Transactions on vol. 47 no. 5, pp. 1005-1014, 2000   D. B r o w n G Geo r go ulas, B Zha n g et al 223Real-Time Fault Detection and Accommodation for Resolver Position Sensors,\224 in IEEE International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, CO 2008 10  G   Sonn enf e ld, J. Celaya, an d K Go eb el, \223Mod elin g  and Analysis of Aging of IGBTs in Power Drives by Ringing Characterization,\224 accepted for publication in Proceedings of IEEE AUTOTESTCON 2008 1  A Gina rt, M  Roem er, P. Ka lgre n et al 223Modeling and Analysis of Aging of IGBTs in Power Drives by Ringing Characterization,\224 accepted for publication in Proceedings of Intern ational Conference on Prognostics and Health Management 2008 1  K. G o ebel   an d W. Ya n, \223C or rect i n g  Se ns or  D r i f t  a n d  Intermittency Faults with Data Fusion and Automated Learning,\224 IEEE Systems vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 189-197 2008 13  T. H a m a d a and Y. Su yam a 223EM F dr if t and inhomogeneity of type K thermocouples,\224 in SICE 2004 Annual Conference, Sapporo, Japan, 2004, pp 989- 992 1  S.-J Ki m and C W Lee, \223 Di a g n o s i s of S e ns or Fa ul t s  in Active Magnetic Bearing System Equipped with Built-In Force Transducers,\224 IEEE Transactions on Mechatronics vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 180 - 186, 1999 1  S. Li a n d P A M a t a ga, \223 D y n am i c crack p r opa gat i o n i n  piezoelectric materials - Pa rt II. Vacuum solution,\224 Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids vol. 44 no. 11, pp. 1831-1866, 1996 1  D. C. Zim m e rm an, and T L. Ly de, \223Se n sor Failu re  Detection and Isolation in Flexible Structires Using the Eigensystem Realization Algorithm,\224 in 33rd Structural Dynamics and Materials Conf erence, Dallas, TX, 1992 pp. 2156-2166 1  R  O. D uda P E. Hart  a nd D. G. St o rk  Pattern Classification Second ed., p.^pp. 654, New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2000 18  M Rie d mil l e r  a n d  H Br au n 223A  D i r e ct A d ap tiv e Method for Faster Backpropagation Learning: The RPROP Algorithm,\224 in IEEE International Conference on Neural Networks, San Fransisco, CA, 1993  B IOGRAPHIES  Edward Balaban is a researcher in the Diagnosis and System Health group at NASA Ames Research Center.  His main areas of interest are diagnostics and prognostics of physical systems.  He is currently the lead for actuator prognostics with the Diagnostics & Prognostics Group in the Intelligent Systems Division. During his years at Ames he participated in research and development of diagnostic and other autonomy elements for the X-34 experimental reusable launch vehicle, International Space Station robotic astronaut assistants, autonomous planetary drills and the future generation of au tonomous micro-spacecraft He received the Bachelor degr ee in Computer Science from The George Washington University in 1996 and the Master degree in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University in 1997 Abhinav Saxena is a Staff Scientist with Research Institute for Advanced Computer Science at the Prognostics Center of Excellence, NASA Ames Research Center. His research focus lies in developing prognostic algorithms for engineering systems. He is a PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta. He earned his B.Tech in 2001 from Indian Institute of Technology \(IIT\ Delhi, and Masters Degree in 2003 from Georgia Tech. Abhinav has been a GM manufacturing scholar and also a member of Eta Kappa Nu and Gamma Beta Phi engineering honor societies along with IEEE and ASME 


  13 Prasun Bansal is an intern with Mission Critical Technologies at the Prognostics Center of Excellence NASA Ames Research Center. His research focus lies in design & development of engineering systems and Multi Disciplinary Optimization. He earned Masters Degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University in 2008 and his B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology \(IIT\ Delhi in 2006 Kai Goebel received the degree of Diplom-Ingenieur from the Technische Universit\344t M\374nchen, Germany in 1990. He received the M.S. and Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley in 1993 and 1996, respectively. Dr Goebel is a senior scientist at NASA Ames Research Center where he leads the Diagnostics & Prognostics groups in the Intelligent Systems division. In addition, he directs the Prognostics Center of Excellence and he is the Associate Principal Investigator for Prognostics for NASA\222s Integrated Vehicle Health Management Program.  He worked at General Electric\222s Corporate Research Center in Niskayuna, NY from 1997 to 2006 as a senior research scientist. He has carried out applied research in the areas of artificial intelligence, soft computing, and information fusion. His research interest lies in advancing these techniques for real time monitoring, diagnostics, and prognostics. He holds ten patents and has published more than 100 papers in the area of systems health management Paul Stoelting received his B.S. and M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the Rochester Institute of Technology in 1999.  Paul\222s research focused on non-linear control theory.  Currently he is pursuing a M.S. degree in Computer Science from the University at Buffalo and is researching wireless sensor-actuator networks.  Paul is the Aerospace Software Engineering Manager at Moog Inc. responsible for the design, integration and deployment of embedded flight control actuation software for both Aircraft and Space vehicles.  He has worked at Moog since 1996 on V-22 Comanche, Bombardier Challenger 300, X-35, F-35 and was a Staff Systems Engineer prior to moving into Software Management. He has conducted applied research on real time monitoring and prognostics for flight control actuators His current interests are actuator network and wireless network applications for control and prognostics  Simon Curran received his B.S.E.C E. \(2005\ and his M.S.E.C.E. \(2007\ from The Ohio State University.  Simon\222s research focused on intelligent control and humanoid locomotion.  While at Ohio State he served as an assistant lecturer for The Fundamentals of Engineering for Honors program \(FEH\.  Presently Simon works with the Aircraft System\222s group at Moog Inc. and spends his free time as a private pilot.  His current interests are neural network applications for machine anomaly detection and network fusion 


217 47] R. C. Mayer, J. D. Davis, and F. D. Schoorman An Integrative Model of Organisational Trust," Academy of Management Review vol. 20, pp. 709 ? 734, 1995 48] J. K. Lieberman, The Litigious Society. New York Basic Books, 1981 49] P. J. Ambrose and G. L. Johnson, "A Trust Model of Buying Behavior in Electronic Retailing," presented at The Association for Information Systems, Baltimore, MD 1998 50] D. Gefen, "E-Commerce: The role of familiarity and trust. ," The International Journal of Management Science, vol. 28, pp. 725?737, 2000 51] N. K. Malhotra, S. S. Kim, and J. Agarwal Internet Users' Information Privacy Concerns \(IUIPC Construct, the Scale, and a Causal Model," Information Systems Research vol. 15, pp. 336-355, 2004 52] D. H. McKnight and N. L. Chervany, "What Trust Means in E-Commerce Customer Relationships: An Interdisciplinary Conceptual Typology.," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 6, pp. 35-59, 2001 53] D. H. McKnight, L. L. Cummings, and N. L Chervany, "Initial Trust Formation in New Organisational Relationships," Academy of Management Review, vol. 23 pp. 473-490, 1998 54] D. Gershaw, "Line on Life: AIDS and Teenagers vol. 2008. Retrieved from http://virgil.azwestern.edu/~dag/lol/AIDSTeens.html, 1989 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 55] H. Levenson, "Multidimensional Locus of Control in Psychiatric Patients," Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, vol. 41, pp. 397-404, 1973 56] A. Pfitzmann and M. Hansen, "Anonymity Unlinkability, Unobservability, Pseudonymity, and Identity Management ? A Consolidated Proposal for  T e r m i n o l o g y   7  M   A   F r o o m k i n    A n o n y m i t y  and Its Enmities " Journal of Online Law, vol. Article 4 1995 58] "Platform for Privacy Preferences \(P3P Enabling smarter Privacy Tools for the Web," vol. 2006 World Wide Web Consortium, 1994    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


the packets, and one quarter-second later, three packets of size 512 bytes are sent, followed one-quarter second later by one packet of size 256 bytes The accumulated bytes sent with respect to time in seconds are shown in Figure 17 Total Bytes Seconds Figure 17: Accumulated bytes for the example pattern The packets described above have been inserted into a set of network trac packet collected from the author?s laptop over roughly 4 minutes of usage starting at w = 240 seconds. The total accumulated outgoing bytes are illustrated in Figure 18. To apply the basis looking for this specic pattern, we Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 accumulate the bytes on quarter-second intervals and generate a wavelet decomposition for a sliding 4-second window, which is compared to the original pattern?s decomposition with the UPVH. The UPVH for the dierent starting times are shown in Figure 19. Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time Total Bytes Seconds Figure 18: Accumulated outgoing bytes of a sample usage period plus the packets in our pattern UPVH Seconds Figure 19: UPVH values \(less than 50 blocks of data with digerent starting times Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time In fairness, this method of nding patterns has many of the same weaknesses found in other signature-matching approaches. The pattern has to be known ahead of time, which means that this detection scheme would still be vulnerable to rst-time attacks. Also, a completely innocuous data ow occurring with very similiar timing and quantities as our pattern will still cause a low UPVH value, possibly causing a false-positive alert. We do claim 


however, that we have a greater capacity for nding patterns in quantiable amounts that are obscured by standard network trac. Also, we can adjust the sensitivity of the search without changing the signature for which we are searching, by adjusting the threshold of the UPVH?s for which an alert is issued. Thus, statistical techniques and adaptive learning can be used to help develop optimal threshold levels for a particular pattern 4. Conclusion Wavelet analysis holds an as-of-yet untapped potential for analyzing usage patterns in network trac ows, due to their ability to lter out data up to a given approximation order. Neither simple character searches nor Fourier analysis has this capability. Also, while Fourier analysis generally gives only frequency information within an analysis window, wavelet analysis gives some amount of both frequency information and the location of that frequency activity. The additional information comes at no additional computational costs, since the bases are generally applied by convolving matrix lters over the data \(repeated matrix multiplication over sliding blocks of data tiwavelet bases introduced in this document should prove to be particularly useful in pattern-matching applications, due to their short support \(that is, non-zero only over a small interval the inclusion of splines in the approximation spaces instead of just polynomials, and the ability to use them on time series with left and right boundaries The author is currently working with computer scientists at the CyberDefense Lab \(CDL at Western Kentucky University to develop software that will utilize these bases in network security, intrusion-detection, and data-extrusion applications. Once developed, we will study the eectiveness of this type of analysis in detecting malicious behavior as compared to the more commonly used techniques, with the hope of improving detection capabilities while maintaining a low false-positive rate. The software will initially be tested in the CDL?s sandbox while running attacks from its attack library with various background usage scripts being implemented, but will eventually move to less controlled network environments Acknowledments: This work supported in part by the NACMAST consortium under contract 


EWAGSI-07-SC-0003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References 1] C. K. Chui and Q. T. Jiang, ?Multivariate Balanced Vector-Valued Renable Functions?, in: V. W. Haussmann, K. Jetter, M Reimer, and J. Stockler \(Eds velopment in Multivariate Approximation, vol 145, Birkhauser Verlag, Basel \(2003 102 2] G. Donovan, J. Geronimo, and D. Hardin Intertwining Multiresolution Analyses and the Construction of Piecewise Polynomial Wavelets?, SIAM J. Math. Anal. 27\(6 1996 1791?1815 3] J. Geronimo, D. Hardin, and P. Massopust Fractal Functions and Wavelet Expansions Based on Several Scaling Functions?, J. Approx. Theory 78:3 \(1994 4] D. Hardin and B. Kessler, ?Orthogonal Macroelement Scaling Vectors and Wavelets in 1-D?, Arab. J. Sci. Eng. Sect. C \(Theme Issue: Wavelet and Fractal Methods in Science and Engineering: Part 1 2003 5] D. Hardin and D. Roach, ?Multiwavelet Prelters I: Orthogonal Prelters Preserving Approximation Order s  2?, IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II: Analog Digital Signal Proces 45\(8 1998 6] B. Kessler, ?An Orthogonal Scaling Vector Generating a Space of F1 Cubic Splines Using Macroelements?, J. Concrete Appl. Math Special Issue on Wavelets and Applications 4\(4 2006 7] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?Balanced Multiwavelet Theory and Design?, IEEE Trans. Signal Process. 46\(4 1998 8] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?High Order Balanced Multiwavelets?, in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech, Signal Processing ICASSP May 1998 1532 9] J. Lian, ?Armlets and Balanced Multiwavelets Flipping Filter Construction?, IEEE Trans Signal Process. 53\(5 2005 10] I. W. Selesnick, ?Balanced GHM-like Multiscaling Functions?, IEEE Signal Process. Lett 6\(5 1999 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





