  1 Human Spaceflight Systems Modeling Applied to Lunar Surface Bases: Architecture Comparisons Charles M. Reynerson The Boeing Company Integrated Defense Systems 3800 Lewiston St, Suite 100 Aurora, CO 80011 303-307-3477 charles.m.reynerson@boeing.com  Abstract 227An architectural level model was created to determine the mass, power, and volume of human supported surface base infrastructure at th e architectural concept level of detail 12 037\037It uses cargo mass delivered, crew number and duration as primary inputs, with some key parameters that are dependent on the particular technology used for the vehicle.  As technology has many variations, only a single 
design approach is given using proven and near-term technologies. Supporting data for other technologies and approaches are not included in this paper.  The outputs are mass, power, and volume required for bases on the Moon Surface bases in other locations throughout the solar system have not been formulated If the surface base components are to be integrated with a landing system, this logistical option has been modeled Surface payloads have many options depending on the mission objectives and therefore are considered as inputs to this model.  The modeling approach is to first define the payloads to be supported Crew related payloads are divided into crew systems ECLS, and EVA.  Other payloads that are mission specific are not derived but are inputs to the model.  Parametric design parameters are given throughout in a tabular form 
Many of these parameters have been derived from more detailed designs and are formulated in order to rapidly extrapolate the impact of changing input parameters.  In this paper, the analysis and results of 4 lunar base designs are presented.  The designs are varied based on stay duration and payloads. The first base is designed to have a short duration stay of 14 days while transporting a limited number of surface experiments.  The second variant is designed for a surface stay dur ation of 30 days with an increased number of surface experiments and no resupply capability.  The third design s upports surface stays of up to 180 days with more experiments and a resupply capability from Earth.  The last design assumes permanent presence with crews rotated every year and the incorporation of ISRU technologies T 
ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  B ASIC E LEMENTS FOR S URFACE B ASES 1  3  S URFACE A RCHITECTURE C OMPARISONS 2  4  M ASS E STIMATION 
3  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1609 Version 1, Updated 2008:12:22 5  C OST E STIMATION  4  6  C ONCLUSIONS  5  R EFERENCES  5  B IOGRAPHY  5 
 1  I NTRODUCTION  There are many potential options associated with the design of surface bases on extraterrest rial bodies.    A baseline design can be formed with an imagined base that will satisfy all perceived needs and wants.  But inevitably reality will set in when it is determined that such a base costs too much for one nation to build and support in a reasonable amount of time.    This paper outlines a study that was performed to examine the relative size and cost of several base options In this fashion, when such options are examined and compared, governmental agen cies and commercial entities can get a sense of how much effort and resources may be required when creating a surface base architecture This paper outlines four separate but progressively complex 
architecture designs, estimates their sizes and costs, and then compares them.  Firs t the potential surface base elements are described.  Next representative architectures are chosen based on varying design life, technology, and exploration objectives.  Finally the mass and cost of each option is estimated and compared.  It should be noted at the architectural level of detail, the margins and uncertainty for mass and cost estimation are la rge.  Therefore, it is the relative values between archit ectures that are the most notable findings in this paper 2  B ASIC E LEMENTS FOR S URFACE B ASES   
Surface base designs can vary widely.  But there are common elements and functions that tend to recur in base designs.  The foremost required element is a habitation area or module in which crews live, work, eat and sleep.  Within the habitable areas, crew systems are needed to support a habitable environment which includes command and control, environmental life support, food preparation exercise, cleanliness, and waste disposal/treatment.   A whole array of subsystems are required to support the habitable crew modules including, power, communications consumables storage, airlocks, In-Situ Resource Utilization ISRU\ants, and equipment storage.  Other key elements of a surface base involve the ability to transport crew and 


  2 material to and from the base.  These elements require systems to enable EVA, tr ansport on the surface, and transport to and from the surface.  Depending on the design other equipment may be required to establish the base create paths and roads, lift and transport mass, and maintain the base.  Usually the base will have some sort of purpose other than just to support humans.  Equipment and payloads will be required to support such activities.  Examples of such activities include: surface exploration, mining production, tourism & entertainment, scientific experimentation, optical telescopes This section describes some of the potential element options that will be selected for each progressive architecture.  Not all potential options are examined as they are infinite in scope and number Habitation Areas The core area of the base is where the crew will spend most of their time living and working on the surface.  Although there are many potential options on how one might design this key element, this study will focus mainly on the varying the volume, crew systems, and ECLSS options  Habitation Volumes\227 Although it would be nice to live in an astrodome on the Moon, realities dictate that a large amount of mass would be required to enclose such a structure.  In the near term it is unlikely that such structures will be manufactured indigenously so it is a safe bet that structures will be transported from the Earth. To estimate how much volume is required, it is useful to look at some past spaceflight design expe rience.  Figure 1 shows habitation volume used for various missions plotted against number of crew.  These missions are plotted also by either short \(days\edium \(weeks\ong \(months to years durations.    Using such trends, a reasonable amount of volume can be estimated for each crew member based on the planned duration of the mission In this paper, the important aspects of crew interactions and psychological needs are not addr essed at the architectural level.    Such factors should certainly be examined in later phases of the design.  It should be pointed out that as the size of the base increases over time, this will effectively increase the habitable volume and allow the crew members more chance of privacy if desired Environmental Control and Life Support Systems\227 To support humans in space, an environment needs to be created that will reproduce th e conditions we are familiar with on Earth.  The Environmental Control and Life Support Systems \(ECLSS\de for this function by regulating the atmosphere within the crew spaces and by providing clean water and food.   Subsystems will be designed to remove CO2 & contaminants, provide oxygen and nitrogen, and manage the use of water. There are several potential technology op tions associated with each function.  The technologies selected usually depend upon the duration of the mission.  For short duration missions it is not necessary to recycle consumables as it is for long duration missions.  For the longest duration missions, loop closure for air and water are at the highest levels, but a limited amount of consumable resupply can be assumed Crew Systems\227 Apart from the ECLSS, all other systems that are used to support the crew are classified as \223Crew Systems\224.    These systems support the crew\222s basic needs such as health, nourishment, hygiene, waste collection, and general operation & maintenance for the base Support Infrastructure In space vehicle design, the sum of the ECLSS and the Crew Systems could be viewed as the effective payload from which the spacecraft bus would need to support Typical spacecraft bus subsyste ms are needed to provide power, communications, data handling, command control, and structural support.  But other support systems are needed that are specific to surface base functions such as EVA and airlocks, surface vehicles, regolith moving equipment, lifting equipment,  maintenance storage areas and ISRU plants Mission Payloads There are a myriad number of potential mission payloads that may be designed for use on the base for exploration and scientific purposes.  As such equipment has yet to be defined for inclusion for lunar bases, a simple mass and power allocation is made at this early stage of the design Such an array of instruments could include seismic sensors mobile robotic platforms, hand tools, or telescopes  3  S URFACE A RCHITECTURE C OMPARISONS  Four surface architectures were formulated that varied duration and mission complexity.  Each mission supports 3 crew members and a certain amount of mission payloads The number of crew members was not varied but the amount of payload was increased for longer duration missions. For each architecture the mass, volume, power and relative cost is estimated Also, each architecture has a slight variance in the size, duration, technologies, and exploration objectives.  Such variances in requirements can be evaluated to show their impact on overall system size and cost.  The requirements for each of the four architectures are described be low and summarized in Table 1 Architecture 1 \226 Basic Short Duration This architecture is created for a short duration mission lasting 14 days.  There is a single lander that also acts as the habitation area and ascent vehicle.  This surface transportation is low mass with limited range.  There are a small number of surface experi ments that weigh 200 kg The power subsystem is fully integrated into the lander Consumables are all brought from Earth 


  3 3\nfrastructure Combined hab/lander/ascent vehicle Low mass, limited range, surface vehicle Small number of surface experiments \(200 kg Self-contained power and consumables \(no ISRU  Architecture 2 \226 Multi-Vehicle Medium Duration This architecture uses a habitation module that is separate from the landing and ascent vehicle.  The mission duration is for 30 days on the surface.  It has a pressurized surface vehicle with limited range and ECLS capability.  There are more surface experiments a nd probes totaling 300 kg Again, no resupply missions are planned and all consumables are brought from Earth.  Water is used to produce oxygen and hydrogen through electrolysis Habitation Module Separate from Landing/Ascent Vehicle Duration: 30 days Pressurized surface vehicle with limited ECLS Significant number of su rface experiments & probes 300 kg No resupply missions 037 Self contained consumables 037 Electrolysis to generate oxygen & hydrogen  Architecture 3 \226 Long Duration with Resupply This architecture also uses a habitation module that is separate from the landing and ascent vehicle.  The mission duration is extended to 180 days on the surface.  It has a pressurized surface vehicle w ith extended range and ECLS capability. There are more surface experiments and probes totaling 400 kg.  The surface e xperiments have their own command and control systems operable from Earth users Limited testing of ISRU devices are conducted.  There are periodic consumables resupply missions from the Earth The surface base also has a dedicated landing and ascent area with transport to and from the base Habitation Module Separate from Landing/Ascent Vehicle Duration: 180 days Pressurized surface vehicle with extended range; ECLS Large number of surface experiments & probes \(400 kg 037 Dedicated command & control from Earth users Testing of ISRU Periodic resupply missions from Earth 037 Dedicated landing/ascent area  Architecture 4 \226 Permanent Presence with ISRU This architecture also uses a habitation module that is separate from the landing and ascent vehicle.  The mission duration is extended to one year on the surface.  Crews are rotated periodically. It has multiple pressurized surface vehicles with extended range and ECLS capability.  There is also dedicated construction equipment for moving regolith and creating paths and roads.  There are more surface experiments and probes totaling 500 kg.   Testing and use of ISRU devices is continued to reduce the need for resupply missions.  Multiple bases are established with frequent transport being conducted between them.  Testing is conducted on the use of indigenous materials and welding technology for constructing new habitat areas Habitation Modules Separate from Landing/Ascent Vehicle Duration: 365 days Crew Rotation System Multiple \(2 construction impediments Very large number of surf ace experiments & probes \(500 kg Continued testing of ISRU with periodic resupply missions Multiple bases with frequent transport between bases Testing the use of buildings constructed from indigenous materials and welding technology \(use of material plants  4  M ASS E STIMATION  Mass Model & Methodology The mass model employed in this study is most appropriate for use at the architectural and concept phases.  It employs a combined approach using parametric data from historical human spaceflight systems as we ll as design data on select subsystems of interest.   Basic inputs include crew number mission duration, and payload mass, size and power.   An engineering model was formulated based partially on parametric data from historical systems and partially from estimation methods for yet to be designed systems.  This model outputs mass, volume, and power required to support the crew and payloads.  A ROM cost model then uses information from the mass estimate in order to generate an estimate for economic parameters.   The key economic parameters estimated are for acquisition, delivery, and base support over time.  Figure 2 shows the flow for the models used in this study.  Details of some of the modeling techniques can be found in Reference 2.  Even though the basic modeling techniques were used from Reference 2, it was adapted to the problem of lunar surface base design by changing the key design parameters appropriately  Mass Breakdowns by Architecture Using the requirements outlined for each architecture, the mass can be determined using the modeling flow described above.  The mass model is subdivided into four categories crew systems, ECLSS, payloads, and support systems Power requirements are also es timated as they are needed for sizing the power subsystem 


  4 Crew Systems 227 There are a multitude of items that can be considered as crew systems These items are mostly those required to support the crew but are not part of the ECLS subsystem.  Crew systems considered in this study include the following functions: cooking & food, waste collection personal hygiene, clothing, recreational equipment, personal stowage, operational supplies, housekeeping, maintenance photography, sleep, and health care.  A summary by architecture for crew systems mass and volume is shown below in Table 2.  Variable mass and volume refers to consumables required for the designated architecture time duration.  Fixed mass and volume refers to other equipment that is not considered as being a consumable Environmental Control and Life Support \(ECLS 227 The ECLS system controls the temperature, humidity, and the atmosphere within habitable areas to support life Breathable oxygen is provided with a mixture of nitrogen Contaminants from outgassing equipment and naturally occurring  human exhaled and expulsed gases are cleansed from the atmosphere.  Water for drinking and cleansing is provided and recycled.  There are a multitude of technologies that have been designed for these purposes For this study, 10 ECLS strategies were formulated based upon required duration and various technologies.  For mass volume, power, and consumables usage, the mean values of select strategies were used.  Specific subsystem functions considered include:  CO 2 removal, oxygen generation, trace contaminant removal, atmospheric makeup, water management, and waste management.  A summary by architecture for ECLSS mass, volume, and power is shown below in Table 3 Payloads For the purposes of this study, the payload is defined as including EVA equipment, su rface vehicles, scientific instruments, and ISRU plants.  EVA equipment includes suits, tools, workaids, and an airlock.  Surface vehicles can be either pressurized or unpressurized. Scientific instruments are those used during the exploration of the Moon.  Such instruments are not yet well defined and notional mass and power has been allocated for each architecture. ISRU equipment is used to generate consumable resources from indigenous materials.  Such equipment would be used to generate oxygen, and perhaps even water depending on the base location.  Water and oxygen generated indigenously can be used by the crew in lieu of transport of such consumables from the Earth Water can also be electrolyzed to obtain hydrogen and more oxygen.  So it is conceivable that such resources could be also used for creating rocket propellants for return missions For the purposes of this study only oxygen is created from the regolith.  A summary by architecture for payload mass and volume is shown below in Table 4 Bus and Support Systems There are many subsystems w ithin what is considered a spacecraft bus.  This term is used within this study to refer to all other systems that are devised to support the payloads Such subsystems include power, thermal, structural computers for data, telemetry, and command, and base control stations.  Parametric estimates of bus mass and power are performed using historical data and power requirements from the payloads, ECLS system, and crew systems.  Photovoltaic power generation is assumed for the power subsystem.  Standard st ructural systems are assumed that do not include the use of inflatable materials.  A summary by architecture for bus and support power and mass is shown below in Tables 6 and 7 respectively Total Mass Estimate For each architecture, the mass of the 4 categories described above are summed and displayed below in Figure 3.  This is the effective mass of the base components that need to be delivered to the lunar surface 5  C OST E STIMATION  ROM Cost Methodology This quick study at the archit ecture level employs the use of Rough Order of Magnitude \(ROM\ing methods that use specific costs based on system mass.  It also computes the cost of establishing the base but not sustaining it over a certain period of time.  For this study, the cost magnitude is not as important as the relativ e cost between architectures Therefore, rough metrics are chosen and used consistently for each architecture evaluation Key Metrics The metrics used for determining cost are shown in Table 8 below.  The acquisition costs is the cost required for the acquisition of space vehicles and systems \(not including transport systems\ This ROM cost figure is based upon a statistical average for manne d space systems procured by the US government.  As this number is relatively high, it is wise to minimize the mass of space systems as much as possible to reduce overall acquisition cost For the cost of delivery, thr ee segments are delineated.  The first is launch from Earth to Low Earth Orbit \(LEO\ The second is delivery from LEO to Low Lunar Orbit \(LLO The third segment is delivery from LLO to the lunar surface.  There is little statis tical data available for the second and third segments so historical data from the Apollo program is assumed.  The sum of the three segments is defined as the total delivery cost   


  5 Acquisition Cost The results from the ROM cost model for system acquisition is shown below in Figure 4.   The shape of this curve is very similar to that for Figure 3 as the model is based upon mass inputs Delivery Cost The cost for the delivery of th e base from the Earth to the lunar surface by architecture is shown below in Figure 5 Again, this curve is similar to that shown in Figure 3 as the delivery cost is a function of the mass delivered Total Cost Summary The total cost to acquire a nd deliver the surface base is shown below in Figure 6.  This figure superimposes both the acquisition cost \(in blue\he delivery cost \(in red on the same graph to estimate a total cost.   Architecture 2 would cost only 50% more than implementing architecture 1.  Architecture 3 would cost 360% more and architecture 4 would be nearly 600% more than architecture 1 6  C ONCLUSIONS  This study has examined four potential lunar base architectures using mass and ROM cost estimation methods Each option had progressively increased requirements it terms of stay duration and exploration objectives \(as reflected in the payload mass\etermining the relative cost between architecture options, it is hoped that current and future planners may attain a better feel for the tradeoff between system requirements and cost.  If budgets get tight in the future, a trade in requi rements can be made to reduce the cost.   It is possible to use such modeling techniques to show the sensitivity of particular requirements on the overall cost of the system R EFERENCES    P. Eckart, \223The Lunar Base Handbook\224, McGraw Hill 1999    C  R e y n erson 223C oncept Desi gn Theory and M odel for Multi-use Space Facilities: Analysis of Key System Design Parameters Through Variance of Mission Requirements\224, George Washington University PhD Dissertation in the field of Astronautics, 1997   P Eckart, \223Spaceflight Life Support and Biospherics\224, Microcosm Press, 1996   W  J. Larson, L. K. Pranke 223Hum an Spaceflight Mission Analysis and Design\224, McGraw Hill, 2000  R. W  Hum b le, G. N. Henry, W  J. Larson, \223Space Propulsion Analysis and Desi gn\224, McGraw Hill, 1995   M Fogi el 223Handbook of M a t h em at i cal Sci e nt i f i c and Engineering Formulas, Tables, Functions, Graphs Transforms\224, 2001   S. Schrunk, B Sharpe, B C ooper, M Thangavel u 223The Moon, Resources, Future Deve lopment, and Settlement\224 2 nd Edition, Praxis Publishing Ltd, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Charles Reynerson is an Associate Technical Fellow for the Boeing Company.  He has conducted complex modeling and simulations for NASA\222s Exploration Systems architecture that include both transportation and surface systems.  He has investigated reusability of systems and potential commonality of systems for use on the Moon Mars and beyond. He has also developed methods for the design of human spaceflight systems to support the NASA Vision for Space Exploration including surface bases ascent/descent vehicles, transports rovers, and ISRU plants. He has performed Mars Entry Descent and Landing Analysis for future NASA missions. This included analysis involving traject ory and attitude control requirements determination He has developed designs and performed trade studies for the processing of lunar soil and water-ice for commercial propellants on the Moon.  He has most recently led a Space Vehicle Analysis team that was in charge of validating the pr oper operation of spacecraft simulation software that runs in conjunction with ground system software. He has developed models for GNC Thermal, Power, and Communication Subsystems for test verification phases.  Dr. Reyne rson received his Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the George Washington University, Engineers \(EAA\ degree \(between MS and D.Sc.\ in Aeronautics and Astronautics from MIT Engineers \(NE\ degree in Naval Engineering from MIT, and BS  from U.C. Berkley.  He has extensive experience in the development of space systems w ith NASA where he was the Assistant Deputy for Space Shuttle Integration and National Reconnaissance Office \(NRO\ Liaison for Space Technology Programs and was a Project Manager and Contracting Officer\222s Technical Representative at the National Reconnaissance Office.  He is an ex-Naval Engineering Duty Officer also qualified in submarines.  Dr Reynerson is member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \(AIAA\, American Astronautical Society \(AAS\, the Mars Society, the Experimental Aviation Associ ation \(EAA\ and Tau Beta Pi National Engineering Honor Society\.  Dr. Reynerson is also a licensed private pilot  


  6   Figure 1. Habitable Volume by Mi ssion Duration & Crew Number  Table 1. Surface Base Architecture Comparison Characteristic Architecture 1 Architecture 2 Architecture 3 Architecture 4 Habitation Module Separate No Yes Yes Yes Duration, days 14 30 180 365 Crew Rotations No No No Yes Surface Vehicle Not Pressurized Low Range Pressurized Low Range Pressurized Extended Range Multiple Pressurized Extended Range Surface Experiment Mass, kg 200 300 400 500 Resupply Missions No No Yes Yes ISRU Capability No No Testing Limited Multiple Base Locations No No No Yes Construction Capability No No No Testing Habitation Specific Volume vs. Crew Number y = -0.5656x + 68.519 R 2 0.0014 y = -1.1577x + 17.608 R 2 0.3757 y = 0.2117x + 1.1344 R 2 0.2461 0.00 20.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 100.00 120.00 02468 Crew Number Volu me, cu m Medium Duration Long Duration Short Duration Long Duration Trend Med Duration Trend Short Duration Trend 


  7   Figure 2.  Modeling Flow for Hu man Spaceflight Systems Design   Table 2. Crew Systems Mass and Volume Summary Arch Case Mass Fixed Mass, kg Variable Mass, kg Total Mass, kg Fixed Volume m 3  Variable Volume m 3  Total Volume m 3  1 706 424 1130 4.63 2.20 6.83 2 1499 1089 2588 8.61 5.03 13.64 3 2891 1886 4777 15.88 9.43 25.31 4 4736 3608 8344 26.00 18.08 44.08   Table 3. ECLS Mass, Volume, and Power Summary Arch Case Consum Mass, kg Consum Volume m 3  Fixed Mass, kg Fixed Volume m 3  Total Mass, kg Total Volume m 3  Power kW 1 587 1.99 45.38 0.04 633 2.03 0.009 2 288 2.12 698.20 2.95 986 5.07 2.213 3 1727 12.70 825.58 2.95 2552 15.64 2.213 4 3502 25.74 982.68 2.95 4484 28.69 2.213  Table 4. Payload Mass, kg Arch Case EVA Surf Vehicles Science ISRU Total Mass, kg 1 1224 209 200 0 1633 2 1608 209 300 0 2117 3 5208 6075 400 500 12183 4 9648 12150 500 500 22798    


  8 Table 5. Payload Volume, m 3  Arch Case EVA Surf Vehicles Science ISRU Total Volume m 3  1 6 6.36 0.67 0 13.03 2 6.42 6.36 1 0 13.78 3 10 34.36 1.33 1.67 47.36 4 14.46 68.72 1.67 1.67 86.51  Table 6. Power Requirements, kW Arch Case Science Payload Power ISRU Plant Power Crew Systems Power Bus Power Total Power kW 1 0.1 0 8.7 2.64 11.44 2 0.15 0 8.7 2.655 11.505 3 0.2 1.47 8.7 3.111 13.481 4 0.25 1.47 8.7 3.126 13.546  Table 7. Bus and Support Mass Arch Case Bus Mass Power Plant Mass Total Mass, kg 1 977 3432 4409 2 2856 3452 6308 3 4832 4044 8876 4 7434 4064 11498   Surface Base Mass 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 40000 45000 50000 1234 Architecture Mass, kg  Figure 3.  Surface Bass Mass Estimate by Architecture 


  9  Table 8. Specific Cost Metrics Specific Cost metric Value, $/kg Acquisition 100000 Launch to LEO 22000 LEO to LLO 2420 Lunar Orbit to Surface 1240 Total Delivery 25660   Surface Base Cost 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 5000 1234 Architecture Cost, $M  Figure 4. Surface Base Acquisition Cost by Architecture  Surface Base Delivery Cost 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1234 Architecture Cost, $M  Figure 5. Surface Base Deliv ery Cost by Architecture    


  10     Figure 6. Surface Base Total Cost Summary   


data and process standards positively affects process costs, has been corroborated. The path coefficient for this relationship is highly significant \(p &lt;= 0.001  H3: The forecasted positive impact of a combined standard force on the quality determinant of the recruiting process has been corroborated for this sample with p &lt;= 0.001  5.1 Implications for theory  In this paper we developed a theoretical research model around the combined effect of process and data standards on business process performance in staff recruitment. Such a model has not yet been offered in human resources information systems \(HRIS research In addition, this paper provides empirical substantiation and validation of the developed hypothesis using data from a survey sent to Fortune-1,000 companies in Germany. The results show that a sensible combination of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive impact on the outcomes of the entire recruiting process. These outcomes are measured as time-to-hire costs-per-hire as well as the process quality for applicants \(customer satisfaction quality of hired candidates With these two main contributions, the paper fills a gap in existing literature and can serve as starting point for promising future research Our results were not fully able to answer how exactly both standard types should be combined to provide the positive impact. As indicated in section 2.3 we assume that neither process nor data standards are an end in themselves. Quite a high number of cases show that the introduction of process standards is more successful if accompanied by a simultaneous introduction of data standards. Some cases show that data standards tend to fail if not embedded in a process standardization context. We leave a further discussion of the operative interplay of process and data standards for further research \(compare section 5.4 In their case study research about the use of process standards in staff recruitment, von Stetten et al. [31 showed that the observed company implemented a uniform data standard and then process standards on how to recruit an employee. In this case the company was able to cut their costs by a third and reduced their timeto-hire by around 20 days from 90 to 70  5.2 Managerial implications  The most important finding of this research is that the combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process \(measured in time-to-hire, costs-per-hire and the process quality for applicant and company These empirical findings confirm the results of case study research by von Stetten et al. [31] who examined the positive influence of standardization in staff recruitment. Managers in HR and IT could benefit from this approach and enhance their efforts to standardize the corporate recruitment process. An important precondition seems to be a prior implementation of a uniform data standard before starting to standardize the process von Stetten et al. [31]. Examples of process standards could be related to the specific recruiter tasks, the channels they use to find and attract a specific applicant as well as the ways they communicate with their candidates. Several companies use standard chanProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 nels to attract candidates, such as their corporate website or an Internet job portal such as Monster.com [18 How candidates apply and companies communicate with their candidates is also becoming increasingly standardized in current staff recruitment as the candidates frequently use standardized web forms to apply and the companies use email for communication [19 Finally a rising degree of standardization in staff recruitment will lead to a new definition of recruiters tasks as one recruiter will not be responsible for performing the entire process from candidate attraction to final selection  Table 7: Overview of managerial implications Implications Combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process Authors,[31 A uniform data standard \(for applicant relevant information standardization \([31 Standardized channels to first attract applicants and then communicate with them ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors,[18],[19 Increasing specialization and modularization of a single recruiter's activities ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors  5.3 Limitations  As with any work in a new field of research, relevant literature to build on is almost nonexistent. Following Wuellenweber et al. [37] "in standardization research determining the value of a standard has remained an open issue for decades. Looking at process standards, things seem to be even worse." Unfortunately the operationalization of "process standard" used in this paper could thus not build too much on earlier work in standardization research. As a result we focused the operationalization of prior findings of HR research As with any empirical research paper, this work has some associated limitations. We have only discussed one process to examine the combined impact of process and data standards, so the significant results might show a single example for the recruitment process. We assume there might be differences for different processes. Future research should discuss this aspect in more detail Furthermore, our survey was limited to major enterprises in Germany. Therefore our results may not be directly transferred to any other country or region In addition, our results could be affected by common method variance because we collected the data from participants at the same time using the same questionnaire [24  5.4 Further research  In this paper, we have shown that combined process and data standards have a positive impact on business process performance in terms of the individual measuring dimensions of business process time, cost and quality for our overall data sample of major German enterprises. We assume that interesting future results might be provided by looking at specific industry \(sub tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g 


tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g large-scale vs. SME Building on the proposal of the "business process standardization" construct by Muenstermann and Weitzel [22], future research should try to further improve the operationalization of "process standards In this paper we measured business process performance using the three business process measurement dimensions of business process time, cost and quality It might be interesting to complement these by adding softer" dimensions, such as business process flexibility, agility or robustness This paper offers an initial understanding of the interplay between process and data standards. Moreover in our further research, we will investigate the individual and separate influence of process and data standards on process performance. Is the influence of process standardization higher than that of data standardization? Do they conflict with each other In addition we will complete two more case studies and send out a new questionnaire to Germany?s Fortune 1,000 companies that will then allow us to analyze the influence of both process and data standardization on each of the business process performance measurement dimensions \(time, cost and quality In addition, we also aim to investigate whether most firms started their standardization effort \(process and data ture \(or even thereafter pendently of major IT changes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 6. References  1] Bagozzi, R. P. and Yi, Y. \(1988 structural equation models. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 16\(1 2] Breaugh, J. A. and Starke, M. \(2000 ployee recruitment: So many studies, so many remaining questions. Journal of Management, 26\(3 3] Brislin, R. W. \(1970 research. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 1\(3 216 4] Chin, W. W. \(1998 structural equation modeling. In Marcoulides, G. A., editor Modern Methods for Business Research, pages 295?336 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ, USA 5] Chin, W. W. \(2000 tial Least Squares &amp; PLS-Graph. Home Page. [On-line Available at: http://disc-nt.cba.uh.edu/chin/plsfaq.htm 6] Chin, W. W. and Todd, P. A. \(1995 ness, and ease of use of structural equation modeling in MIS research: a note of caution. MIS Quarterly, 19\(2 7] Davenport, T. H. and Short, J. E. \(1990 trial engineering: information technology and business process redesign. Sloan Management Review, 31\(4 8] de Vries, H. \(2006 zation. International Journal of IT Standards and Standardization Research, 4\(1 9] Eckhardt, A., Laumer, S., Koenig, W., and Weitzel, T 2008 tration, esp. Information Management, University of Frankfurt 10] Faerber, F., Keim, T., and Weitzel, T. \(2003 mated recommendation approach to personnel selection. In Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems, Tampa 11] Ferstl, O. K. and Sinz, E. J. \(1997 ness systems using the semantic object model \(SOM thodological framework, chapter Handbook on architectures of information systems. International handbook on information systems. Springer 


tion systems. Springer 12] Fomin, V. and Lyytinen, K. \(2000 cake before cutting it into pieces: Alice in Wonderland or radio engineers' gang in the Nordic countries? IGI Publishing, Hershey, PA, USA 13] Fornell, C. and Larcker, D. F. \(1981 tural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement errors. Journal of Marketing Research, 18\(1 50 14] Frank, F. D., Finnegan, R. P., and Taylor, C. R. \(2004 The race for talent: retaining and engaging workers in the 21st century. Human Resource Planning, 27\(3 15] Gefen, D., Straub, D. W., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2000 Structural equation modeling and regression: Guidelines for research practice. Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 4\(7 16] Herwig, V. \(2006 an service-oriented architecture. In Proc. IEEE Services Computing Workshops SCW '06, pages 156?164 17] ISO, T. \(1996 related activities ? General vocabulary". International Organisation for Standardization / International Electrotechnical Commission, Geneva, 7th edition 18] Keim, T. and Weitzel, T. \(2006 professionals: An empirical analysis of employer and job seeker behavior on the IT labor market. Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 19] Laumer, S., Eckhardt, A., and Trunk, N. \(2008 your parents say? ? analyzing it adoption influencing factors for full and under age applicants. forthcoming in Information Systems Frontiers 20] Luftman, J., Kempaiah, R., and Nash, E. \(2006 issues for it executives 2005. MIS Quarterly Executive 5\(2 21] Mooney, J. G., Gurbaxani, V., and Kraemer, K. L 1996 ness value of information technology. SIGMIS Database 27\(2 22] Muenstermann, B. and Weitzel, T. \(2008 process standards? Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Information Resources Management \(ConfIRM 2008 23] National Institute of Standards and Technology \(1996 Electronic data interchange \(EDI Information Processing Standards Publications 24] Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., Lee, J. Y., and Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003 research: A critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88:879?903 25] Porter, M. E. \(1985 niques for analyzing industries and competitors. Free Press New York 26] Ramakumar, A. and Cooper, B. \(2004 dization proves profitable. Quality, 43\(2 27] Riemenschneider, C. K., Moore, J. E., and Armstrong D. \(2008 Renewed Demand for IT Workers, European Journal of Information Systems \(EJIS 28] Ross, J. W. \(2003 competency: learning in stages. MIS Quarterly Executive 2\(1 29] Rossi, B., Russo, B., and Succi, G. \(2008 about the diffusion of data standards inside European public organizations. 3rd International Conference on Information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 and Communication Technologies: From Theory to Applications, 2008. ICTTA 2008, 1?6 30] S  nchez-Rodr  guez, C., Hemsworth, D., Mart  nezLorente, n. R., and Clavel, J. G. \(2006 on the impact of standardization of materials and purchasing procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply 


procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 11\(1 31] Stetten, A. v., Muenstermann, B., Eckhardt, A., and Laumer, S. \(2008 value of business process standardization - a case study approach. Proceedings of the 14th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2008 32] Straub, D., Gefen, D., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2004 ISWorld quantitative, positivist research methods website On-line]. Available at: http://dstraub.cis.gsu.edu:88/quant 33] Ungan, M. C. \(2006 documentation. Business Process Management Journal 12\(2 34] Venkatesh, V. \(2006 on future directions for research on individual-level technology adoption with a focus on decision making. Decision Sciences, 37\(22 35] Vinzi, V. E., Lauro, C., and Tenenhaus, M. \(2003 Path Modelling. DMS 36] Wigand, R. T., Steinfield, C. W., and Markus, M. L 2005 try structure outcomes: The case of the U.S. home mortgage industry. Journal of Management Information Systems 22\(2 37] Wuellenweber, K., Beimborn, D., Weitzel, T., and Koenig, W. \(2008 business process outsourcing success. Information Systems Frontiers, 10\(2  7. Appendix  Table 8: Cross loadings Proc. Cost Data Stand Proc Stand Proc Qual Stand Inter Proc Time Process Standards \(1 Process Standards \(2 Process Standards \(3 Process Standards \(4 Process Standards \(5 Process Standards \(6 Data Standards \(1 Data Standards \(2 Data Standards \(3 Data Standards \(4 Data Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(1 Combined P&amp;D 0.4504 0.9762 0.6555 0.4436 0.8575 0.5252 Standards \(2 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(3 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(4 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(6 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(7 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(8 Combined P&amp;D 


Standards \(9 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(10 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(11 Business Process Time \(1 Business Process Time \(2 Business Process Time \(3 Business Process Cost 1 Business Process Cost 2 Business Process Cost 3 Business Process Cost 4 Business Process Quality \(1 Business Process Quality \(2 Business Process Quality \(3  Table 9: Indicators Indicator Description Process-Time-1 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and the posting of the job ad Process-Time-2 We have reduced the time between the incoming applications and the transmitted notice of arrival for the respective applicant Process-Time-3 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and its fill Process-Cost-1 We were able to reduce the costs for candidate attraction Process-Cost-2 We were able to reduce the costs for the response management with the recruiting process Process-Cost-3 We were able to reduce the costs for the internal applicant tracking Process-Cost-4 We were able to reduce the costs per tracked application Process-Quality-1 We were able to enhance the overall applicant quality Process-Quality-2 We were able to enhance the quality of applicants' data Process-Quality-3 We were able to enhance the proportion of top candidates Process-Quality-4 Our applicants are very satisfied with our offer of information Process-Stand.-1 We have a well-regulated process cycle for applicant tracking in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-2 We have established an efficient organized process in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-3 We have established highly standardized procedures in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-4 We have documented our actions to a great extent Process-Stand.-5 We have established a fixed procedure for the collaboration between HR and the operating departments Process-Stand.-5 We already work with process standards in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-1 We already use a data standard in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-2 I expect that we will use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-3 We plan to use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-4 A uniform data standard is more important in our company as process standards Data-Stand-5 We use the same data standard as our competitors  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


