  1 Online Visualization of Adaptive Distributed Sensor Webs Ashit Talukder Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-354-1000 Ashit.Talukder@jpl.nasa.gov Anand Panangadan Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-354-3054 Anand.V.Panangadan@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227Sensor webs for environmental monitoring integrate data from a large number of fixed and mobile sensors. The spatial and temporal distribution of these sensors varies with time when the network controllers adapt the operation of the sensors to detected events. The paper describes an approach for online visualization of data from such sensor webs. The visualization approach explicitly 
takes into account the varying resolutions of the sensor data and depicts the movement of mobile sensors. The sensor web visualization utilizes th e Google Earth 3-D virtual globe software and data representation formats. This enables data from sensor webs to be made available on the Internet. Users download this data and control the visualization using their own desktop computer. The paper demonstrates the visualizati on approach on data collected from the New York Harbor Observing and Prediction System. The data includes oceanographic parameters collected using onshore and offshore sensors and from mobile platforms such as unmanned underwater vehicles and passing surface ships 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1 
 I NTRODUCTION 1  2  O CEAN M ONITORING S YSTEM 2  3  C URRENT D ATA D ISSEMINATION M ETHODS 3  4  V ISUALIZATION ON A V IRTUAL G LOBE 3  5 
 R ELATED W ORK 5  6  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK 6  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT 6  R EFERENCES 6  B IOGRAPHY 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  The New York Harbor Observing and Prediction System 
NYHOPS\sensor web system consists of a hydrodynamic ocean circulation model \(the ECOMSED model instantiated with sensor measurements from in-situ stationary sensors [1]. The outputs of the ocean model are 48 hour forecasts of marine conditions such as salinity temperature, water currents and elevations. The model forecasts are useful for predic ting events such as coastal surges, plumes, and the movement of oil spills. The model forecast data is published on a website for access by a variety of end users such as emergency responders and planners, and harbor boat captains. The forecast data is 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5 09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1329, Version 2, Updated December 19, 2008 
therefore processed to detect such events and the relevant end-users are alerted of any critical events using a paging system. The system is maintained by the Stevens Maritime Center of the Stevens Institute of Technology In our earlie we showed how t h e operat i on of the sensors and communication infrastructure in the sensor web could be adapted to both the forecasts from the hydrodynamic model and the physical resources of the sensor web \(such as communication bandwidth at distributed sensor nodes and the available energy at these nodes\We have used the framework of Model Predictive Control \(MPC e m ean s to  p erfo rm  th is ad ap tatio n   We showed how assimilation of measurements from in situ sensors that are controlled by the MPC framework resulted in reduction in the model for ecast error. We also showed how the control framework could also be used to compute 
motion plans for unmanned underwater vehicles \(UUVs\to augment the measurements of static sensors In this paper we describe our system to enable visualization of the system data outputs model forecasts control inputs \(such as paths of UUVs\he Internet using a virtual globe. Currently the model forecast data is provided as a sequence of images on a website. The main disadvantage of this method of visualization is that the user is unable to integrate relevant information from other sources to this display. A virtual globe enables a user to overlay multiple geo-referenced datasets over a 3-D representation of the Earth\222s surface. Thus the user can visualize the NYHOPS data products in the context of the surrounding geographic environmen t and forecasts of other related phenomena in the neighboring regions. For instance 
a ship captain may be interest ed in water current forecasts only along the planned route of th e ship. In addition, virtual globe software enables the natural visualization of time varying phenomenon as an animation The major benefit of our new 3D sensor web visualization technology to the users of the NYHOPS system is the ability to visualize, identify, explore, and use all the features of the hydrodynamics captured by the NYHOPS forecasts sea level, 3D salinity, 3D temperature, 3D currents, waves derivatives like the speed of sound\that would be important to them, and that currently are not available through the preselected resolutions of the model output seen in the NYHOPS website today 


  2 Online visualization requires the transfer of large amounts of data over the Internet. In the case of the NYHOPS system, ECOMSED forecasts are provided at one hour intervals over a high resolution 3-D grid of the coastal and inland waters. We describe the implementation details that make it possible to transfer only relevant portions of the data set to the user at any one time. This reduces the latency of the visualization syst em and also reduces the computational requirements of the user\222s computer 2  O CEAN M ONITORING S YSTEM  NYHOPS is a real-time, web-based estuarine and coastal ocean observing and modeling syst em for the waters of NY NJ and CT currently operated as one of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra tion\222s \(NOAA Ocean Observing System \(IOOS  system  The NYHOPS website located at http://hudson.dl.stevens-tech.edu/maritimeforecast serves as the central  disseminati on point for all NYHOPS sensor web data. Current NYHOPS customers range from oceanographers, scientists, th e maritime community, and the emergency management community including the coastguard. The measurements from the sensors are provided to a predictive model of the environment, the ECOMSED m  ECOM SED is a shallow water derivative of the Princeton O cean Model \(POM  inputs to the model are ocean elevation \(which depends on tides, offshore weather, cro ss-shelf elevation change salinity and temperature at both the open boundary and within the domain of the model, and weather \(air temperature, humidity, pressure, wind speed, solar radiation, cloud cover\odel outputs are elevation salinity, temperature, and wate r velocity. The forecasts are presently forced from NOAA/National Weather Service NWS\ National Centers for Environmental Prediction NCEP\eather Research and Forecast WRF\ atmospheric model, USGS river flow gauges and NOAA Meteorological De velopment Laboratory\222s MDL\ su rge forecasts. Open boundary forcing is supplied by the WW3 model at 15min resolution The model predictions are calculated over a high resolution orthogonal but curvilinear threedimensional grid of the entire Hudson-Raritan Estuary, LI Sound, and the NJ and LI coastal ocean \(Figure 1\ulations are performed and archived on the Stevens Hydrodynamic Computational Laboratory\222s high-performance computer cluster. The system is designed to automatically acquire all inputs and run every morning at 0600z Data communication from the sensors In the NYHOPS system, sensors that are deployed along the coast or in the NY/NJ harbor have to transmit their measurements to a central data acquisition/control computer. The distant location of the sensors with respect to this central computer requires that remote dataloggers act as an intermediate relay station. A datalogger \(which is a PC compresses data files, establishes a connection to the Internet via a local ISP, and pushes the data to the data acquisition server. The data transmission to the remote datalogger is through a line-of-sight serial radio modem system. A sensor can establish a 1200 baud, two-way simplex communication link with any of the remote dataloggers. Mobile sensors u tilize serial cellular modems for data transmission to the remote logger. The throughput of the system is limited by the slow data transfer rate and the amount of airtime availabl e to transfer data from each sensor. Currently, the data collection schedule is adjusted based on the power source and sampling requirements of the platform. Sites that are on the power grid can collect and transmit data at a high frequency. Typical sampling schedules consist of the measurement of up to 20 parameters that are retrieved every 5 minutes. Sensors that do not have access to the power grid measure an average of 10 parameters every 15 minutes and data is retrieved once every hour In our framework for adapting the operation of the NYHOPS sensing entities, these communication and energy constraints are taken into account along with regions of interest calculated from ECOMSED model forecasts. Our online visualization depicts the locations of the static sensors and the dataloggers. In our adaptive control framework, measurements from the in situ sensors are assimilated into the model for ecasts. The user can therefore overlay the locations of the sensors along with the model predictions to understand the relationship between discrete sensor measurements and the wide area model forecast Movement of mobile sensors To improve the spatial resolu tion of sea surface temperature SST\ in the NYHOPS domain, vessels of opportunity \(NY Harbor sightseeing vessels, environmental research vessels and a commercial cruise liner\been  Figure 1 \226 Region modeled by NYHOPS and locations of sensors 


  3 fitted with flow through CTD cells connected to a logger and cellular transmission system. Although providing greater spatial coverage, thes e mobile platforms travel repetitive courses on a fixed schedule and only cover the surface waters over small regions of the NYHOPS domain In order to spatially sample any region of the NYHOPS domain, unmanned underwater vehicles \(UUVs\are deployed. These UUVs are fitted with sensors to complement the network of static sensors. The control of the UUV-based sensors involves the use of model forecasts in real-time. The MPC resour ce management algorithms can task the UUVs \(along with the stationary sensors\such that specific regions of interest identified from the ECOMSED model forecasts can be sampled in greater resolution. As the energy required to moving through water is very large, the planned paths for the UUV will take advantage of favorable conditions such as a following current and avoid unfavorable conditions as far as possible. We will implement a model of the energy expenditure of the UUV that takes into account the predicted water current in the MPC to compute this optimized path. The communication between forecast model and UUV will allow for near realtime adaptive control. The pa ths will take the UUV into specified regions in the Harbor to examine conditions of interest identified by the ocean model and then return the UUV to its home base 3  C URRENT D ATA D ISSEMINATION M ETHODS  The forecasts of the ECOMSED model are processed to provide advance notice of criti cal events such as storm surges, movement of plumes and oil spills to end-users. All NYHOPS forecasts, observations and blended present conditions are disseminated publicly through the worldwide-web as graphs, images, animations and data files. The latest predictions are displayed as images on a webpage for access by end users such as emergency responders and planners, and harbor vesse l operators. Currently, the communication channels for providing these data products to the end-users are established on a case-by-case basis Specific products and data services are directly disseminated to requesting agencies, organizations and individuals in tailored formats designed to be integrated with the disparate systems operated by each entity. For instance, NY Harbor and Bight current forecasts are served daily to the NOAA NOS Office of Response and Restoration for use in spill and/or floatable plume tracking analysis The current webpage that is used to present the ECOMSED model forecasts to the end users is shown in Figure 2. As can be seen, the user has to first select a pre-defined region of interest before the forecasts can be displayed. The user cannot seamlessly move across regions. As the forecasts are displayed as images, so the fo recasts cannot be visualized from any 3-D perspective. In addition, the user cannot zoom in or out to arbitrary levels 4  V ISUALIZATION ON A V IRTUAL G LOBE  We are working on presenting the forecasts and hindcasts from the ECOMSED/POM model in a format that can be visualized by the end user over the Internet using virtual globe software. A virtual globe overlays multiple geographic data sets over a 3-D model of the Earth\222s surface. These datasets are th en displayed to a user on a computer monitor. The virtual software graphical user interface \(GUI\, and tilt the viewable area. Thus the geographic datasets can be viewed at multiple resolutions and perspectives We have chosen Google Earth as the virtual globe software to display forecasts of th e ocean conditions from the ECOMSED model and in-situ measurements made by the sensors in the NYHOPS system. Google Earth enables datasets to be downloaded automatically from the Internet The datasets are then overlaid over a high resolution aerial imagery of the New York coastal region. In addition, the data can be indexed with time and the user can view the changing ocean conditions as an animation Display of model forecast The ECOMSED model genera tes 48 hour ocean condition predictions daily. These predictions are for one hour intervals and include temperature, salinity, and water currents. These parameters are available at multiple depths The model outputs are computed at points over a high resolution grid. The spatial resolution varies with the resolution of inland water bodies being orders of magnitude higher than that of the open ocean. Two main challenges in displaying such a dataset on the Google Earth virtual globe are  Figure 2 \226 Snapshot of the current NYHOPS visualization webpage 


  4 1  Mapping the range of data resolutions to fixed resolution images that will be overlaid on the virtual globe Data that is to be overlaid on the virtual globe is provided as rendered fixed resolution imag es. However, the underlying dataset has widely varying resolutions. In order to enable the user to examine inland water bodies at sufficient resolution, these images should ideally be rendered at the finest resolution in the dataset. However, rendering the entire modeled area at this resolution will result in images of very large size which will increase the time to download these images over the In ternet and increase the computational requirements \(memory\ of the user\222s computer for displaying these images 2  Mapping the range of data values to the single color map that is used in the displayed image: The ECOMSED model outputs hydrodynamic parameters for both inland water bodies and at the open ocean. Hence, the range of these parameters over the entire modeled area is large. For instance, the surface salinity varies from less than 3 psu in the freshwater streams to over 30 psu in the open ocean. As the virtual globe allows the user to seamlessly pan and zoom over the entire modeled region, a single color map has to be used to represent the entire range of parameter values. However, this results in the color map having insufficient resolution to distinguish local features We now describe our approach to solving the above problems. In order to represent different regions of the modeled area at different resolutions, we divide the entire area into a number of contiguous regions, where each region can be represented adequately at a single resolution For instance, the entire open o cean region is represented at the lowest resolution, while the lower Hudson River estuary is represented at a high resolution. The limitations of Google Earth restrict each regi on to be rectangular. These regions are depicted in Figure 3. The resolution in these regions and the number of grid points of the ECOMSED model that are included in each region is shown in Table 1 The image resolution used for each region is higher than the resolution of the ECOMSED model in that region in order to provide smooth interpolation In order to ensure that all images are not downloaded from the central server at one time and increase the latency of the virtual globe display, only the images representing those regions that are being viewed by the user at any given time are downloaded In order to ensure that the da ta in each region is displayed with a color map that is suffici ent to resolve local features we render the parameters at each region using multiple color maps. This results in mu ltiple images for each region Our system then allows the user to select the color map that is most appropriate for his or her use. For instance, if the user is interested in the distribution of salinity in inland freshwater bodies, then a map that has higher color resolution in the 0-8 psu range can be selected. Note that only one set of images \(with the user selected color map downloaded at a time to reduce the latency of the system Our image rendering at multiple resolutions is illustrated in Figure 4. The chief disadvantage of this approach of representing the area at multiple resolutions is the higher computational requirements for rendering the images. Note that the ECOMSED model produces one complete data set for every hour. In order to speed up the rendering of images, we pre-compute the mapping of ECOMSED model grid cells to image pixels. In this way, parameter values from an ECOMSED forecast for a particular time instant can be directly added to the pre-computed image template Figure 5 shows the portion of the Google Earth visualization that enables the us er to select different forecast parameters. Figure 6 shows an example of the depiction of sea surface salinity in the NY Harbor and Hudson River estuary regions. Figure 7 shows the corresponding SST Note that since the same colo r map is used for all images different regions are displayed seamlessly to the user   Figure 3 \226 Division of entire modeled area into regions with fixed resolution   Figure 4 \226 Steps in rendering ECOMSED model forecasts at multiple resolutions 


  5 Table 1 226 Resolution of regions used to represent entire modeled area Region Resolutio n of image m/pixel Number of ECOMSED model grid cells Area \(km 2  NY/NJ Harbor 60 5954 2099 Manhattan waters 19 1939 230 NY Bight apex 62 2525 3145 NJ coast 196 2505 22644 Long Island waters 136 4584 24390 Western Long Island Sound 16 391 258 Lower Hudson River estuary 46 623 586 Full area 634 15064 285224  Movement of mobile sensors The paths of the UUVs are planned in response to regions of interest identified from the ECOMSED model forecasts 2  One of t h e advant ages of usi ng a vi rt ual gl obe for disseminating data from a heter ogeneous sensor network is that movement of mobile entities can be displayed as an animation. The multiple UUVs are depicted using symbols overlaid over the positions of the UUVs in the New York Harbor region \(Figure 8 that the movement of UUVs can be overlaid over the ECOMSED model predictions for that period. In this way, the user can visualize the adaptation of the motion paths to model forecasts 5  R ELATED W ORK  The ECOMSED/POM combination is in use by almost 1900 research groups around the world, has several deployments  and over 600 papers have been publ i s hed wi t h  t h em  as the modeling engi Dat a assi m i l a t i on i n t o POM  has been evaluated over the Gulf Stream coastal waters [14], in open boundary conditions [15], and for coastal observing system The NYHOPS sy stem is a unique member of the POM family of models in that it continuously assimilates observation data to improve realtime model forecasts. It is the only system presently investigating the autonomous control of UUVs by the modeling system   Figure 5 \226 Snapshot of the Google Earth visualization front-end with user-selectable parameters   Figure 6 \226 Visualization of sea surface salinity in the NY harbor region and inland waters on a virtual globe Google Earth 


  6 In our earlier work, we had developed the basic mathematical formulation that enabled the Model Predictive Control \(MPC\echnique to be used for adapting the operation of a distributed sensor web to both system resources and environment model predicti W e  showed that the MPC based adaptive control of sensor sampling rates resulted in decrease of the error in the forecasts of the ECOMSED ocean model. In this work, we describe how the results of the adaptive control framework can be visualized on a virtual globe Howe et al. describe a marine observation network in Puget Sound and how adaptive sampling with satellite data can be  C onover et al descri be how rem o t e l y  sensed dat a  can be assimilated into a regional Weather Research and Forecasting m r work, the satellite data is not integrated with data from a ground-based network of sensors. Conover et al and Kedar et al 19 al so use Open Geospatial Consortium \(OGC\Web Enablement \(SWE r information exchange. In our work, OGC standards will be used to disseminate data products to end-users with different data alert requirements 6  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  We described the use of virtual globe software \(Google Earth\to display both system data outputs and system control inputs of a distributed coastal environment sensor web. The system data products that are displayed on the virtual globe software are forecasts from a hydrodynamic model and the control inputs are the locations and data outputs of both static and mobile sensors. We described the steps necessary to be implemented in an operational system to reduce the latency of the visualization system. This includes pre-computing multiple resolution images of the underlying data and transferri ng only the necessary portions of this pre-rendered data to the user In future work, we will integrate a data communication system based on OGC standards into the online visualization system. The OGC has released a set of protocols designed to facilitate exchange of geospatial products to different types of consumers. This will enable the NYHOPS outputs to be used seamlessly by other systems and end-users A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  This work was supported in part by NASA Advanced Information Systems Technology program under grants AIST-QRS-06-0017 and AIST-QRS-08-0002 to the first author. The authors also wish to acknowledge the contributions of Alan Blumberg, Thomas Herrington and Nickitas Georgas at the Steven s Institute of Technology for providing the datasets and gi ving insights into the NYHOPS sensor network system R EFERENCES    T O Herri ngt on M S. B runo, and J. W R a nki n, "The New Jersey Coastal Monitoring Network: A Real-Time Coastal Observation System Journal of Marine Environmental Engineering vol. 6, pp. 69-82, 2000   Figure 7 \226 Visualization of sea surface temperature in the NY harbor region and inland waters on a virtual globe \(Google Earth   Figure 8 \226 Visualization of mobile sensors on a virtual globe \(Google Earth\lue markers indicate fixed sensor locations, green \223towers\224 i ndicate data loggers, and three markers indicating UUVs are visible in the NY harbor 


  7   A. Tal ukder, A. Panangadan, A F B l um berg T Herrington, and N. Georgas, "Improving the science return from coastal sensor webs using autonomous predictive control and resource management," in Eighth Annual Earth Science Technology Conference University of Maryland, 2008   A Tal ukder A Panangadan, T. Herri ngt on, A. F Blumberg, and N. Georgas, "Autonomous adaptive resource management in sensor network systems for environmental monitoring," in IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky, Montana, 2008   D Q. M a y n e, J. B. Rawlings, C. V. Rao, and P. O. M  Scokaert, "Constrained model predictive control: Stability and optimality Automatica vol. 36, pp. 789-814, JUN 2000   A. F. B l um berg, L. A. Khan, and J. P. St  John Three dimensional hydrodynamic model of New York Harbor region Journal of Hydraulic Engineering-Asce vol. 125 pp. 799-816, AUG 1999   A. F. B l um berg and G. L. M e l l o r, "A descri pt i on of a three-dimensional coastal ocean circulation model," in American Geophysical Union Washington, D.C., 1987 pp. 1\22616   F. Aikm an, G. L. M e llor, T Ezer, D. Sheinin, P. Chen, L Breaker, K. Bosley, and D. B. Rao, "Toward an operational nowcast/forecast system for the U.S. East Coast," in Modern Approaches to Data Assimilation in Ocean Modeling vol. 61, P. Malanotte-Rizzoli, Ed Elsevier, 1996, pp. 347-376   T. Ezer and G. L. M e l l o r Di a gnost i c  and Prognost i c  Calculations of the North-Atlantic Circulation and SeaLevel Using a Sigma-Coor dinate Ocean Model Journal of Geophysical Research-Oceans vol. 99, pp. 1415914171, JUL 15 1994   D J. Schwab and K. W B e dford, "The Great Lakes Forecasting System," in Coastal Ocean Prediction 1999 pp. 157-174   A F B l um berg and D. M  Goodri c h, "M odel i ng of Wind-Induced Destratifica tion in Chesapeake Bay Estuaries vol. 13, pp. 236-249, SEP 1990   B Gal p eri n A. F. B l um berg, and R H W e i s berg The Importance of Density Driven Circulation in Well Mixed Estuaries: The Tampa Bay Experience," in 2nd International Conference on Estuarine and Coastal Modeling Tampa, Florida, 1991, pp. 332-343   M  S. B runo, A. F. B l um berg and T O Herri ngt on The Urban Ocean Observatory - Coastal Ocean Observations and Forecasting in the New York Bight Journal of Marine Science and Environment vol. C4, pp 1-9, 2006  T. Ezer and G. L Mellor Data assim ilation experiments in the Gulf Stream region: How useful are satellite-derived surface data for nowcasting the subsurface fields Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology vol. 14, pp. 1379-1391, DEC 1997   J. G. W Kel l e y H. J. Thi e baux, D. C h al i kov, D W  Behringer, and B. Balasubramaniyan, "Impact of data assimilation in the coastal ocean forecast system," in Second Conference on Coastal Atmospheric and Oceanic Prediction and Processes Phoenix, AZ, 1998, pp. 7-10   I. Shul m a n, J. K. Lewi s, and J. G. M a y e r Local  dat a  assimilation in the estimation of barotropic and baroclinic open boundary conditions Journal of Geophysical Research-Oceans vol. 104, pp. 13667-13680, JUN 15 1999  D. McGillicuddy and L. J. W a lstad, "Data assim ilation for coastal observing systems Oceanography vol. 13 pp. 47-53, 2000   B M Howe, N. Parrish, L. Tracy A. Gray Y. Chao, T McGinnis, P. Arabshahi, and S. Roy, "A Smart Sensor Web for Ocean Observation: Integrated Acoustics Satellite Networking, and Predictive Modeling," in Earth Science Technology Conference University of Maryland University College, 2008   H C onover H M  Goodm an, B  Zavodsky K. R e gner M. Maskey, J. Lu, X. Li, M. Botts, and G. Berthiau Intelligent Assimilation of Sa tellite Data into a Forecast Model Using Sensor Web Processes and Protocols," in Earth Science Technology Conference University of Maryland University College, 2008   S Kedar, S. C h i e n, F. W e bb, D. Tran, J. Doubl eday A Davis, D. Pieri, W. Song, B. Shirazi, R. LaHusen, J Pallister, D. Dzurisin, S. Moran, and M. Lisowski Optimized Autonomous Space In-situ Sensor-Web for Volcano Monitoring," in Earth Science Technology Conference  University of Maryland University College 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Ashit Talukder graduated with a Ph.D in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University in 1999. His research interests and expertise include pattern recognition image and signal processing, machine learning, AI, controls, computer vision optimization, and mathematics, applied to 


  8 data mining, robotics, autonomous systems and sensors sensor networks, biometrics, ATR, and human-machine interaction  He is currently a Senior Researcher \(Level A\ at Jet Propulsion Laboratory / NASA, California Institute of Technology, in Pasadena, California, and also holds a joint appointment as a research adjunct faculty member at University of Southern Californ ia and senior researcher at CHLA. He is a principal investigator, project manager and technical lead on several NASA, NIH, NSF, DoD and JPLfunded projects. He has over 55 refereed journal and conference publications and he has authored a book chapter  Dr. Talukder is on the organizing committee of the Annual SPIE Defense and Security Symposium and chair of the ESSA-2009 workshop on sensor networks for Earth and Space Science under IPSN-2009. He is on the Technical Organizing committee of the   IJCAI-09 Workshop on Artificial Intelligence in Space he ld at the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence \(IJCAI-09\. He is a Technical Program Committee member of the International Conference on Digital Telecommunications ICDT 2006 and The First International Conference on Advances in Computer-Human Interaction ACHI 2008. He has a patent for a biomedical data analysis and visualization system which was nominated for the NASA software of the year, and holds a provisional patent for a remote biometric identification system. He is a recipient of the NASA Space Act Award and a PACE award at Iowa State University. He has chai red several SPIE conference sessions and given three invited conference talks. He is a reviewer on several technical journals  Anand Panangadan is a Post-doctoral Affiliate at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and a Research Associate at the Saban Research Institute of the Childrens Hospital Los Angeles. He is developing algorithms for energy conservation in wireless sensor networks. These algorithms are to be deployed in remote human health monitoring systems and environmental sensor networks. He has also designed data compression algorithms that take into account the lossy nature of wireless transmission. Prior to joining the Childrens Hospital Los Angeles, Dr Panangadan was a post-doctoral researcher at the Robotics Research Lab of the Unive rsity of Southern California While there, he developed probabilistic models for describing human movement and region detection algorithms for sensor ne tworks. Dr. Panangadan received the Ph.D. degree in computer sc ience from the University of California, Los Angeles in 2002 He received the B.Tech degree in Computer science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay in 1996  


