Multivariate Patent Similarity Detection  Kas Kasravi, C.Mfg.E EDS kas.kasravi@eds.com Marie Risov EDS marie.risov@eds.com    Abstract  As patent filings and litigations increase, there is an increasing demand for more effective detection of similarities among patents, leading to better prior art search, market gap analysis infringement detection legal discovery, and litigation support. Ample patent data is readily available, but detection of similarities 
among patents is difficult, generally resulting in high false-positive and false-negative errors. A multivariate approach to detection of similarities among patents benefits from the advantages offered by several different tech niques. In particular leveraging text mining, the patent classification system, and patent citations can each improve accuracy. Further, visualization of the multiple variables can further assist the patent searchers  Disclaimer  1- This paper references a number of topics 
related to patent laws; however, it does not provide legal advice in any form or fashion. The reader is encouraged to contact a patent attorney or appropriate legal counsel for legal advice 2- The analysis presented in this paper uses publicly available data from the United States Patent and Trademark Office \(USPTO\1 T h e an al y s e s  discussed in this paper are for illustration purposes only, limited in scope, and not intended to express an 
opinion about any of the patents or their inventors and/or assignees  1. Introduction  Innovation is a driving force behind economic growth [2 p a t e nt s a r e i n he r e nt l y a b o u t i nno va t i o n  and economic growth. Table 1 illustrates the Gross State Product \(GSP\or all the states, clustered into High \($48K/year\ \($39K/year\d Low 34K/year\ 2006, and the number of patents filed 
in those states per 1,000 residents. This data demonstrates a correlation between states with higher GSP and patent filings; indicating a potential connection between patent activities and economic growth Table 1. GSP and patent filing rates GSP Patents / 1,000 Residents High \($48K/year 39 
Medium \($39K/year 9 Low \($34K/year 8  Not surprisingly, the past two decades have seen a significant rise in patent activities. An increasing number of patents are being filed \(Figure 1 d  the number of patent infringement actions have a compound average growth of 5.8% since 1991 [4  
  Figure 1. US Patent Trends, 1986-2005  The processes for developing new inventions prosecuting new patent applications, patent litigation and other applications such as market intelligence, all require good insights into current and prior patents The increasing level of patent activities is now 
creating a greater need for patent search, in general and patent similarity detection in particular The US patent database, publicly available from the USPTO, contains detailed information about over eight million issued and pending patents. This Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


database forms the basis for electronic patent search However, the search for patents proves to be a complex process, and it s usually very difficult to reliably locate relevant patents In this paper, a process is discussed for simultaneously leveraging multiple patent similarity detection methods \(e.g., keywords, inventive fields and citation\ along with visualization tools to better help a patent searcher with locating relevant patents  2. Patent Similarity  Patents are fairly complex legal documents describing a technical invention. Two patents are considered similar when they describe the same invention, which could include identical elements, or equivalent concepts Due to legal and financial ramifications, detecting similarity between two patents is arguably more complex than with other types of documents. Two patents may share identical keywords, yet describe very different inventions; or, they may use very different keywords, and yet describe the same invention Applications of patent similarity detection include    Research for new inventions   Prior art search   Infringement detection   Legal discovery   Competitive intelligence and gap analysis   Discovery of new inventive opportunities   Patent portfolio analysis  The demand for patent searches has led to the creation of firms that specialize in nothing but patent searching, as well as new tools and commercial services enabling online patent searches Historically, patent searches were conducted manually, using an archaic patent classification system and the physical inspection of documents. For the past several years, a number of free and commercial patent database and search tools have existed, which simplify the search process. However patent search still remains a difficult task Experienced patent searches use multiple attempts and multiple methods to start with a broad net, and successively narrow the search. Patent search methodologies may include    Keywords   Thesaurus   Fields of invention   Citations The problem with conventional patent search is false-positives \(Type I\where too many unrelated patents are identified; and false-negatives \(Type II where relevant patents are not identified The repercussions of ineffective patent search can be legally and financially grave for an inventor or manufacturer Unfortunately, common standards do not exist for documenting inventions. Different inventors and patent practitioners may use entirely different ways of describing the same concept. Further, patent examiners may use different standards and experiences for classifying patents, searching for prior art, and listing the citations. Jensen a s found that about 6% of patents are incorrectly rejected by patent offices, and about 10% are incorrectly granted The lack of common standards for expressing inventions leads to difficulties when patents are searched for similarity. Therefore, better methods for patent searching are needed  3. Patent Background  In order to analyze patents for similarity, it is essential to develop a basic understanding of the legal foundation and patent data. Each country implements its own laws for managing their intellectual property In this paper, we focus on the patent practices of the USPTO  3.1 Legal Foundation  The roots of patents and their connection with economic growth are found in the US Constitution Article I, section 8, clause 8: "To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries 6 This clause, in the first article of the Constitution recognizes the result as a patent system that rewards the inventors with limited exclusive rights, requires the inventor to disclose all that is known about the invention, and allows the invention to enter the economy after a limited period of time The key patentability requirements relevant to patent similarity detection are    Novelty \(35 USC 102\ An invention must be new and not previously disclosed. Various rules define novelty, such as the invention should not have been known or used in the US, or patented or published in any country, etc Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  Non-Obviousness \(35 USC 103\ Trivial inventions won't do. A patent requires an invention that demonstrates a substantial level of ingenuity   Enablement \(35 USC 112\ A patent is a bargained for exchange, where the government provides the inventor with limited exclusive rights, and in return the inventor must disclose all that is known about the invention and its best mode of creation and use The Enablement requirement ensures that all relevant information about an invention is adequately described, which forms the basis for comparative analysis of patents. The Novelty and NonObviousness requirements define the standards for similarity and equivalence of patents  3.2 Patent Data  Currently, the USPTO reports that over 7 million patents have been issued in the US, and about 1.5 million patents are pending. There is a substantial amount of electronic data that is available for each published patent or patent application, and freely available to the general public. Examples of the data are inventors and assignees, locations, fields of inventions, national and international patent classes backward and forward references, dates, and maintenance status. The full text of patents is stored and can be downloaded \(including the abstracts specifications, and claims The specific data and fields that are particularly helpful for patent similarity detection are discussed below  3.2.1. Textual Sections Several data fields provide various descriptions of the invention. These fields are ripe for keyword searching, text mining, and contextual analysis. Some of the more relevant fields are presented here Title is a brief and descriptive title for the invention. This section concisely identifies the subject of the invention as seen by the inventor and the patent attorney. However, the brevity also limits the text mining value, but there may be only a few keywords to consider Abstract is a short section, usually a single paragraph, which describes the gist of an invention so that the reader can quickly gain a sense of what the invention is about. The abstract was historically intended to simplify patent search. Therefore, the abstract is intentionally rich with content keywords Background is an identification of the related art their deficiencies, and why there is a need for a new invention. Nothing is said about the invention therefore, using keywords from this section may actually have a negative effect on the search efficacy Claims section is the most complex part of a patent and also defines the legally protected invention, element by element. As the section is heavy on the legal language, extracting meaningful concepts is a little more challenging than in the abstract section. The language of this section provides a clean account of relationships between protected elements, which may yield a valid case for natural language processing techniques Field of Invention provides a verbal expression of the problem domain that is also described by a numeric patent classification code. The categorization is performed manually by a patent examiner akin to patent classification, and thus may be inconsistent. Therefore, there is no extra value in text mining this section in case patent classes are considered for the overall analysis as well Summary and Detailed Description sections address technical details of the invention that may not be as useful in the initial stages of a search. The content of these sections is extensive, and may have unrelated terminology. For example bank as a financial institution, river bank or bank as a set of items. Such abundance of meanings can easily lead to false positive results. However, these sections may be more useful in the latter stages of search, when the number of patents under consideration has been substantially narrowed. As a step further, these sections lend themselves to text mining and extraction of semantic information  3.2.2. Patent Classification Patent classification is a system for organizing patent documents into hierarchical collections based on their subject matter  T h ere are s e v e ral s t an dard clas s i fication  s y s t e m s   The International Patent Classification \(IPC\sed internationally. The United States Patent Classification \(USPC\ is maintained by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The European Classification \(ECLA\ is based on the IPC, but adapted by the European Patent Office to its own requirements Although the patent class definitions and hierarchical structures differ from system to system all of them were created for the same purpose Historically, there was no alternative mechanism of clustering documents by topic, and hence narrowing the search scope, to manual categorization With the number of patents approaching eight million, and the number of classes and subclasses being more than 150,000 in US classification only such a manual method cannot work efficiently. First of all, patent examiners may inconsistently assign Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


patents to classes; secondly there is always room for differing interpretations where judgment is subjective This paper concentrates on the US Patent Classification System \(USPC An alphanumeric classification number consists of two parts, the main class and a subclass further detailing the topic. For instance, patent number US4161079 Instant mouse trap is assigned main US class 43 Fishing, Trapping, and Vermin Destroying and a subclass 58 Traps  A patent may be classified in one or more classes Each patent has one primary classification, which reflects the main subject matter, and may have one or more secondary classifications based on additional topics. As an example, patent US5906983 High fructose containing insecticide compositions and methods of using the same is assigned four different classifications, 514/89, 424/84, 514/406, and 514/407. Class 514 is dealing with Drug, bioaffecting and body treating compositions each subclass referring to a specific substance formula class 424 has the same general label as 514, but subclass 84, referring to uses as baits, attractants or non-food lures. More examples of patent classes and subclasses are presented in Table 2  Table 2. Examples of classes and subclasses  US Class Definition Subclass Definition 002 Apparel 2.11 Astronaut s body cover 411 Including energyabsorbing means 49.1 Infant s bib 128 Surgery 96.1 Abdominal 892 Joint or limb 893 Foot/toe 894 Padded or cushioned 215 Bottles and jars 229 With straw 12.2 Coating or lamination 370 End wall structure 709 Electrical computers and digital processing systems multicomputer data transferring 217 Remote data accessing 218 Using interconnected networks  Patent classes inherently help with clustering and searching similar patents; however, potential inconsistencies render them less useful as the single method for patent search  3.2.2. Patent Citations Patent examiners search thoroughly for other patents, applications, and nonpatent publications that preceded each patent application. References from each patent to such materials, or prior art, are called domestic or  backward references or backward citations On the other hand, when subsequent patents reference the current patent as prior art, similarly to an academic paper being cited, such reference to subsequent art are called forward citations  Patent citations can be invaluable tools for detecting similarities among patents  3.3 Electronic Patent Search Background  Electronic patent tools have been available for some time. For example, Google Paten  Patents Online P T O 1 an d oth e rs prov ide  patent databases and search tools, which help to identify patent prior art. These tools primarily rely on searching by the structured fields \(e.g., dates inventors, and assignees\ well as keywords Searching by the structured fields, when known, can help to narrow the search space; search by keywords can present Type I and Type II errors. In any case numerous hits are likely. Experienced patent searchers can obtain goof results by restricting the scope of the patent search To reduce the errors, more advanced conceptual search techniques can be used, such as the Latent Semantic Analysis [LSA ech n i q u e us ed b y th e  Seme e arch en gin e library T h e con c ept similarity is based less on the specific query keywords, and more predominantly on their contextual relationships to other terms. Such techniques can provide the ability to index both structured and unstructured fields, thus providing document comparison based on content, as well as descriptive data Another patent search technique involves navigating through citations in the aforementioned electronic databases. This technique requires the searcher to manually click through many links and review each reference separately. This technique is productive, but can be very tedious. Some commercial tools, such as Citation Link in Delphion  is t y pe o f s earc h  w i t h a v i s u al tool However, a deficiency within this approach is the focus on a single concept \(or patent\me Each of the above techniques offers certain advantages and disadvantages. To help the patent searcher, we have developed a visual multivariate search that simultaneously incorporates features of patent class, context, and citations within a single environment  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


4. Multivariate Patent Similarity Detection  To alleviate Type I and Type II problems with patent similarity detection, we discuss a method that uses multivariate analysis. In particular    Keywords and concepts \(text mining   Patent classes   Patent citations   Link visualization  4.1 Keywords and Concepts  Virtually all commercial patent search tools support keyword searching, as well as structured fields such as dates, inventors, and countries. In the hands of the novice user, keyword searching can lead to numerous Type I errors, and possibly many Type II errors An improvement is in the use of text mining where the key inventive concepts are extracted from the target patent document and used as keywords for analyzing a patent database. Conceptual searching is more likely to lead to a better outcome \(especially fewer Type II errors\se many similar patents use similar concepts but not the same keywords  4.2 Patent Classes  Patent classes cluster patents by their inventive fields. Patents within a class can be significantly different from each other from an inventive point of view. Therefore, patent class alone is inadequate for searching, but it can eliminate many Type I errors if used simultaneous with keyword and concept searching  4.3 Patent Citations  Patent citations demonstrate the development of an inventive concept, over time. This can be an invaluable tool for reducing Type I errors, because related patents inherently share common inventive elements. However, patent citations alone substantially narrow the search scope, and can lead to Type II errors. Figure 2 illustrates a sample patent citation   US4161079 Class 43/58 US4349981 Class 43131, 43114 US4281471 Class 43131 5454186 Class 43114 5906983 Class 514/89, 424/84 514/406, 514/407 Backward Citations Forward Citations Target Patent  Figure 2. Sample backward and forward citations  4.4 Link Visualization  A combination of the preceding approaches, when used together, can help reduce Type I and Type II errors by focusing the patent searcher on relevant patents. However, the process is tedious and memory intensive, involving multiple iterations. Here, link visualization can help makes sense of volumes of related data Link visualization is a simple tool for incorporating large volumes of information into a single image, where patents, concepts, classes, and citations are viewed in aggregate. Some commercial link visualization tools, such as i2 Analyst s Notebook [1 o allo w th e n odes an d link s to  display content information, and therefore aid the patent searcher with rapid similarity detection  5. Example  To demonstrate multivariate patent similarity detection, we present a well known patent litigation case between RIM and NTP, along with other wireless telecommunication companies, such as Klausner, Seven Networks, Visto, and Vonage. In each case, appropriate patent data was obtained from USPTO s publicly available databases For text analysis, we used a custom tool based on the Lucene e arch library t h at ex tracted  meaningful keywords from patent abstracts. For link visualization, we used the i2 Analyst s Notebook   We defined three types of nodes: 1\t; 2 Patent Class; and 3\Term. The Patent Class node also contained the Filing Date and Assignee attributes. In order to take advantage of the patent abstract content, we converted the abstracts to semantic vectors and imported resulting meaningful terms as Term nodes We have also imported the object relationships as links. The relationships drawn from the data were Patent to US Class, Patent to Term, and Patent to Patent through citation relationships \(Figure 3  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 Figure 3. Sample links among patent nodes  A typical network analysis problem arose that precluded visual identification of direct and indirect linkages, due to the high volume of objects on the screen. Therefore, we used several different approaches for enhanced analysis of the data, where such technique would be applicable in a specific business context  5.1 Cluster Identification  By using the tool s Find Clusters function, we were able to identify high connectivity clusters which revealed the most popular, and therefore contested, topics in the industry \(Figure 4\. This technique is valuable for a searcher that performs an industry assessment   Figure 4. High connectivity cluster  5.2 Direct Link Investigation  A more focused approach involved starting with a single patent or a group of closely clustered patents identified in the previous step. Identification of items directly connected to the node in question gave us an immediate keyword list, patent classification information, and an immediate view of all forward and backward citations involved. For instance, a mechanical manipulation device accelerated by detection of urgency conditions is classified by USPTO as 341 Coded data generation or conversion and 345 Computer graphics processing and selective visual display systems We could immediately see that this patent references five others, but has no subsequent inventions pointing to it Figure 5   Figure 5. Space of a single patent at a glance  A visual concept search allowed starting with either a single term or a chosen group of concepts in order to find corresponding inventions produced in the given area \(Figure 6   Figure 6. Finding patents on the same topic  For example, if a searcher is interested in satellite communications, he/she can quickly find inventions exploiting the subject, and then further explore them This will be similar to a typical keyword search, but with the ability to visually navigate the results Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Simply starting with a patent class node will return too many links for a meaningful search However, color-coding patent attributes, such as Assignee, helps the searcher to quickly identify organizations that own key inventions in the technology spectrum of interest. Figure 7 suggests that the chosen group of companies does not have a large representation in patent class 343 Communications: Radio Wave Antennas but we have two companies, RIM and NTP that have touched this space   Figure 7. Finding presence in a given class  5.3 Indirect Link Investigation  While direct linkage techniques are excellent for rapid fact gathering about an object of interest, the most value may come serendipitously from indirect links that are not obvious Finding all links of depth 2 may present the desirable result for a node that is poorly connected However, there is a high probability such result may not be relevant \(Type I error\or instance performing a depth 2 link search on the US patent 7088294 Mobile wireless communications device comprising a top-mounted auxiliary input/output device and a bottom-mounted antenna produced a network of 494 entities. Therefore, upon finding all indirectly connected nodes, we have performed connectivity clustering on the resulting graph, which left in place only the most relevant nodes. Two patent abstracts may not contain common keywords, or contain only a few of them, but reference the same collection of documents as a prior art. Alternatively they both may be referenced by other patents filed after them. The two nodes in question will not be identified by a keyword search, but should be reviewed by a patent searcher. The typical result of such operation is automatic identification of a group of patents filed by the same inventor or entity, such as a group of NTP patents that share the same concept space, patent office classification, and backward references to patents that do not belong to the firms chosen for the current analysis \(Figure 8   Figure 8. Concept-class references high connectivity cluster  A different type of cluster does not show significant overlap in textual representation, but is highly connected through references \(Figure 9   Figure 9. Reference cluster  Even if we were not aware of the litigation between NTP and RIM in 2006, we could easily say that these two firms are active in the same inventive space. Incidentally, three out of four NTP patents represented in Figure 9 were referenced in the litigation  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


5.4 Sample Result  An experimental search was performed with an arbitrarily chosen pending patent US200600240804 Data security in a mobile e-mail service assigned to Seven Networks. The result set that was produced by the search on links and subsequent clustering was visually assessed \(Figure 10  Figure 10. Subjective assessment of visual similarity detection results  Eight patent nodes were visually close to the query node US20060240804 \(e.g., US2006240805 US2006235955, and US2006277265\These patents were manually reviewed for relevancy. Out of the eight candidate result nodes, seven were strongly or partially relevant to the topic. Interestingly US2006240805 Email messaging to/from a mobile terminal is also by Seven Networks For comparison, the keywords data  security  mobile and e-mail were used to search for patents in Google Patents [8 d Free P a ten ts On lin e   earch tools  T h e f o rm e r pro du ced n earl y 600 hits, and the latter generated over 4,100 hits. These and other commercial tools can produce excellent results when used carefully; however, a patent searcher can benefit from a multivariate approach to detecting similarities among patents  6. Conclusion  Patents represent innovation and can be of critical value to forward looking organizations. Publicly available patent databases contain a substantial amount of patent data, and the increasing patent activities are demanding better methods for detecting similarities among patents for applications such as prior art search, infringement detection, and competitive intelligence. Conventional patent search methodologies are unreliable, or time consuming at best. Multivariate patent similarity detection simultaneously uses multiple search techniques, and increases the probability of locating similar patents more rapidly. The search techniques include the key inventive concepts, patent classes, and patents citations. The patent searcher can be further assisted by navigation capabilities offered by link visualization  7. References   US P T O P a ten t S e arch T o o l   US P T O w e b site  2 J a rboe K  P a nd A t k i ns o n R.D  T he Ca s e  f o r  Technology in the Knowledge Economy: R&D, Economic Growth, and the Role of Government", Progressive Policy Institute, June 1998  US P T O P a ten t Class S earch T o o l  US P T O w e b site 4 L e vk o A  T o rre s  V., a n d Te e l uc k s ing h J  2008 Patent Litigation Study: Damagaes, Awards, Success Rates and Time-to-Trial PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP, 2008 5 J e ns e n P  H  P a la ng k a ra y a A  a nd W e bs te r, E Misclassification in Patent Offices Intellectual Property Research Institute of Australia, Working Paper No. 02/08 May 2008 6 Unite d Sta t e s Co nstit uti on  Artic le I 7 Ov e r v i e w o f the U.S. P a te nt Cla ssif i c a tion Sy st e m  USPC\, USPTO web site 8 G oog le  P a te nt Se a r c h w e b s ite  9 Fre e  P a te nts O n line w e b site   1  Semetric: Conceptual Search and Discovery  Technology White Paper, Engenium Corporation 11 T hom s on D e lp hi on w e b s ite   12 i 2 A n aly s t s Notebook , i2 Inc s web site 1 L u cen e Op en S o u r ce S earch  L i b r ar y    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


In subsection 2.2, the key objective is to introduce dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF 2008e PHM architecture. DHF is an extension to tradition hybrid fault models which are based on Agreement algorithms in distributed computing and form an essential theoretical foundation for the fault tolerance systems. Agreement algorithms study the conditions for non-faulty components to reach an agreement with the existence of faulty 6 components in a distributed system. Hybrid fault models are mathematical constraints that specify the conditions to reach agreement and are the theoretical foundations for fault tolerant system design and management. However traditional hybrid fault models lack real time notion and are discrete and static. DHF models overcome the limitation of hybrid fault models and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible and the real-time reliability assessment more realistic.  This is the first introduction of DHF modeling to PHM. The case was naturally made with the monitoring sensor network in PHM since DHF models were first developed in the context of wireless sensor networks \(Ma 2008a sensory network is important given that it should address the unreliable sensors problem \(sending malicious and asymmetric fault values to other sensor nodes also be necessary for dealing with failures in the physical system itself, rather than through the monitoring sensor network. The DHF modeling is necessary whenever the components of the physical system are dependent with each other  The DHF modeling also depends on evolutionary game theory \(EGT multiple survivor functions of different groups of sensor nodes who may possess different behaviors \(including failure modes, see Figure 2 sensor node or physical device is a game player and the survivor function \(reliability fitness game. This integration of survival analysis \(which models lifetime and reliability means of EGT not only puts lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified framework, but also raises the survivability analysis to a new level, termed strategic level by Ma \(2008 analysis only to assess the consequences of UUUR events The uniqueness of strategic level is that evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS survivable or sustainable strategies. When there is not any UUUR risk in the system, the sustainable strategies can be implemented and survivability is equivalent to reliability Nevertheless, if there is any UUUR risk in the systems strategic level modeling of survivability is necessary but not sufficient. This is because we do not know when the ESS strategies should be implemented because of the fundamental inability to predict when the UUUR events may occur. In this case, survivability and reliability are different, and a reliable system is not necessarily survivable This necessitates the next level modeling, operational level modeling, to achieve system survivability. The more detailed discussion on the DHF and strategic level modeling, or the topics initiated in subsection 2.2, will be expanded in Section 4  Strategic Level Modeling  In subsection 2.3, the general architecture of life system approach to PHM takes its sketchy shape. Figure 3 is drawn to exhibit the major modules of a PHM system and its interfaces with other applications for which the PHM may be an enabling technology. The subsection also briefly introduces each module and their implications to the overall goal of a PHM system, with focusing on the two modules that are not widely adopted in existing PHM system, DHF models and survivability.  In addition, the subsection 


models and survivability.  In addition, the subsection continued the discussion of survivability in previous subsection, i.e., when UUUR events are involved, a third layer  operational level modeling is necessary.  At the operational level, to circumvent the inability to predict the occurrence of UUUR events, the principle of hedging is adopted by introducing a duo of survivability metrics expected survivability and threshold survivability.  The duo of metrics helps to implement sustainable strategies promptly and protect a system from possible UUUR events such as malicious acts or catastrophic failures.  This new approach requires neither the knowledge of the probabilities of UUUR events nor an assignment of subjective probabilities to the events.  Section 5 discusses the operational level modeling as well as the remaining issues set to discuss in this paper  Subsection 2.4 explains that the new life system approach can conveniently accommodate security policy because majority of security events at the policy level can be captured with UUUR events. The point is that maintenance may "break" security even if there are not any humaninitiated malicious security breaches  3. TACTICAL LEVEL MODELING AND SURVIVAL ANALYSIS APPROACHES  As indicated in the previous section, the main objective of this section is to provide mathematical tools for modeling lifetime and reliability at both individual and population level. Lifetime and reliability constitutes two of the most critical modules of PHM. The approaches we use are survival analysis \(univariate multivariate survival analysis. Comprehensive discussions of these approaches in the context of PHM and reliability can be found in Ma and Krings \(2008a, 2008b, 2008c, &amp 2008d the justifications for each approach in a group of text boxes  3.1. Survival Analysis  Survival analysis \(Box 3.1; Ma &amp; Krings 2008a for detailed discussion in the context of PHM and reliability traditional reliability analysis and lifetime modeling in PHM. Ad-hoc applications of survival analysis in reliability research were attempted in 1980s, not long after the advancement of survival analysis. However, the applications of survival analysis in reliability to date are still limited in comparison with its huge success in biomedicine where it has become a de facto standard for biomedical data analysis and modeling. Mazzuchi et al. \(1989 who advocated the use of Cox proportional hazards model in reliability analysis. Millar \(2007 introduce survival analysis approach to PHM modeling Here we only summarize the following advantages of 7 survival analysis over traditional reliability analysis with respect to the reliability analysis and PHM  1 reliability analysis possesses: e.g., reliability function [R\(t is equivalent to survivor function [S\(t used in both fields; mean residual lifetime \(MRL equivalent to remaining useful time \(RUL MRL is much more flexible  2 partial information from the censored \(incomplete observations. Censoring is almost unavoidable in failure data analysis.  For example, it is simply too expensive or unacceptable to observe the full courses of some failure events, which leads to right censoring.  Similarly, there are 


events, which leads to right censoring.  Similarly, there are left censoring, random censoring, and interval censoring Censoring creates significant challenges to traditional reliability analysis and PHM, nevertheless, much of the theoretic research on survival analysis has been focused on better addressing the censoring issues. Therefore, it can be said, when coming to dealing with censoring, survival analysis, including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis offer the best solutions  3 Hazards models and Accelerated Failure Models offer powerful techniques for modeling time and covariates dependent hazard and survivor \(reliability are much more flexible and powerful than those used in traditional reliability analysis  4 for both individual and population level modeling. At individual, it provides lifetime or failure probability modeling, and at population, the emergent population properties can be comprehensively captured with metrics such as p-quantiles, survivor functions, MRL \(mean residual lifetime mean time to failure equivalent to remaining useful time in PHM, but its expanded version, the Proportional MRL due to Oaks &amp Dasu \(1990 2005 much more flexible and possesses the power of Cox Proportional hazards model  5 unpredictable.  Otherwise, the observations are artificially biased [e.g., intentionally censoring \(removal from a clinical drug trial.]. Therefore, unpredictable events such as malicious actions in security and survivability may be treated as censored events, and survival analysis can then be applied to assess the consequences \(effects This notion can also be extended to competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis. The so-defined UUUR Unpredictable, latent, Unobserved and Unobservable Risks censoring in survival analysis in competing risks analysis Unobserved and Unobservable \(shared frailty in multivariate survival analysis                             


                                Box 3.1. Basics of Survival Analysis  A comprehensive discussion of this topic in the context of PHM can be found in Ma and Krings \(2008a Survival analysis, also known as failure time analysis, has become a de facto standard for analyzing time-to-event data in biomedical research in the last two decades Survival analysis studies positive random variables for describing times to events in concern, also known as survival time, failure time, or simply time-to-event  Survivor Function and Hazard Function  Survivor function and hazard function are two of the most fundamental definitions in survival analysis. The survivor function S\(t time \(T is lt;&lt;?= ttTPtS 0   Note that S\(t function R\(t instantaneous rate of failure at T=t, conditional upon survival to time t.  It is defined as      lim  0 tS tf t tTttTtPt t  lt The above definitions are for univariate survival analysis; survival analysis has been extended to multivariate systems, or the multivariate survival analysis Hougaard 2000, Ma and Krings 2008c 3.7 and 3.8 for Multivariate Survival Analysis  Fundamental Model of Survival Analysis  


 Cox \(1972 most fundamental model in survival analysis. It is a semi-parametric model that correlates conditional survivor \(hazard vector \(z  Hazard Function ?\(t, z covariate vector z zetzt  0 where ?0 \(t function for continuous failure time T  Conditional Survival Functions \(on z   0   ztSztS where  t duutS 0 00 exp is the baseline survivor function  There are numerous extensions to Cox's model \(e.g Therneau and Grambsch 2000, Martinussen &amp; Scheike 2006 8                             UUUR, survival analysis, competing risks analysis, and multivariate survival analysis can be utilized to assess the effects of UUUR events. This forms the foundation of tactical level modeling in the three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008  3.2. Competing Risks Analysis  Competing risks analysis \(Box 3.2; Ma &amp; Krings 2008b for detailed discussion in the context of PHM and reliability subject of survival analysis. It has a history dating back to 1760 when Daniel Bernoulli studied the risks around the smallpox inoculation. However, modern competing risks analysis draw extensively on survival analysis, which was only initiated in late 1950s but the active research was not conducted until the1970s The application of competing risks analysis in reliability is quite earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 


earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 1967 controversies around the issues of identifiability, which shadows its value when multiple latent risks are dependent.  Three excellent monographs exist for competing risks analysis \(David &amp Moeschberger 1978, Crowder 2001, Pintilie 2006 perspective of survivability analysis, competing risks analysis can be used for analyzing the effects of unpredictable risks by treating the unpredictable events as censored or the effects of latent risks We use the term latent risks to refer to potential failure risks \(but only one of the risks ultimately causes the system failure survivability analysis; this usage of latent risks is totally consistent with the concept of latent risks in competing risks analysis, where these risks are modeled precisely  3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis                                                      Cont' Box 3.1  Another model that is of nearly comparable status with Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model 


Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model AFT e.g., Kalbfleisch &amp; Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  Mean Residual Life \(MRL The mean residual life \(MRL lifetime for a sensor node of "age" t and is defined as   tTtTEtMRL &gt  It can be proved that the following equation holds Klein and Moeschberger 2003             tS dxxS tS dxxftT tMRL tt     where S\(t  Proportional Mean Residual Life Models exp  0 ztmztm T that m\(t|z the covariates, and m0\(t lifetime \(Oakes and Dasu 1990; Chen &amp; Cheng 2005 This model should be particularly useful for PHM Box 3.2. Basics of the Competing Risks Analysis \(CRA  In competing risks analysis \(CRA experiences multiple risks simultaneously, but it may fail from one of the risks only and fail only once. The risk that leads to the failure becomes the cause of the failure Therefore, risk is often used before the failure occurs and the cause is preserved for the afterwards \(Crowder 2001 failure is the defining characteristic of competing risks analysis. It also implies that the system is multivariate from the perspective of risks, but univariate from the perspective of the single failure time and single cause  There are two sets of formulations for CRA in the literature. The first is described with a pair of vectors of random variables the latent \(theoretical David and Moeschberger 1978 used below well as sub-survival functions \(Crowder 2001  There is one and only one cause in the set of k causes for each failure observed.  The elements of C are called risks before failures and causes afterwards. The risks compete for the cause. In reliability analysis, C might be faulty components in a series system and T is the breakdown time of the system; or C might be the failure modes, such as asymmetric vs. symmetric  The sub-distribution function is defined as   tTjCtjF equivalently, the sub-survivor function is defined as   tTjCtjS &gt Obviously jptjFtjS   where   jSjFjCp j represents the marginal distribution of C 


represents the marginal distribution of C  The sub-density function f\(j, t represented by  dttjdStjf The marginal survivor function and marginal density of T can be calculated with kj tjStS 1       1? ==?= kj tjfdttdStf The related conditional probabilities are Pr \(time t |cause j j, t Pr \(cause j | time t j, t t Pr\(time t | cause j caused by j, for example, the survival time distribution of cancer patients in a biomedical experiment. Similarly Pr\(cause j | time t specific age group 9 The latest advances in survival analysis have been centered on multivariate systems. Multivariate survival analysis has two major categories of models: one is multi-state modeling; the other is shared frailty modeling. Multi-state models, although formulated differently in both fields, have been extensively studied in reliability analysis in the context of Markov chain analysis. In contrast, shared frailty modeling seems little known in reliability analysis and PHM. To the best of my knowledge, there is only one reference in the form of monograph, i.e., by Hougaard 2000 analysis in the context of reliability and PHM can be found in Ma &amp; Krings \(2008c 2008d frailty and multi-state modeling, respectively. Given the complexity involved with multivariate survival analysis, any description of actual model is quite involved and hard to fit in a comment box. Box 3.3 only contains a few concepts  The previous univariate survival analysis and, to a lesser extent, the competing risks analysis have several significant limitations. The first limitation is the implicit assumption of single failure or single time-to-event transition. In Figure 2 multiple states and multiple transitions are the norm, rather than the exception. This is a multivariate survival system and multi-state modeling is obviously more appropriate than the univariate or competing risks analysis. Competing risks analysis can only address the multiple risks, but not multiple failures, which further can be dependent with each other. In more general terms, multiple failures with common-events modes represent the typical failure mechanisms in a multivariate system, but both univariate survival analysis and competing risks analysis can help little in modeling the dependences This constitutes the second limitation.  A third limitation is that not all covariates are observable, and some of the unobservable or unobserved may have critical influences on the 'survival' \(or transitions between states nodes. These unobservable covariate factors may create common-risks dependences, and the shared frailty model can capture these kinds of unobservable common-risks While the capability to capture the effects of unobserved or unobservable common-risks is critical for reliability modeling, its criticality to survivability modeling cannot be overemphasized because the quantitative study of this issue does not exist in the existing survivability research Therefore, shared frailty modeling is a critical tool for studying the influences of UUUR events in the tactical level modeling of survivability  Of course, the above limitations discussed equally apply to the traditional reliability theory because traditional reliability theory is based on the binary-state logic \(either failed or operational especially of computer networks, is often characterized by 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


