Applied Data Mining Approach in Ubiq uitous World of Air Transportation  Saybani Mahmoud Reza University of Malaya, Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Kuala lumpur, Malaysia saybani@perdana.um.edu.my  Teh Ying Wah University of Malaya, Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Kuala lumpur, Malaysia tehyw@um.edu.my   Adel Lahsasna University of Malaya, Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Kuala lumpur, Malaysia lahsasna@perdana.um.edu.my    Abstract Noise is a big problem for people living near airports, therefore the public, airport authorities and pilots are looking for ways to reduce the noise in the vicinity of populated areas. Optimal solution would be flight paths that are farthest from those areas, and worst paths are those, that just go above them. There are two classes of paths, namely optimal and non-optimal ones This paper is going to use one of successfully used data mining techniques, namely neural network, which is capable of recognizing patterns. We used some coordinates of various flight paths as input for learning purposes of Neural Network, and defined two classes representing the optimal and non-optimal flight paths The results have shown that this technique is well capable of recognizing the optimal and non-optimal flight paths This technique can be used to reduce the noise  Keywords-Data Mining; Neural Networks; Noise Reduction   I  I NTRODUCTION  Use of Data Mining in the field of aviation is the topic of this paper, and as we know, aviation industry is one of the clients of the ubiquitous computing applications Some of computing devices that are used in today’s aviation are: Electronic Flight Bag, Cockpit Display of Traffic Information, Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, and Head Up Guidance System, to name a few devices that represent the application of ubiquitous computing. In developed countries there are rules that are meant to regulate noise problem, such as definition of routes and time of operation. One effective way to reduce noise is the use of data mining based on the data collected either from GPS, installed on board of aircraft, or from radar. On many busy airports, aircraft are sometimes radar vectored to and from the airport, and very often pilots are required to expedite or reduce their speeds. Both situation leads to more noise.  In this paper, researcher will introduce the use of data mining as a mean to tackle this issue effectively. An application with this concept can be seen as one of the tools in the world of ubiquitous computing  First let us study some definitions that are used in this paper and then researcher will introduce the problem of noise at many major airports. So what is a ubiquitous computing? It is the newest way of computing, it was introduced by Mark Weiser back in 1991, and it is also called calm computing, or invisible computin n der t h i s t e ch n o l ogy  w e do n o t us e  desk tops, laptops or mobile devices; instead the technology is embedded in our life, seamlessly. In another word, ubiquitous computing brings the power of computing to the user, and user is not concerned about the platform, hardware, software and devices We are going to use the terminology vectoring in this paper, and it is according to International Civil Aviation Organization \(ICAO\, defined as Provision of navigational guidance to aircraft in the form of specific 
2009 Fourth International Conference on Computer Sciences and Convergence Information Technology 978-0-7695-3896-9/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCIT.2009.255 1218 


headings, based on the use of a surveillance system [3 a flight path can be seen as a trajectory, and an optimal flight path, in terms of noise reduction is also a trajectory. Data saved by GPS devices represent trajectories  On e of  m a j o r con cern s a t t h e airport is  the problem of noise caused by aircraft because it invades directly on the living conditions of many people who live near the airport. Despite many improvements through utilizing technical development aviation is still associated with noise [5 cco rd in g to  a report by NASA researchers, noise and emissions are causing problems for the growth of air transportation systems and are becoming a bigger problem at the airports i s t h ere f ore a pri o ri t y of m a ny ai rport s t o  reduce the noise level in the surrounding areas near the airport. Legally airports are required to measure the noise caused by aviation in the vicinity of the airports Some of current activities to minimize noise consist of the following points: Measurement, Prevention and Passive sound-proofing.  It is particularly important to analyze the development of noise emissions through long-term measurements, and thereby to check the efficiency of measures which have been implemented to reduce noise [5 o th d u rin g la n d in g a n d tak e o ff noise can be produced in two ways: by expediting the aircraft: more thrust is needed and therefore more noise will be produced and by reducing the speed, the duration of the flight over an area increases, and a prolonged noise in a reduced form can be observed Some airports have started to measure the noise alongside the flight paths by installing noise monitoring terminals. This is a good practice, but it has its own limitations. A strong wind for example can blow the noise away from noise monitoring terminals and causes false data. An FAA/NASA/Transport Canada sponsored partnership by the name of Partnership for Air Transportation Noise and Emission Reduction” studied human response to the low-frequency content of aviation noise, or lowfrequency noise \(LFN\wn the runway during startof-takeoff-roll and thrust reversal after landing. One of major findings indicates that high level of LFN \(less than 200Hz\tance from runways \(in this study 3000 ft\ld be annoying to people living in the vicinity of the airports h ile t h eir s t u d y look ed  at the noise during landing and takeoff, this paper considers downwind, base and final approach path of the flights.  Data collected contain data noises, which are not desirable for the measurement. Data mining can help to identify patterns of behavior of air traffic control’s personnel and pilots. The behavior is sometimes dictated by some facts that influence the decision by persons involved, such as terrain, airspace congestions and weather conditions. Flight path trajectories collected either by Radar or on board GPS can be used for finding clusters of flight paths. These data and those collected by noise monitoring terminals can be analyzed for optimal path, a path that is the furthest away from residential areas, and fulfills the air safety rules. One of major tasks in data mining is the discovery of objects that closely follow similar patterns. Similarity measurements is very important for this operation [8 m i n i n g can h e lp to d e ter m i n e  the characteristics of flown paths or trajectory. The first thing needed for any airport is to find out the best trajectory, this is the one, which conforms to the flight and safety rules exiting at the airport and is the most effective path in terms of noise reduction for the surrounding populated areas. Fig1 shows a map of an airport, where flight trajectories and noise sensitive areas are marked  Fig 1: Flight trajectories and noise sensitive areas at Canberra Airport, Australia, April-June   II  D ATA M INING   The process of extracting hidden clusters, classifiers and association rules is called Data Mining. This paper will focus on the use of data mining in ubiquitous world. To be specific, we are going to use Artificial Neural Network \(ANN\ one of the tools used in data mining. As technology advances, more users are going to use more devices, and more devices mean more data.  When it comes to data, researchers want to search for any useful patterns in the data. Variety of data, implies variety of directions that researcher can look at. Some look at the behavior of the customers others look at sensors and sensor networking but all look at the knowledge that can be gained from the data  
1219 


 III  N EURAL N ETWORK  Artificial Neural Networks have been successfully used in several applications such as speech recognition diagnostic problems, signal processing, computer vision and pattern recognition  In t h e proces s of  neural networking there are many steps involved which are pre-treatment of the data, utilization of the calibration model and validation. The way how ANNs learn is similar to human, they learn by example. An ANN needs to be configured for a specific application such as pattern recognition or data classification through a learning process. Like learning in biological systems ANNs learn by adjusting the synaptic connections that exist between the neurons. The most common type of artificial neural network consists of three layers: input layer, hidden layer and output layer 11  T h e in p u t la y e r rep r esen ts th e ra w i n f o r m atio n  that is fed into the network. The activities in hidden layer depend on the activities of the input units and the weights on the connections between the input and the hidden units. And the behavior of the output units is determined by the activity of the hidden units and the weights between the hidden and output units e e  fig 2             Neural networks consist of models, which are usually referred to as artificial neural networks \(ANNs\ese are basically simple mathematical models defining a function  Each type of ANN model represents a class of such functions. The word network used in 'artificial neural network' comes from the fact that the function f\(x\ is defined as a function of other functions g i x\, which can further be defined as a function of other functions. This can be shown as a network structure. A commonly used type of functions is the nonlinear weighted sum   where K is a predefined function, such as the hyperbolic tangent. It will be convenient for the following to refer to a collection of functions g i as simply a vector  The most interesting part in neural networks is the capability of learning IV  S TATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM  Flying is a very dynamic procedure. While a pilot has to consider many safety measurements such as keeping safe altitude, safe airspeed and correct heading, he/she has also to monitor other vital instruments that are related to the engine work. At the same time he/she has, in case of landing at any airport, to appropriately configure the aircraft for the purpose of landing, this also includes the communication with radar and tower So the workload during a landing is very high for the pilot. Air Traffic Controllers are also very busy with coordinating all aircraft both on the ground and in the air. They also undergo a stress. Busy airports, which are close to residential areas have to consider the noise caused by the aircraft. To reduce the noise, as mentioned above, many things have been done and still airports are undergoing further changes to accomplish the requirements defined by rules and laws. On the airport sketch of major airports areas of sensitive to noise are marked, and pilots and controllers are advised to avoid this area. Very often it is desirable to position an aircraft onto the final approach course prior to a published, charted segment of an instrument approach procedure \(IAP\. Sometimes IAPs have no initial segment and require vectors. “RADAR REQUIRED” will be charted in the plan view of the airport. There are times when a route will intersect an extended final approach cour se making a long intercept desirable. Most aircraft are vectored onto a localizer or Output Layer Input Layer Hidden Layer Fig 2. The structure of ANN  
1220 


final approach, they are told to maintain an altitude until established on a segment of the approach  The question that arises here is how data mining can help to choose a rather desirable flight path. By studying the flight paths of aircraft through the data mining, one can detect the overall behavior of the pilots and air traffic controllers. And with the help of knowledge gained here and other readings at the airport, such as the noise level measured around the flight paths, a warning or advice can be transmitted to both pilots and air traffic controllers to correct the flight path  V  D ATA  In this research we simulated GPS trajectories or flight paths by using the coordinates of various points alongside the flight paths. In total 100 simulations were done. For the purpose of simplicity we considered two classes of flight paths, one representing the range of optimal flight paths, which are both safe and cause less noise, and one class representing the problematic flight paths. Number of inputs 38 \(representing the coordinates of flight trajectories\, number of training data: 80 \(representing 80 flight paths, out of which 40 represent good flight paths and another 40 represent not desirable flight paths\, number of testing data: 20 out of which 10 represent good paths and another 10 represent not desirable flight paths  VI  M ETHODOLOGY  Multilayer Perceptrons \(MLPs\ed by backpropagation learning method are employed to build our classification system which can distinguish between the optimal and non optimal flight paths. Our system is developed using Neural Networks Toolbox included in MATLAB 2009a ANNs is composed of three layers. The first layer \(input layer\poses of 38 neurons, representing the paths coordinates \(x and y\ while the hidden layer composed of 20 neurons Since there is no formal method for choosing the proper number of neurons in the hidden layer, a trial an error procedure was conducted. The last layer \(output layer\ncludes two neurons representing the optimal and non-optimal flight paths classes MLPs are used to overcome the shortcomings of single-layer networks. It is capable of learning nonlinear function mappings. It can learn various types of non linear decision surfaces VII  R ESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS   Table 1 shows the number of training and testing data used for learning and validating phases of our neural network classifier. Our classifier has achieved 100% accuracy on both training and testing data      Table 1. Results of training and testing of phases of neural network  Training data Testing data Optimal flights 40 10 Non-Optimal flights 40 10 Total 80 20 Classification accuracy 100% 100   Fig 3 shows a sketch of training data used in this research. Fig 4 shows a sketch of testing data.  As we can see from the Matrix of Confusion, data mining with its tool artificial neural network could easily identify the two classes. In a well defined and taught model, data mining can assist pilots and air traffic controllers to select an optimal flight path. The information flow can be through different ways. Input data can come from GPS or Radar, after analysis, the result can be displayed on the monitors installed in the cockpit and aircraft’s cabin. A voice command can guide all participants’ pilots and air traffic controller to take the correct action. Here one can see a truly ubiquitous application of computing  Fig 3. A sketch of training data  
1221 


 Fig 4. A sketch of testing data   Fig 5. Matrix of Conclusion VIII  C ONCLUSION   As we have seen, data mining techniques such as neural network can be employed efficiently to build systems that are capable to differentiate between optimal and non-optimal flight paths. Further research can be conducted to solve more complicated cases where some constrains are involved by using multi objective genetic algorithms to consider these constrains simultaneously during the research of the optimal flight paths   R EFERENCES    K. A r k a d y  Z a s l a v sky  Mo h a m e d Med h at  Gaber, "Resource Aware Ubiquitous Data Stream Mining Project 2   U b i q u ito u s  Co m p u t i n g   An In terest in g  New Paradigm." vol. 2009 3 I  C A  O r ga ni z a t i o n  P r ovi si o n o f  na vi ga t i o na l  guidance to aircraft in the form of specific headings based on the use of a surveillance system.," Eighth Meeting of the UAT Subgroup ed. vol. UAT-SWG/08IP/01, I. C. A. Organization, Ed. Langen, Germany ICAO, 2005  Betk e, Gips J Flem i n g  P  T h e C a m e ra mouse: Visual tracking of body features to provide computer access for people with sever disabilities IEEE Trans. Neural System Rehabilitation vol. 10 2002   Mäder    N oi s e m e a s u r e m ent an d prot ect i o n    vol. 2009 Dresden, Germany: Flughafen Dresden GmbH, p. Noise and Environment Protection 6 S A  N A S A   T H E NEXT GENERA T I ON AIR TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM \(NEXTGEN The Current National Airspace System " 2007   A   A  Kat h leen K. Hod g don R obert J  Be rn h a rd Low Frequency Noise Study," The Partnership for Air Transportation Noise and Emissions Reduction Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge2007 8 ail Vlach o s Di m itrio s G u n o p u lo s Eamonn Koegh, "Indexing Multidimensional Time Series The VLDB Journal vol. 15, pp. 1-20, 2006   C I. A i rport  NOIS E A ND F L IG HT P A T H  MONITORING SYSTEM CANBERRA QUARTERLY REPORT ", 2005  I. F. R u s s e l l  N eu ral Netw orks  Wes t Hartf o rd CT 06117: University of Hartford   S  a. D  S i g a nos  N eu ral N e t w orks   Availablefrom:http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~nd/surprise_ 96/journal/vol4/cs11/report.html   A  A  U  S  D e part m e n t of t r an s port a t i o n   Instrument Procedures Handbook 2007   
1222 


i.e., from a set of clusters to another set of clusters immediately covering it. The confidence Factor will be equal to the weight of the arc binding the two nodes.  Such an implication brings into participate two comparable equivalence classes, i.e. of a set of clusters towards another set of cluster including it in the partial order structure  a  Principle for discovering knowledge from FCL Rule1: Discovering meta rule Let C1={A1.., An} and C2={B1.., Bm} two nodes of FCL such as C2 is successors of C1 in the lattice and having as distance d>0 \(weight of the arc\he generated meta-rule will be defined as follows: R : A1,..,An => B1,..,Bm      \(d  Note that, If d=0 this implies that there is no object in common to the two concepts C1, C2. There is no knowledge to discover. T his implies that it doesn't exist no knowledge to generated  Example The meta-rule C5 C2,C5 \(0,83\, is generated starting from the two equivalence classes, whose their respective nodes are Clusters {C5}, {C2,C5} having as distance d=0.83  Rule2: Discovering meta rule  Let C1={A1.., An} and C2={B1.., Bm} two nodes of FCL such as C2 is successors of C1 in the lattice and having as distance d>0 weight of the arc\erated meta-rule will be defined by R : A1,..,An => C1,..,Cq      \(d\ that  {C1,…,Cq B1.., Bm}\\{A1.., An Ci, Ci A1,…An Example The meta-rule C5 C2 \(0,83\generated starting from the two equivalence classes, whose their respective nodes are Clusters {C5}, {C2,C5} having as distance d=0.83  Rule3: Generated meta-rule Let C1={A1.., An} C2={B1.., Bn} and C3={D1.., Dn three concepts such as C2 successors of C1 and C2 successor of C3 having as respectively distance d1 and d2 The generated meta-rule will be defined by R 3: A1,..,An => D1,..,Dn      \(d2*d1  Example The meta-rule C2 =>C2, C3,C4       31% is generated starting from the three equivalence classes, whose their respective nodes are Clusters {C2} {C2,C4}and {C2, C3, C4 } having as distance 0.60 and =0.53 This rule can be simplified as follows C2 = > C3, C4 31 This is interpreted as follows:  31% of the objects which belong to C2 check the properties modeled by the clusters C3 and C4 b  Algorithm for Discovering Fuzzy Association Metarules This algorithm traverses the search space \(FCL\y level to determine the Fuzzy Meta Rules Set \(FMRS\s input it takes the lattice of Clusters FCL and  returns, as output, the list of all Fuzzy Meta Rules Set \(FMRS\d. It works as follows: For each non empty node  FCL in descending we generate all meta-rules with one cluster conclusion \(level 0\. Then, generate the set of all meta-rules with two Clusters conclusions. The same process is applied to generate conclusions with four clusters, and so on until conclusions with n clusters have been generated. The pseudo-code for this algorithm is given in the Figure 6 Note that Niveau_max \(FCL is a function return the number of clusters modeled in the FCL Figure 6  The pseudo-code for Diskovering FMRS algorithm Find_Cluster \(FCL, i, S is a procedure allow to compute the set S containing all set of clusters modelled in the nodes to level i Generate_Rule\(FMRS,FMRS1 is a  procedure permits to determine the set of all rules which one can deduce with part of the FMRS set  by applying the Rule3 Let's note that the FMRS set doesn't contain any redundant rule. Indeed one has the following proposition  Proposition 3 If the system of extraction rules traverses the search space  by level of the lattice of clusters then no rule generated by this system is redundant \(all the generated rules are obligatorily distinct Proof This is due that of a level to another of the lattice the nodes are obligatorily distinct \(by definition even of a level of lattice 3  Deduction Knowledge In this part, we present, in the first, the rule of Transformation of a fuzzy association meta-rule into fuzzy association rule  Generating Meta-knowledge Input Fuzzy Cluster Lattice FCL Output FMRS: Fuzzy Meta Rules Set Begin FMRS  Find_Cluster\(FCL, 0, S For each  subconcept Cj ={y1,…ym}of Ci in S r.premise  r.conclusion={y1,y2,…ym r.CF=1  FMRS FMRS  r  End For  Nmax Niveau_max\(FCL For Niv  :=1  to Nmax-1 do Find_Cluster\(FCL, i, S For Ci={x1,…xm}  in  S   do For each  subconcept Cj ={y1,…ym}of Ci and having \(d>0   r.premise=  {x1,x2,…xn r.conclusion={y1,y2,…ym} \\ {x1,x2,…xn r.CF=d  FMRS=FMRS r  End For    End For End For Generate_Rule\(FMRS,FMRS1 FMRS:= FMRS FMRS1 End 
131 
 


Rule: Transformation of a fuzzy association meta-rule into fuzzy association rule Let A1,A2...,Ap,Aq,…An  be n attributes having respectively l11,l12...,l 1m  l21,l22...,l2 m   lp1   ,lp2... ,l pm  lq1,lq2...,l qm   ln1,ln2...,ln m} as linguistic labels Let I= {C1, C2, …, Cp, Cq , …, Cn be a n Clusters generated by a classification algorithm. Each Ci designates linguistic labels for a given attribute The fuzzy association meta-rule R: C1,..,Cp Cq , …, Cn  CF is transformed in   R1 defined as follow  lq\…, An\(ln\ \(CF such that Ai\(i is the linguistic label for attribute Ai  design the cluster Ci  Example Let us consider Table 4 presents the correspondence of the linguistic labels and their designations for the attributes Salary and Age The meta-rule C5  C2  83 is transformed in Age\(Adult\y\(Medium\    83 VI  H OW THE USER CAN EXPLOIT KNOWLEDGE GENERATED BY THIS APPROACH  As we mentioned at the beginning,  the essential goal of the extraction of knowledge is to help the user to seek information in this data set and to satisfy his needs. In this section we propose different views of knowledge generated According to the user's needs the generated rules can be ordered in several ways Indeed,  while changing our point of entrance view, it is possible to have a different view point on data. So we can model our knowledge with three different views  To order the list of rules by level of Knowledge every level i of knowledge fact to intervene i properties  To order the list of the rules by the characteristics which an object must check so that it can verified a certain properties  To order the list of rules by properties that can have an object knowing that it verifies a p property  Moreover, this approach makes it possible to the user to define a cut on the rules generated by the system to specify until which coefficient CF, it gives confidence to a rule Beyond this value the rule can be considered as weak and will not be taken into account Examples 1 The user wants to know all the objects checking two properties For this, we seek the rules describe in level2; so we find, as example, the following rules Salary\(Low\ => Age\(Young\    80 2 The user wants to know, what are properties that must have an employee, so that he will have a medium salary For this, we seeks the rules having like conclusion Salary\(medium\; so we find the two following rules Age\(young\  =>  Salary\(Medium 65 Age\(Adult\  =>  Salary\(Medium\              83 This we can interpret it as follows: to have a medium salary 83 3 The user wants to know that are properties which an employee can check, if he has a low salary For this we seeks the rules having like premise Salary\(low\; so we find the two following rules Young Salary\(Low\ary\(Medium\, Age\(Adult This we can interpret it as follows:  having the low salary two cases is possible Either this person is young   80% , or Either this person is adult and has medium salary 53 this means that his salary in the superior part of the interval modelled low Salary Remark The fact of having in the same rule Salary\(Low and Salary\(Medium\, is not contradictory but this means that the person has low Salary which are in the overlapping in the part medium Salary. This implies that his Salary is necessarily in the highest zone of the low Salary and in the lowest zone of medium Salary VII  A DVANTAGES OF THE N EW A PPROACH  Different advantages are granted by the proposed approach 1 The definition of the Meta knowledge concept  This definition is very important, since the number of rules generated is smaller: we define the set of meta-rules between the clusters and we can generate automatically the association rules between the data, if we want more details  Also, this concept permits to have a global view on the data set which is very voluminous. Thus, it models a certain abstraction of the data that is fundamental in the case of an enormous number of data  2 The definition of the level of knowledge concept  This approach enables us to hide and to exhibit the details encapsulated while moving between the different levels of the hierarchy during the discovery of knowledge. Thus according to the degree of detail required by the user, we can propose a level of knowledge \(more general level 1 towards most specific level N 3 Extensibility of the proposed approach 1\ Our approach can be applied with any fuzzy classification algorithm  to classify the initial data. 2\We can generate the maximum of knowledge on our initial data set; it’s enough to modify the choice of the classification criteria. These criteria can be chosen by the user like parameters of entry according to the importance of the attribute in its applicability. 3\We can classify our data according to different criteria and obtain different clusters which generate a different set of Meta knowledge VIII  V ALIDATION OF THE PROPOSED APPROACH  To validate the approach proposed, we chose:  1\he FCM \(Fuzzy C-Means\ algorithm for a fuzzy classification of the data set, and 2 Ganter algorithm fo r th e  construction of the lattice. We currently develop this approach with JAVA language About complexity: 1\ The space complexity, whatever the number of database records, is thus reduced to a constant value, i.e., about 1 O This characteristic is fundamental in 
132 
 


the treatment of the large database in knowledge discovery 2\ The temporal complexity includes the following costs  Construction of the attribute’s clusters  Building the fuzzy lattice For cluster’s construction, the complexity of fuzzy clustering algorithms is about 2 NC O where N corresponds to database table records number and C is the maximum number of clusters. For fuzzy lattice construction, temporal complexity of lattice construction algorithm is about 2 N O  IX  C OMPARISON WITH OTHER APPROACHES  The approach that we propose in this paper offers a set of knowledge. The number of rules is really defined by the enduser. Indeed, in the first step of our approach, the user must specify the number of clusters to generate by FCM algorithm to classify his data Example In our case, the user specified a number = 3 for the attribute Salary and a number = 2 for the attribute Age Consequently we obtain 5 clusters  In our approach, each cluster corresponds to a predicate The lattice constructs, will be a lattice with N levels, N is equal to the number of clusters. By definition of the lattice level 0 and level N contain 1 only node. The Level i contains a number of node equal to the number of overlapping between i clusters. This number will be equal to the maximum to C i N  The rules are generated by level: of the level i at the level i+1. A rule is defined of a node of level i towards a node of level i+1. The maximum number of rules which can be generated is, in consequence, equal to C i N  C i N 1   We have N levels in the lattice The maximum Number of rules  1 0 N i i  C i N  C i N 1   Example In our case N=5 Let us calculate the maximum number of nodes for each level The level 0 contains 1 node. The level N contains 1 node C 0 5 1 \(level 0 C 1 5 5  \(level 1 C 2 5 10 \(level 2 C 3 5 10 \(level  3 C 4 5 5 \(level 4 C 5 5 1 \(level 5    Let us calculate the maximum number of rules which can be generated  level 0 -> level 1 :   1*5 =    5 rules   \(maximum level 1 -> level 2 :   5*10 = 50 rules  \(maximum level 2 -> level 3 : 10*10 =100 rules  \(maximum level 3 -> level 4 : 10* 5 =    50 rules \(maximum In conclusion, we will have to the maximum 205 rules  As we show, what is important is that in our approach this number of generated rules, is independent of the size of the data. It rather depends on the number of generated clusters by the phase of classification. This number of clusters is given in entry by the user and it is the user who defines the linguistic labels for his clusters Let's note that another solution can be possible, is to use an algorithm of classification that didn't have like entry the number of clusters generated: in this case, the algorithm proposes the best classification for the set of data and the user specifies the linguistic labels for every class The comparison with the existing approaches can be made another level, indeed the algorithms proposed don’t take into account any semantics of the data, and to our knowledge these approaches don't treat the problem of knowledge utilization. All the researchers focused themselves on the reduction of the set of rules of a variety of hundreds of rules, by proposing the concept of metadata, or on the method of visualization of this great number of rules Our principle in this approach is to propose an extraction of knowledge based on the ties semantics of the data which is in our opinion more interesting, that the one existing which bases on the form \(syntax\jects To our opinion, it is not a question to compare the results according to the number of generated rules which is distinctly lower in our case, obtained in the other approaches and those obtained in our approach. Rather it is necessary to see the degree of utilisability of generated knowledge. Indeed what it is the interest to propose several approaches of knowledge extractions, whereas the user cannot benefit to better exploit these gigantic data In this approach we proposed different views according to which the user can exploit his data. In addition the fact to allow the user to choose attributes to classify and the numbers of generated clusters allows the user according to his needs to fix these choices. Indeed, the user can \(1\ apply any classification algorithm, and \(2\ate the maximum of knowledge on its initial data set:  it’s enough to modify the choice of the classification criteria. These criteria can be chosen by the user like parameters of entry according to the importance of the attribute in its applicability X  C ONCLUSION  In this paper, we presented a new approach that permits to extract knowledge combining classification and FCA methods. Generally, the researchers in this field use FCA based on Lattice theory or classification. All these methods generate a big number of association rules that are not easily assimilated by the human brain 
133 
 


To resolve this problem, we proposed a new KDD model. It consists of two steps: the first organizes the database records in homogeneous clusters having common properties which permit to deduce the data’s semantic. This step consists of TAH’s and MTAH generation of relieving attributes. The second permits to Discovering Knowledge. It consists to deduce the Fuzzy  Cluster Lattice corresponding to MTAH lattice generated in the first step, then traverse this lattice to extract the Meta Knowledge \( Set of fuzzy associations meta-rules on the clusters \, and in end deduce the rules modeling the Knowledge \(Set of fuzzy associations rules on the attributes\While basing on the hierarchical structure offered by the lattices, we proceed to discover the Knowledge in a hierarchical way. Thus, according to the degree of detail required by the user, this approach proposes a level of knowledge and different views of this knowledge Moreover, this solution is extensible; the user is able to choose the fuzzy method of classification according to the domain of his data and his needs This solution reduced considerably the number of generated rules, offered a better interpretation of the data and optimized both the space memory and the execution time As futures perspectives of this work, we mention 1\o test our approach on several the large data set, and 2\ to define a new intelligent method of evaluation of requests which takes into account the Meta knowledge and/or the knowledge base generated by our KDD model XI  R EFERENCES  1  P. Berkhin, “Survey of clustering data mining techniques“, Technical report, Accrue Software, 2002 2  M. Zaki, “Mining Non-Redundant Association Rules”, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, No 9, 2004, p. 223–248 3  G. Stumme, R.Taouil, Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, and     L. Lakhal Intelligent structuring and reducing of association rules with formal concept analysis”, Proceedings of KI’2001 Conference, Vienna Austria, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2174, SpringerVerlag, September 2001, p. 335–350 4  N. Pasquier “Data Mining : Algorithmes d'Extraction et de Réduction des Règles d'Association dans les Bases de Données”, Thèse Département d’Informatique et Statistique, Faculté des Sciences Economiques et de Gestion, Lyon, 2000 5  R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and Swami A., “Mining Association Rules between sets of items in large Databases”, Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conference on Management of Data, Washington USA, June 1993, p. 207-216 6  R. Agrawal, and R. Skirant. “Fast algoritms for mining association rules”. In Proceedings of the 20th Int'l Conference on Very Large Databases, pages 478-499, June 1994 7  N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R.Taouil, and L. Lakhal,          “ Efficient Mining of Association Rules Using Closed Itemset Lattices Information Systems Journal, vol. 24, no 1, 1999, p. 25-46 8  M. J. Zaki, and C. J. Hsiao, “ CHARM : An Efficient Algorithm for Closed Itemset Mining ”, Proceedings of the 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, Arlington, April 2002, p. 34-43 9  G. Stumme, R. Taouil, Bastide Y., Pasquier N., and L. Lakhal, “Fast Computation of Concept Lattices Using Data Mining Techniques BOUZEGHOUB M., KLUSCH M., NUTT W., SATTLER U., Eds Proceedings of 7th Intl. Workshop on Knowledge Representation Meets Databases \(KRDB’00\Berlin, Germany, 2000, p. 129-139 10  G. Stumme, R.Taouil, Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, and     L. Lakhal Computing Iceberg Concept Lattices with TITANIC”, J. on Knowledge and Data Engineering \(KDE\ vol. 2, no 42, 2002, p. 189222 11  S. Ben Tekaya, S. Ben Yahia, and Y. Slimani. “Algorithme de construction d`un treillis des concepts formels et de détermination des générateurs minimaux”, ARIMA journal, Novembre 2005, Numéro spécial CARI'04, pages: 171-193, 2005 12  T. Hamrouni, S. Ben Yahia, and Y. Slimani. “Prince : Extraction optimisée des bases génériques  de règles sans calcul de fermetures In Proceedings of the Intl. INFORSID Conference, Editions Inforsid Grenoble, France, pages : 353--368, 24-27 May 2005 13  B. Ganter, and R. Wille, Formal Concept Analysis: mathematical foundations. \(translated from the German by Cornelia Franzke Springer-Verlag, Berlin-Hei delberg 1999 14  T.Thanh, H.Siu Cheung, and C. Tru Hoang, “A Fuzzy FCA-based Approach to Conceptual Clustering for Automatic Generation of Concept Hierarchy on Uncertainty Data.” ,CLA 2004, pp. 1–12 ISBN 80-248-0597-9 15  L. Zadeh. Fuzzy sets. Inform ation and Control, \(69\338-353, June 1965 16  M. Sassi, M., A. Grissa Touzi, and H. Ounelli, “ “Interpretting Fuzzy Clustering Results based on Fuzzy Formal Concept Analyis”, IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems. Imperial College London, UK, 2007 17  A. Grissa Touzi, M. Sassi, and H. Ounelli,  “Using Formal Concept Analysis for Flexible Querying Optimization”, 23nd International Conference on Computers and Their  Applications, \(CATA’08 Mexico, Avril 2008 18  A. Grissa Touzi, M. Sassi, and H. Ounelli, “An innovative contribution to flexible query through the fusion of conceptual clustering, fuzzy logic, and formal concept analysis”, International Journal of Computers and Their Applications. Volume. 16, N°. 4, pp 220-233, December, 2009 19  M. Sassi, A. Grissa Touzi, and H. Ounelli, “A Fuzzy Linguistic Database Summarization Approach”, Fuzzy Systems Conference IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems.   Hong Kong, Juin 2008 20  J.C,  Bezdeck,  R.Ehrlich,  and  W.Full,  "FCM: The Fuzzy  C-Means Clustering Algorithm", Computers and Geoscience, vol. 10, no. 2-3 pp. 191–203, 1984 21  N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R.Tou il, and L.Lakhal, “Pruning closed itemset lattices for association rules”, Proceedings of 14th International Conference Bases de Données Avancées, Hammamet Tunisia, 26–30 October 1998, p. 177–196 22  M. J. Zaki, “Generating Non-Redundant Association Rules Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,Boston, MA, August 2000, p 34-43 23  Y. Bastide, R.Taouil, N. Pasquier, G. Stumme, and L.Lakhal Mining frequent patterns with counting inference”, SIGKDD Explorations, vol. 2, no 2, 2000, p. 66-75 24  B. Ganter, “Two basics algorithms in concept analysis”, Technical report, Darmstadt, 1984 
134 
 


  10 assume there is only one right answer  225  Remains objective so as not to be hinde red by irrelevant, outside influences Coaches and Mentors 225  Coaches and mentors team members and less experienced systems engineers to develop the breadth and depth of their competencies by giving specific positive and negative feedback for developmental purposes 225  Recognizes \223high potential\224 individuals by understanding and identifying the presence of skills and traits needed to be successful in the field  225  Challenges individuals to do their best work by giving assignments that build their capabilities  225  Asks questions that challenge assump tions, validate conclusions, and explore thought processes  225  Promotes a team culture that places a gr eater priority on the performance of the system than the performance of its subsystems Delegates \225  Delegates responsibility and authority to the lowest possible levels while retaining control of subsystem requireme nts and system integration functions 225  Builds confidence among team member s by delegating responsibility and decision-making authority to subsystem leads and then accepting the decisions they make without resistance or second-guessing  Ensures Resources are Available 225  Ensures that the team has the right tools, knowledge, and resources in order to get the job done 225  Keeps abreast of current analytical tools and models by knowing where to find them, when to apply them, and how to use them 225  Utilizes data archiving tools and processes to organize, simplify, and distribute information effectively.  Ensures that the information team members use to make decisions and coordinate activities is reliable and trustworthy.  Uses formal channels of communication to place reasonable limits on the number of people from whom information is gathered  Table 7 Attitudes and Attributes Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Remains Inquisitive and Curious 225  Is naturally inquisitive and curious, and is largely driven by that curiosity.  Is fearless and has an authentic and persistent desire to understand how everything works and how it relates to everything else.  Can quickly connect dots and identify weak spots 225  Seeks to understand the big picture and interrelationship of the parts.  Moves without boundaries from one topic to another, to discover what else needs to be known, what might be overlooked 225  Actively explores the technical issues, concepts, and lexicon of subsystem disciplines that are less familiar and comfortable Seeks Information and Uses the Art of Questioning 225  Asks difficult questions of discipline or subsystem experts regarding boundaries conditions, and assumptions to ensure continuity across all systems and to ensure that the proposed solution is an integrated solution and fundamentally makes sense 225  Asks questions, at appropriate times and in various ways, to ensure consistency of answers and to reveal if others unde rstand what constitutes system success Probes an area if inconsistency is revealed 225  Asks questions artfully.  Uses a series of questions that build upon each other to help identify the root of a problem or solutions 225  Asks \223Why?\224  \223Why did we decide to do it that way?\224  \223What were the alternative solutions, and did we do trade studies that helped us determine why this was the best solution?\224 225  Confident in knowing what they do know a nd willing to state it and admit what is not known; seeks specialists to fill in missing pieces 


  11 Advances Ideas 225  Restates, reframes, and clarifies others 222 questions to ensure understanding among group members by questioning and measuring an idea against system requirements 225  Fosters open two-way discussions.  Brainstorms with others to solicit various viewpoints.  Allows and encourages people to state opinions while listening for connections and disconnects in logic 225  Engages the team by explaining how th e solution or approach was reached Gains Respect Credibility, and Trust 225  Uses respectful tone, words and body language 225  Follows through on commitments and serves as an advocate for the team 225  Demonstrates understanding and appreciation of the challenges others face 225  Earns the respect of team members by demonstrating personal integrity Conducts business in an honest and tr ustworthy manner by avoiding deception and treating team members fairly 225  Sees trust of self and others as a perv asive element required to achieve success 225  Earns trust and respect of others by having a strong understanding of the system\222s technical requirements and assigns work based on the individual\222s skills and abilities.  Understands that not everyone is an \223A player\224 225  Lets team members do their job.  Tells them what has to be done, but not how to do it Possesses SelfConfidence 225  Willing to speak up, regardless of who is present to ensure the most technically sound decision is made for the good of the overall system 225  Demonstrates a positive attitude and exhibits confidence 225  Sits back and listens to group discussions while building models and connections and/or identifying disconnects Has a Comprehensive View 225  Takes responsibility for the whole life-cycle the whole system and all its parts Understands the whole job and that it is never done 225  Strikes a balance between what must happen to obtain success and what must not happen to avert failure Possesses a Positive Attitude and Dedication to Mission Success 225  Encourages a success oriented environment by displaying passion, excitement and enthusiasm about the work and th e challenges faced by the system 225  Is dedicated to mission success by worki ng until the job is successfully completed even if that means working long hours to ensure the job is done 225  Creates a \223can do\224 atmosphere by providi ng positive feedback and is empathetic toward team members.  Encourages others with their \223can do\224 attitude Is Aware of Personal Limitations 225  Seeks guidance from experts.  Knows what they know and what they don\222t know and seeks others to fill in missing data 225  Acknowledges technical limitations to others.  Does this with ease Adapts to Change and Uncertainty 225  Presses on with the project and ensures that the implications of change are addressed throughout the entire system in the face of ever-changing requirements  225  May make decisions with incomplete or imperfect data 225  Understands that change is inevitable and takes appropriate actions quickly.  May assemble other technical experts to brains torm various avenues and approaches to support the change 225  Remains calm under pressure. Looks at things pragmatically and understands what's going on. Doesn't over-react Uses Intuition Sensing 225  Uses both intuition and sensing when evaluating a problem or making a decision Does not rely solely on data.  May use of gut feeling" if data is inconclusive 225  Moves concepts and ideas easily through artificial boundaries.  Uses intuition and the senses to penetrate the system and discover or synthesize solutions to a problem Is Able to Deal  with Politics, Financial Issues, and Customer Needs 225  Is politically savvy.  Understands the larger forces at work.  Studies the political and financial issues and impacts 225  Shares and uses knowledge and expertise that shapes the political and financial environment in positive ways 


  12 225  Balances tasks and deliverables against resources and designs processes that save time and money 225  Possesses the ability to in terface with the customer and successfully lead discussions to create an understanding of system status across various levels, both up, down and across  Table 8 Communication Theme, Competencies, Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Listens Effectively and Translates Information 225  Sees the system from various perspectives Listens and acts as translator between parties \(subsystems, Project, vendors and other customers necessary information from others 225  Communicates project status to management and other key internal and external stakeholders.  Clearly communicates requirements to providers of the subsystem elements 225  Is an excellent listener.  Is keenly aware of what is being said and of omissions Listens for themes that continue to surface.  Then there comes a point where the SE will begin to penetrate by asking questions.  If questions are not adequately answered, the SE will begin to focus on the potential soft spot 225  Listens to identify critical elements or parameters of the problem.  Listens for information that leads to connections be tween system elements and information that disrupts connections 225  Clarifies and simplifies ideas under discussion by offering and/or requesting summation" statements Communicates Effectively Through Personal Interaction 225  Consistently communicates progress and gains understanding from others on what challenges and successes are faced by the systems design.  May meet face to face on a daily, sometimes hourly basis to ensure everyone is in the loop understand the systems requirements 225  Prefers personal interaction over e-mail Uses face-to-face interaction as a primary communication channel to hear concerns, share information, build rapport, create buy-in and create relationships within a team 225  Communicates in a clear and concise manner 225  Facilitates effective communication in t eam meetings and throughout the project by regularly interacting with people on the team and getting them together to ensure everyone is up-to-date  Facilitates an Environment of Open and Honest Communication 225  Welcomes divergent opinions by creating an atmosphere where team members feel the freedom to openly express their opinions.  Encourages and respects differing opinions in order to drive convergence on decisions 225  Promotes open, honest communication by asking questions, protecting proprietary information, protecting minority opinions, and incorporating valuable ideas that are shared in the system design Identifies and takes steps to remove communication barriers that are unique to particular individuals or groups 225  Patiently listens to each of the team memb ers/discipline experts in order to assure that everyone gets heard--that all divers e and dissenting opinions are considered Listens to all who want to speak, does not communicate irritation and does not shut people down 225  Effectively facilitate teams, meetings and disagreements.  Asks clarifying probing and penetrating questions to ensure all information is out on the table 225  Demonstrates accessibility and approach ability by having an open door policy  Uses Visuals to Communicate Complex Interactions 225  Graphically pulls together ideas, issues and observations to better understand and explain all systems and interfaces and to solve complex problems.  Uses visuals such as Venn diagrams, models, pictures, charts, metaphors, archetypes, and other relevant representations, to communicate complex problems or to display the 


  13 interconnections of sub-elements 225  Keeps everyone involved by keeping accurate records of big and small picture aspects affecting the system and distributing information in advance Communicates Through Story Telling and Analogies 225  Uses personnel experiences to build conn ections and provide explanations by using engineering and non-engineering stories and analogies.  For example creates analogies from histor ical events, everyday experiences and \223life lessons\224 to better explain concepts and ideas to others 225  Shares experiences and \223lessons learned\224 with others to support future systems design Is Comfortable with Making Decisions 225  Makes decisions in a confident and timely manner when appropriate \226 with or without complete or optimal information \226 allowing team members to maintain forward progress on their assigned tasks 225  Carefully monitors the impact of deci sions on system performance, backtracking and changing direction if necessary.  When the team's forward progress is not at stake, the SE may choose to postpone decision-making and engage in more detailed analysis 225  Stays on point until ideas are heard, rec ognizes when enough data is gathered to make a decision, and then moves on. Willing to revisit decision if new data warrants it 225  Makes difficult or unpopular decisions, keeping the best interest of the system in mind, weighing the potential risks to team cohesion and interpersonal relationships against system performance  Table 9 Problem Solving and Systems Thi nking Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Identifies the Real Problem 225  Identifies the critical problem to be solved by asking questions and identifying the key requirements 225  Recognizes what is technically right among many good ideas by viewing a problem across system boundaries and co mparing each design to the other 225  Frames the problem in a logical way and identifies resources required to solve the problem efficiently 225  Solves problems with the team by listening for the issue, pinpoints problem areas makes recommendations, and then steps out.  Avoids side trips and unnecessary minutiae and focuses on important issues Assimilates Analyzes, and Synthesizes Data 225  Assimilates and distills large quantities of data and ensures all of the data is on the table to solve a problem or make a decision.  Ensures decisions made are supported with data 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters, prioritizes the parameters, then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution 225  Has the ability to rapidly recall data 225  Approaches and solves problems in a systematic manner by using tools processes, procedures in order to find solutions Thinks Systemically 225  Looks across the entire system and facilita tes trades and compromises to get a balanced design.  Ensures that the integrity of the system as a whole does not suffer because of over optimizing any of the smaller pieces 225  Sees multi-view representations of sy stems to understand how the pieces fit together and interact. Visualizes systems in 3-D. Draws a picture in his or her mind, or on paper 225  Is able to look deep enough into a problem without losing focus on the big picture.  Sees the big picture while at the same time demonstrating an overall awareness of the details 225  Breaks the problem down into smaller manageable parts 225  Understands how the system works, what it was designed to do, its functions and 


  14 requirements. Is able to analyze the systems data. Traces implications of a problem in a step-by-step manner across the system Has the Ability to Find Connections and Patterns Across the System 225  Integrates and provides a connection between the various engineering segments of the project.  Is able to identify c onnections from separate elements of the project that others would not notice and brings these connections to the team's attention as a means to assist in solving underlying issues 225  Examines and explores the implications of how technical decisions being made affect the bigger system architecture Sees the ripple effect of changing requirements or making changes to any element of the system 225  Able to see system interfaces. Identifie s the impact that changes to one subsystem are having--or might have--on other sub-systems.  Locates and corrects sub-system 'disconnects' or 'inconsistencies' that are having a negative impact on system performance Sets Priorities 225  Sets technical priorities in order to maintain the balance for the problems at hand while achieving system requirements Keeps the Focus on Mission Requirements 225  Is focused on developing a system that meets the end-item product objectives and does not lose sight of this while integr ating the pieces of the system into the whole system 225  Studies, understands, and articulates the project\222s overall objectives.  Knows what the system must do and be in order to accomplish its objectives 225  Sets technical priorities with principal investigator and subsystem engineers to achieve system requirements Possesses Creativity and Problem Solving Abilities 225  Enjoys and is energized by fully concentrating on a problem for long stretches until solutions are formed and implemented. Possesses passion for problem solving 225  Takes the initiative to solve the problems 225  Solves problems with the team by listening to the issues, pinpointing problem areas, making technical recommendations; may help implement the solution 225  Does not adhere to rigid rules or formulas for system design, but may create new ideas and approaches that are necessary to deal successfully with system constraints Validates Facts Information and Assumptions 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters.  Prioritizes the parameters then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution by examin ing system and subsystem operations in minute detail.  Recognizing that seemingly minor miscalculations can lead to signifi cant problems in system performance 225  Questions all assumptions that go into the design 225  Looks for, and anticipates, problems or issu es in the system in places that may not be covered with the right kind of data to make a decision 225  Looks for answers that may not be readily apparent from just looking at the data alone.  Does not rely solely on data Remains Open Minded and Objective 225  Receptive to hearing diverse varying opinions.  Is willi ng to re-think/re-work an issue or to change direction when new information or a better idea is presented 225  Evaluates decisions objectively.  Maintains flexibility by avoiding 'ownership' of a particular strategy or point of view Draws on Past Experiences 225  Draws from his or her hands-on experiences to develop the proper feel for succeeding on future projects, knowing when something looks "ri ght" versus "not even close\223 from past successes and failures 225  Solves problems with a balance of innovative developments and proven heritage products.  May rely on experience and ex isting design as guides, but sees each opportunity as a canvas to design new solutions 225  Uses experience, history, intuition, and se nsing in order to assess the situation and develop a solution Manages Risk 225  Uses past experiences to anticipate pot ential problems that may impact system performance 225  Identifies the key indicators and methods of testing for each type of problem 


  15 225  Develops mitigation strategi es for addressing the problems, should they arise 225  Is risk savvy. Understands that risk is perpetual and needs to be managed  Table 10 Technical Acumen Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Possesses Technical Competence and Has Comprehensive Previous Experience 225  Shares his or her project experience, a nd acts as a reliable resource to the team and serves as the \221go to\222 person 225  Demonstrates the depth of technical knowledge and expertise necessary to perform, manage, and coordinate work-related activities 225  Possesses a strong, fundamental understanding of engineering principles along with a cross-disciplinary background 225  Engages specialists for their t echnical knowledge and abilities 225  Demonstrates ability to focus on details while keeping the big picture in mind.  Is able to shift focus between the two with ease 225  Uses an iterative process to refine the design to accomplish the system requirements Learns from Successes and Failures 225  Shares with others lessons learned.  Lessons come from a strong base of engineering experiences acr oss the full life-cycle 225  Documents and studies the successes and failures of both the current and previously developed systems.  Uses this information to make decisions that reduce risk and maximize the probability of success 225  Is willing to learn from past failures as well as successes.  Understands both are important  


  16 Table 11 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator \(MBTI Mental Processes and Orientations [25 Natural energy orientation   Extraverted \(E Face is directed towards the OUTER world of activities, excitements, people, and things 200  Instinctively search for facts and logic in a decision situation 200  Act first, think/reflect later 200  Feel deprived when cutoff from interaction with the outside world 200  Usually open to and motivated by outside world of people and things 200  Enjoy wide variety and change in people relationships Intraverted \(I Face is directed inward to the INNER world of thoughts, interests, ideas, and imagination 200  Think/reflect first, then act 200  Regularly require an amount of "private time" to recharge batteries 200  Motivated internally, mind is sometimes so active it is "closed" to outside world 200  Prefer one-to-one communication and relationships Way of perceiving or understanding and taking in information  Sensing \(S The Sensing side of our brain notices the sights sounds, smells and all the sensory details of the PRESENT It categorizes, organizes, records and stores the specifics from the here and now. It is REALITY based, dealing with "what is." It also provides the specific details of memory and recollections from PAST events 200  Mentally live in the Now, attending to present opportunities 200  Using common sense and creating practical solutions is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall is rich in detail of facts and past events 200  Best improvise from past experience 200  Like clear and concrete information; dislike guessing when facts are "fuzzy Intuitive \(N The Intuitive side of our brain seeks to understand interpret and form OVERALL patterns of all the information that is collected and records these patterns and relationships. It speculates on POSSIBILITIES  including looking into and forecasting the FUTURE  It is imaginative and conceptual 200  Mentally live in the Future, attending to future possibilities 200  Using imagination and creating/inventing new possibilities is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall emphasizes patterns, contexts and connections 200  Best improvise from theoretical understanding 200  Comfortable with ambiguous, fuzzy data and with guessing its meaning Way of forming judgments and making choices and decisions  Thinking \(T The Thinking side of our brain analyzes information in a DETACHED objective fashion. It operates from factual principles, deduces and forms conclusions systematically. It is our logical nature  200  Naturally notices tasks and work to be accomplished 200  Easily able to provide an objective and critical analysis 200  Accept conflict as a natural, normal part of relationships with people Feeling \(F The Feeling side of our brain forms conclusions in an ATTACHED and somewhat global manner, based on likes/dislikes, impact on others, and human and aesthetic values. It is our subjective nature 200  Instinctively employ personal feelings and impact on people in decision situations 200  Naturally sensitive to people\222s needs and reactions 200  Naturally seek consensus and popular opinions 200  Unsettled by conflict; have almost a toxic reaction to disharmony Action orientation towards the outside world     Judging \(J A Judging style approaches the outside world WITH A PLAN and is oriented towards organizing one's surroundings, being prepared, making decisions and reaching closure and completion 200  Plan many of the details in advance before moving into action 200  Focus on task-related action; complete meaningful segments before moving on 200  Work best and avoid stress when keep ahead of deadlines 200  Naturally use targets, dates and standard routines to manage life Perceiving \(P A Perceiving style takes the outside world AS IT COMES and is adopting and adapting, flexible, openended and receptive to new opportunities and changing game plans 200  Comfortable moving into action without a plan plan on-the-go 200  Like to multitask, have variety, mix work and play 200  Naturally tolerant of time pressure; work best close to the deadlines 200  Instinctively avoid commitments which interfere with flexibility, freedom and variety 


  17 Figure 1 MBTI Types Occurring in SEs Studied Across the Agency                                    Figure 2 Preliminary MBTI Results for JPL\222s Highly Regarded Systems E\ngineers   ESFP Performer/Entertainer   ESTP Maneuverer/Promoter   ENTP Inventor/Improvisor    ENTJ Director/Commandant   ISFP Performer/Composer   ISTP Maneuverer/Operator  INTP Inventor/Designer   INTJ Foreseer/Mobilizer   ESFJ Provider/Caretaker   ESTJ Overseer/Supervisor   ENFP Proponent/Messenger   ENFJ Foreseer/Mobilizer  ISFJ Provider/Nourisher   ISTJ Overseer/Inspector   INFP Proponent/Advocate  INFJ Foreseer/Developer NF 3 NT 56 SJ 15 SP 26 SE MBTI types represented across the agency 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


