  1 Achieving Flexible Waveform and Data Routing with the Programmable Space IP Modem Ian A. Troxel, Steve Vaillancourt and Paul Murray SEAKR Engineering, Inc 6221 S. Racine Circle Centennial, CO 80111 303.790.8499 ian.troxel, steve.vaillancourt, paul.murray}@seakr.com  Abstract 227Providing flexible satellite communications through frequency- and wavefo rm-agile onboard processing is an emerging trend for missions such as the Air Force\222s Operationally Responsive Space \(ORS routing features that seek to improve network flexibility and performance by going beyond traditional \223bent pipe\224 platforms are being leveraged to meet the objectives of 
ORS.  The Programmable Space Internet Protocol Modem PSIM\ integral part of a flexible satellite communications mission set to launch mid 2009.  The PSIM provides data processing for interfacing to existing ground terminal waveforms and recovers the datagrams for onboard routing.  All component s interface with the PSIM via standard Layer-2 Gigabit Ethernet and a modified Layer-1 physical interface that is radia tion-tolerant for the mission\222s 10-year geosynchronous orbit.  This paper provides a description of the PSIM system design and highlights the system\222s performance and flexibility 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I 
NTRODUCTION 1  2  B ACKGROUND AND R ELATED R ESEARCH 1  3  PSIM  A RCHITECTURE 3  4  I NTEGRATE P AYLOAD A RCHITECTURE 5  5  C ONCLUSIONS 6  
R EFERENCES 6  B IOGRAPHIES 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  The Programmable Space IP Modem \(PSIM extend Internet communication capability to users who are currently \223off the grid\224 in remote areas where extending landline connectivity is cost prohibitive.  The venture is supported by the Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations \(JCTD\ffice but is fully commercially funded.  The first PSIM mission is planned to launch on Intelsat\222s IS-14 in the second quarter of 2009.  The packetswitched nature of the PSIM is the next step in the decades 
long paradigm shift away from traditional \223bent-pipe\224 satellite communication systems [1 b en t p ip e system s the satellite acts purely as a relay where it simply receives RF signals, frequency shifts, and amplifies the signal \(and noise\r transmission.  The transmitted data is echoed 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1207, Version 1, Updated October 31, 2008 directly back down to the users and no bitstream recovery functions are performed on-boa rd the spacecraft.  Such a system generally causes user traffic on different beam designations to be segregated because connectivity is not provided between beams.  Theref 
ore, a significant terrestrial infrastructure is often required to coordinate system control and to connect all user terminals to the terrestrial network especially when using spot b eams.  The challenges become even more complicated when considering that several standard waveforms currently exist with additional waveforms under development.  The scalability of such systems is typically limited because data must be routed through a centralized location regardless of the data\222s source or destination.  A packet switching system is the only viable means to eliminate this lack of flexibility and the onboard switching features provided by PSIM will enable much needed inte r-beam and inter-waveform connectivity while greatly improving network performance and scalability 
This paper outlines the PSIM processor and highlights its performance and flexibility.  The organization of the remainder of the paper is as follows: Section 2 provides additional background informa tion and describes related research on the topic.  Section 3 highlights the PSIM architecture and Section 4 desc ribes a conceptual overview of the IP-centric payload.  Section 5 concludes the paper 2  B ACKGROUND AND R ELATED R ESEARCH  The key to the success of the PSIM communication philosophy is the leveraging of commercial networking technology that is ubiquitous and well proven to solve the 
problem at hand.  The Internet Protocol \(IP\e the de facto standard for all terrestrial network communication systems except within the most high-end supercomputer facilities.  At its core, IP is simply an addressing protocol that provides a means for data to be routed from one user to another without the need for the network routing components to understand the specifics of the user data or the underlying networks over which the data will travel Also, the IP addressing standard is well proliferated across the Earth and extending this addressing scheme to routing features in space is a logical extension of the time-tested standard.  Making a redundant addressing scheme based on the medium through which data will travel was feasible for 


  2 bent-pipe systems but is count erintuitive if the spacebourne asset through which the data w ill travel has onboard routing capability.  Also, the virtual-ci rcuit interconnect philosophy IP provides has been demonstrated to improve network scalability and throughput.  Th e decentralized routing features provided by IP allow highly efficient multicast data routing and ease the implementation of fine-grained Quality of Service \(QoS  The other protocols associated with IP-based networking provide additional advantages for satellite communications that have proven successful through widespread use on the Internet.  The IEEE 802.3 Ethern et standard defines both a physical-connection layer and a logical-connection layer known as the media access control/data-link layer.  While the physical-layer standard does not directly apply to satellite communications, the data-link layer provides error detection and correction \(EDAC\ink flow control features likely to prove bene ficial especially for links  IP layer such as the Transmission Control Protocol \(TCP\de end-toend EDAC features vital to long distance communications TCP provides a means to ensure the correct and in-order delivery of user data with built in mechanisms to initiate retransmission as required.  As an endpoint protocol, TCP also provides a means to control data flow and interconnect congestion by adjusting the size and rate at which messages are exchanged without the need to involve other network resources   Ot her t r ansport prot ocol s such as t h e User Datagram Protocol \(UDP\overhead at the expense of reliability [5 o t h ers su ch as th e Stream  Control Transmission Protocol \(SCTP\ng improved reliability and functionality with an increase in overhead 6 e k ey to th e IP p r o t o co l h i erarch y is th e ab ility fo r users to interchange protocols above the IP layer to meet their needs without affecting the underlying network features.  Flexibility is critical to extending the Internet to aerospace platforms and much interest has developed in examining the best ways to incorporate these standard protocol   Numerous IP-based commercial network components have been deployed or are under development for aerospace systems.  One of the first commercial networking technologies adapted to an aer ospace system is Avionics Full-Duplex Switched Ethernet \(AFDX\s based on IEEE 802.3 Ethernet and u tilizes dual-link redundancy dedicated bandwidth and QoS to create a deterministic data network for safety critical applicati Thi s ruggedi zed version of Ethernet is part of the ARINC 664 Specification which defines how commercia l networking technology will be incorporated into future aircraft systems to form the next-generation Aircraft Data Network \(ADN switched nature of AFDX will contribute to the reduction of aircraft wiring weight and bulk and increase data communication throughput by at least a factor of 20 compared to previous bus-based ADNs.  AFDX was primarily developed by Airbus Industries for the A380 and has also been adopted by Boeing for the 787 Dreamliner Commercial Ethernet and IP technology is being infused into spacecraft communications systems at two general levels.  Much like the AFDX system, switch-based networking solutions are bei ng targeted to replace busbased intra-spacecraft communi cation systems to improve performance and reduce cost.  Previous projects have investigated using standardized protocols such as RapidIO\256  SpaceW ire 10] \(adapted from IEEE 1355 Express\256 [11] as inte rconnects between spacecraft subcomponents.  However, Ethe rnet\222s ubiquitous nature and extensive commercial development history suggests further investigation into its use as a spacecraft subcomponent interconnect is warranted.  A project at NASA Goddard 12] and other industry-base d ventures to create a Space Gigabit Ethernet \(SGE have shown success i n  adapting commercial devices to the harsh space environment.  As evidence of th is trend, an Ethernet switch has been deployed on the Columbus module on the International Space Station to provide networking between science experiments and personal comput  Commercial networking technology has also been gaining traction in the inter-spacecraft communication domain.  As previously described, the benefits of extending IP-centric networking into space systems are apparent and several programs are beginning to build out such a network.  The Cisco Router in Low Earth Orbit \(CLEO\ment was the first mission to successfully transfer IP-based data through a satellite link using commercial networking equipment The t h ree-day experi m e nt  dem onst r at ed that IP can be used to send command and control instructions from a virtual mission operations center to a satellite payload via the Internet.  While CLEO focused on easing the integration of satellite mission control operations other projects are focusing on using IP networking to extend the Internet into sp ace for user data transfer The European Satellite Communication Network of Excellence \(SatNEx\s a project under development by a European-based consortium th at is seeking to build a unified European satellite communication network that will likely include communications protocols based in part on Internet st The program  i s  current l y  speci fy i ng all aspects of the future network with the goal of beginning to deploy spacecraft in the 2015 to 2020 timeframe.  The US Department of Defense funded Transformation Communications Satellite \(TSAT\rogram is being designed to improve the global communication capabilities of the US m currently under development with initial prototype designs based on Internet protocols demonstrated in 2007 at the conclusion of the program\222s risk reduction phase.  Current estimates suggest the program will begin deploying spacecraft in the 2013 to 2016 or later timeframe.  IP-based satellite communication is also being proposed by researchers at 


  3 NASA\222s Goddard Space Flight Center as a means to deploy a command and data relay backbone between the Earth and the moon in the 2015 to 2020 timeframe  Missions such as the Programmable Satellite Transceiver PST are m eet i ng t h e front end processi ng needs of ORS-type missions and are being leveraged for emerging data packet routing features that seek to improve network flexibility and performance by going beyond traditional 223bent pipe\224 platforms.  It is de sirable to field a system that is compatible with a range of ground terminal standards in order to reduce expense, enable rapid development, and expedite the adoption of the deployed services.  The flexibility of Field Programmable Gate Array \(FPGA devices within SEAKR\222s Application Independent Processor  and t h e PST, upon whi c h t h e PSIM i s  developed, provides dynamic hardware that can be adapted to dynamically respond to changing mission requirements and can be used to reconfigure the PSIM to change protocols and other communication standards in situ Analysis has confirmed that such standards as DVB-RCS ViaSat\222s LinkWay\256 and LinkStar\256, and the Joint IP Modem \(JIPM\ can all be implemented on the PSIM and IP datagrams can be routed between protocols on the spacecraft with the use of mu ltiple PSIMs for the traffic loading outlined in the PSIM mission \(shown in Figure 1 The PSIM and router have been designed to handle these full-duplex data rates and thus congestion is not a problem for the system.  Of the severa l protocols analyzed, ViaSat\222s LinkWay TDMA waveform is the first to be developed on the PSIM and will become the inaugural ground link protocol to be adopted for the system.  The next section details the PSIM architecture and describes the benefits realized when utilizing onboard waveform recovery and IPbased switching 3  PSIM  A RCHITECTURE  The first-generation PSIM payload will provide increased performance and flexibility be yond currently deployed space-based IP-centric system s with routing between all signals captured by the antennas.  As shown in Figure 1, the platform is composed of two enclosures that include the PSIM and the Space IP Router \(SIPR\ the Cband and the two Ku-band antennas are routed to the PSIM which manages physical interconnectivity within the system for all bi-directional wavefo rm and intra-spacecraft links The PSIM provides the on-board data processing for interfacing to existing ground terminal waveforms and recovers IP-based datagrams for on-board routing.  It is desirable to field a system that is compatible with a range of waveform standards in order to reduce ground terminal expense, enable a rapid experimental program, and facilitate the rapid adoption of IP-based se rvices.  Due to the need to construct IP datagrams onboard the aircraft, the PSIM intrinsically provides improved signal-to-noise ratios over conventional communication systems.  Because the PSIM regenerates all waveforms, signal-to-noise ratios are improved by 3dB per link which translates into ground terminal cost savings.  Also, the PSIM can allow narrowband TDMA, FDMA standards, as well as other spread spectrum standards such as CMDA, OFDMA, or frequency hopping to be implemented within the entire 36 MHz full-duplex bandwidth ava ilable to each transponder The PSIM is designed to be able to realize any of several waveforms and protocols from different ground terminal manufacturers through the use of SEAKR\222s FPGA-based Application Independent Processor architect    Up/Down Convert Up/Down Convert Up/Down Convert KU Band 1 C Band Programmable Satellite IP Modem IP Router 70MHz 36MHz Ch 1 Ch 2 Ch 3 Ch 4 4 MHz KU Band 2 Ch 5 Ch 6 Ch 7 Ch 8 Up/Down Convert Up/Down Convert Up/Down Convert KU Band 1 KU Band 1 C Band C Band Programmable Satellite IP Modem IP Router 70MHz 36MHz Ch 1 Ch 2 Ch 3 Ch 4 4 MHz KU Band 2 KU Band 2 Ch 5 Ch 6 Ch 7 Ch 8  Figure 1 226 PSIM Mission Description  


  4 The AIP architecture supports flexible processing by coupling compute-intensive FPGAs with a powerful PowerPC-based general-purpose processor.  This adaptable architecture provides flexibility when tailoring the system design to meet the needs of various missions and allows for in-situ reconfigurability to vastly improve system fault tolerance.  The flexible nature of these devices allows the system to adapt to late-developing requirements or changing on-orbit conditions such as algorithm updates and degraded mode requirements due to catastrophic hardware failure The PSIM flight configuration of the AIP, as shown in Figure 2, includes power modules, a PowerPC-based processor, an analog module connected to the transponders and four FPGA modules.  Waveform processing is performed on the FPGA modules and each module does so in a triple-redundant, majority voted fashion, as shown in Figure 3 The first payload version will include fully-redundant components for the SIPR and PSIM that are cross strapped as shown in Figure 4.  In this manner, the system can survive at least one failure of each enclosure and still maintain full routing capability  Figure 2 226 Flight Enclosure of PSIM As previously described, SGE is used to interconnect the SIPR and PSIM components.  Each of these interfaces is implemented to be physically separated within each component for increased fault tolerance.  All power distribution channels and antenna, command, and telemetry signals are also connected to the PSIM in a physically separated and redundant manner The SIPR provides radiation-tolerant IP datagram routing and network management services for the payload.  The router processes packet control information from the transponder ports and directly interfaces to the PSIM via SGE \226 a standard Layer-2 Gigabit Ethernet and a modified Layer-1 physical interface that is tolerant to the space environment St andard IP prot ocol s are used t o  provi de services that are consistent with terrestrial routers.  Since user traffic is encapsulated with the IP packets, the decision of how to implement end-to-end reliability is left to user For example, choosing the Transmission Control Protocol TCP\agram Protocol \(UDP\or some advanced Forward Error Correction \(FEC scheme affects a single user\222s end-to-end data reliability and performance but not the inherent performance or reliability of the PSIM The system will improve communication link utilization by enforcing QoS guarantees base d on open-standard protocols as well as multicast routing to reduce the number of overall packets transferred on the system.  Also, the SIPR implements the Border Gateway Protocol to establish network connections and to route Internet traffic from user sites that may include \223network s of networks.\224  Therefore endpoints in the network need not be specialized, singleended ground stations but can instead include commercial routers to host local networked user resources.  In this manner, this system will extend the full capability of the Internet into space which no othe r system currently deploys  FPGA FPGA FPGA I/O Mezzanine RCC Majority Voter  Figure 3 226 FPGA Module with Triple-Majority Voting Scheme  


  5  Figure 4 226 PSIM System Architecture  4  I NTEGRATE P AYLOAD A RCHITECTURE  A synergistic technology being developed at SEAKR Engineering seeks to translat e legacy satellite interconnects to Gigabit Ethernet and used in combination with the PSIM could greatly improve the spacecraft interconnect.  Device interconnects within spacecraft systems have traditionally included a mixture of custom or aerospace-specific standards that make system integration challenging.  As the variety and performance requirements of sensors and related components increases, findi ng space-qualified components that both meet mission objectives and can be readily interconnected will become increasingly more difficult IP-based and related communication protocols have become the de facto standard for terrestrial networking systems and leveraging the success of decades of commercial development for use in aerospace systems has the potential to reduce development costs while improving system performance.  Several programs have shown success infusing commercial interconnect standards such as IP into aerospace systems to alleviat e development problems and the Reconfigurable Space Netw ork Interface Card \(RSNIC is one of the latest [3  RSNIC Mezzanine 265P  GigE Legacy I/O  RSNIC Main Board  I/O Interface Buffers  GigE PH Y FPG A  Packet Accelerator  Figure 5 226 RSNIC Functional Block Diagram   IP Route r  Redundant  IP Route r  PSIM  Primary Ku Ku C  1  1  PSIM  Ku Ku C  SG SG SG SG 2 2  1  1  2 2  100VD Cmd&TlmA  Cmd&TlmA  100VD Cmd&Tlm Cmd&Tlm tes tes tes tes 


  6 RSNIC is a Naval Research Lab funded project to build the infrastructure to provide IP datagram connectivity between components within the sp acecraft to reduce system integration costs.  RSNIC primarily performs IP encapsulation of data transferred between instruments onboard processors and solid-state recorders.  RSNIC strips off or adds the IP packetization of command data destined for onboard systems.  RSNIC endpoints are modular and customizable interface cards that allow new and existing payloads to easily integrate within the IP-based interconnect as provided by PSIM As shown in Figure 5, the customizable interface card includes a legacy-specific mezzanine card that can be configured to translate between custom or common interface standards and IP and a main board that provides traditional IP networking connec tivity.   Both the mezzanine card and main board designs incorporate FieldProgrammable Gate Arrays \(FPGAs\ance capability and flexibility.  Coupl ed with RSNIC technology the PSIM improves the functionality, performance and scalability of advanced satellite payload systems such as the example shown in Figure 6.  The IP-centric nature of this example system eases payload integration and provides efficient data routing to the warfighter Up/Down Converter IP Modem and Router Payload Payload Payload RSNIC OBP/SSR RSNIC RSNIC RSNIC Direct or Tactical Downlink LAN Ka Ku C X  Figure 6 226 Example RSNIC and PSIM Enhanced Mission  5  C ONCLUSIONS  The routing capability provided by PSIM will improve the flexibility, performance and scalability of satellite communication systems by routing traffic between a variety of beams and waveform protocols.  The ubiquitous nature of IP-based protocols has driv en their adoption in aerospace systems with the PSIM being the latest in several programs to adopt commercial networking technology.  Also, the IP addressing standard is well proliferated across the Earth and extending this addressing scheme to routing features in space is a logical extension of the time-tested standard Future PSIM missions will continue to expand upon the router\222s current capabilities with additional QoS and security features planned  R EFERENCES   W   Buerkle, M. Trefz, \223Fas t-Packet vs. Circuit Switch and Bent Pipe Satellite Network Architectures,\224 Proc. KaBand Utilization Conf Sorrento, Italy, Sept. 15-18, 1997 2   Stallin g s  Data and Computer Communications 6th ed., Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2000   I. Troxel M Fehri nger, AJ R obert s, and P M u rray  223Unifying Spacecraft Payloa d Interconnects Using the Reprogrammable Space Network Interface Controller,\224 Proc. Military and Aerospace Programmable Logic Devices \(MAPLD\ Conference Annapolis, MD September 15-18, 2008 


  7  D Com e r Internetworking with TCP/IP: Principles Protocols, and Architecture 5th ed., Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2006  D Kar, \223Network Measurem ent and Path Characterization Using User Datagram Protocol,\224 Journal of Computing Sciences in Colleges  19 4\l 2004, pp. 321-328   A. Jungm ai er, E. R a t hgeb, M Schopp and M  Tuxen 223SCTP \226 A Multi-link End-to-End Protocol for IP-based Networks,\224 AEU International Journal of Electronics and Communications  55 1 7 C. Cain i, R. Firrin cieli, M. March ese, et al., \223Tran s p o r t Layer Protocols and Architectures for Satellite Networks,\224 International Journal of Satellite Communications and Networking  25 1\ober 2006, pp. 1-26   D Schaadt 223AFDX AR INC 664 C oncept Desi gn Implementation and Beyond,\224 SYSGO AG White Paper  2007   D. B u eno, C C onger, A. George I Troxel  and A Leko 223RapidIO for Radar Pro cessing in Advanced Space Systems,\224 ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems  7 1\ber 2007, pp. 1-20  B. Cook and P. W a lker, \223SpaceW ire Plug-and-Play An Early Implementation and Lessons Learned,\224 Proc Infotech Aerospace Conference and Exhibit Rohnert Park, CA, May 7-10, 2007   J. M a rshal l and J R obert son 223Increasi ng Perform ance and Removing Bottlenecks in RC Space Processing,\224 Proc. Aerospace Conf Big Sky, MT, March 3-10, 2007  E. W e bb, \223Ethernet for Space Flight Applications,\224 Proc. Aerospace Conf Big Sky, MT, March 9-16, 2002  R. Schm idhuber, \223I nternational Space Station Welcomes Aboard ProCurve Networking,\224 EADS Astrium White Paper, Toulouse, France, January 2008   L W ood W  Ivanci c, D. Hodgson, et al 223Usi ng Internet Nodes and Routers Onboard Satellites,\224 Journal of Satellite Communica tions and Networking  25 2 March/April 2007, pp. 195-216  M Bousquet L. Castanet, G. Corazza, et al 223SATNEX, the European Satellite Communications Network of Excellence,\224 Proc. European Union Forum on Cooperative Scientific Research Brussels, Belgium 2005   F Yegenogl u D. Voce and D. Gokhal e 223TSAT Advanced Network Services and Routing Architecture,\224 Proc. Aerospace Conf Big Sky, MT, March 4-11, 2006   J. Gal Edd, \223Evol ut i on of t h e Lunar Net w ork,\224 Proc Aerospace Conference Big Sky, MT, March 1-8, 2008 18  S. Min g er an d T. Gen r ich  223Pro g r am m ab l e Satellite Transceiver for Responsive Space,\224 Proc. Aerospace Conference Big Sky, MT, March 1-8, 2008   I. Troxel M Fehri nger, and M  C h enowet h 223Achi e vi ng Multipurpose Space Imaging with the ARTEMIS Reconfigurable Payload Processor,\224 Proc. Aerospace Conference Big Sky, MT, March 1-8, 2008 RapidIO is a trademark of the RapidIO Trade Association Inc. and PCI Express is a registered trademark of PCI-SIG LinkStar and LinkWay are trademarks of VIASAT, Inc. and all other trademarks are propert y of their respective owners B IOGRAPHIES  Ian A. Troxel is the Future Systems Architect at SEAKR Engi neering, Inc.  Ian earned his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Florida in 2006, where his graduate research focused on developing fault tolerance a nd application management services for embedded space systems.  Ian\222s research interests include fault tolerance strategies for nextgeneration processor systems and developing characterization methods for ra diation acceptance testing of advanced processors Paul Murray is the IRIS Program Manager at SEAKR Engineering, Inc Paul received his BSEE from LTU in 1996.  During his 12 year tenure at SEAKR, he has managed the development and production of many development programs that include: solid state data recorders, high performance pr ocessors, software defined radios, and IP routers.  Paul was also responsible for leading SEAKR\222s research and development group which focused on developing new products and technologies for space applications Steve Vaillancourt is a senior hardware design engineer and the PSIM technical lead at SEAKR Engineering, Inc.  Steve received his M.A.Sc.\(EE\ University of Ottawa \(Ontario, Canada\n 1980.  With SEAKR since 2003, he has been involved with several high-speed on-board processing projects.  He was manager for the development of digital boards for point-to-multipoint microwave radios at Proxim Corp in Long Beach CA from 2000 to 2003 Since 1982 he was at TRW in Redondo Beach CA where he was the technical lead on several IR&D, on-board processor, solid-state recorder and router projects  


  8  P. C ousot and R  C ousot Abst r act Int e rpret a t i on  a Unified Lattice Model for Static Analysis of Programs by Construction or Approximation of Fixpoints”. In Proceedings of 4 th Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages pages 238-353, 1977   E.M  C l arke, O. Grum berg, and, D.A. Pel e d, “M odel  Checking”. MI  G B r at  M   Gheorghi u D. Giannakopoulou, “Verification of plans and procedures,” submitted to IEEE Aerospace’08   G B r at M  Gheorghi u, D. Gi annakopoul ou Verification of plans and procedures,” submitted to IEEE Aerospace’08  Hergert  Paul M i ssi on Anom al y Dat a base \(1986  2004\elease Four," Prepared for the NASA Engineering for Complex Systems Program, April, 2004   B IOGRAPHY  Dr. David Bell is Director and Senior Scientist at the Research Institute for Advanced Computer Science, located at the NASA Ames Research Center Prior to working at NASA, David worked for ten years at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, and previously held an appointment at MIT where he led a research program in the Center for Innovation in Product Developmen t.  David is co-inventor of multiple patent and patentpending information system technologies, including XML query technologies related to NETMARK and the NASA Program Management Tool, and extensible blog technology called Sparrow Web; as well as co-inventor of distributed knowledge management software called Eureka.  David received his Ph.D. from Cornell University with a dissertation on the dynamics of product development processes  Dr. Brat received his Ph.D. in Electrical & Computer Engineering in 1998 \(The University of Texas at Austin USA\. He has specialized on the application of static analysis to software verification. From 1997 to June 1999, he worked at MCC where he led a project that developed static analysis tools for software verification. In June 1999, he joined the Automated Software Engineering group at the NASA Ames Research Center and focused on the application of static analysis to the verification of la rge software systems. He codeveloped and applied static analysis tools based on abstract interpretation to the verification of software for Mars missions at JPL, various ISS controllers at MSFC and the ISS Biological Research Project at the NASA Ames Research Center   


9 when attempting to adaptively cancel an interference with time-varying relative geometry, such as would occur with a spacecraft orbiting a distant planet Compensation of Antenna Pointing Errors Pointing error is also a significant source of gain loss for the large antennas of the DSN at 32 GHz. Presently a complex monopulse pointing system is used to aid in pointing the DSN 34-meter antennas at 32 GHz. The blind pointing requirement on the antennas is driven by the pull-in range of this monopulse system requiring elaborate pointing models and calibration.  Use of a focal plane array eliminates the need for a monopulse system entirely, and greatly reduces the requireme nts on blind pointing accuracy and associated calibration effort Figure 8 shows the gain of the 70-meter antenna for signals appearing off bore-site when a single corrugated horn is used as the feed, and for th e case of an 81-element array used with a re-imaging magnification factor of three. The response for the single horn feed effectively is that of a uniform aperture, resulting in a 3-dB beamwidth of approximately 7.5 mdeg. Theref ore in practice the antenna must be pointed, without feedback, to approximately this accuracy before an active pointi ng control system such as a monopulse system or CONSCAN can be employed to actively point to the beam peak.  On the other hand, the response of the focal plane array to off-axis signals is quite forgiving, as illustrated by the black curve on the figure. In this case the response is not limited by the inherent beamwidth of the antenna, but rather by the field of view of the array. For this particular magnification and array size pointing errors of greater than +/- 20 mdeg can be accommodated  by the array with essentially no gain loss These pointing requirements are consistent with typical 8 GHz \(X-Band\ues, allowing operation of the 70-meter antenna at 32 GHz with no requirement for an additional active pointing system or improvements to the present blind pointing performance of the antenna. While illustrated here for the 70-meter antenna, exactly the same advantages exist for application of the FPA on a smaller, 34-meter DSN antenna. Relaxation of antenna pointing requirements is considered a major advantage of the focal plane array over a single horn feed 3  S UMMARY AND C ONCLUSION  The operational advantages of a focal-plane array receiver for use on large antennas of the Deep Space Network have been discussed. Examples of gravity compensation of the 70-m antenna during 32-GHz operation has been used to illustrate these advantages. In addition, an adaptive 


10 algorithm for optimal combining of focal-plane array signals in a noisy environment, including interference, has been described and evaluated via simulation. Finally mitigation of antenna pointing errors via focal-plane array processing is illustrated, providing additional benefits over the use of a single receiving horn A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES    V Vi l n rot t e r and Fort Dem onst r at i on and Eval uat i on of the Ka-Band Array Feed Compensation System on the 70-Meter Antenna at DSS 14," TMO PR 42-139, JulySeptember 1999, pp. 1-17, November 15, 1999    V Khai ki n, E. M a jorova, Yu. Pari jski j, M  Parnes, R   Shifman, V. Dobrov, V. Volkov, and S. Uman, “7x8 Element MMIC Array at 26-30 GHz for Radio Astronomy Applications,” in Proceedings of International Conference Perspective on Radio Astronomy: "Technologies for Large Antenna Arrays", The Netherlands, April 1999, pp.171182V  3 er, P. W In itial Stu d i es o f Array Feed s fo r th e 70-Meter Antenna at 32 GHz," TDA PR 42-104, OctoberDecember 1990, pp. 50-67, February 15, 1991  4 b r iale, W  A., M. J. Britcliffe, an d M. Bren n e r Gravity Deformation Measurements of NASA's Deep Space Network 70-Meter Reflector Antennas," IPN PR 42147, July-September 2001, pp. 1-15, November 15, 2001    L. Stutzm an and G.A Thiele  Antenna Theory and Design John Wiley and Sons Inc., New York, pp 210-218   V. Khai ki n, V. Dobrov, M  Parnes, V Vol kov A Golovkov, Yu. Rybakov, “Mu lti-channel array receiver modules for a radio telescope at 26-30 GHz,” in Proceedings of URSI/IEEE XXVII Convention on Radio Science, pp.176-178, Espoo, Finland, Oct.2002  7 ro tter, an d M. Srin iv asan Larg e Array Ch an n e l Capacity in the _Presence of Interference,” IPN PR 42-164 Jet Propulsion Laboratory, February 15, 2006  8 ro tter, V. A., Ro d e m i ch E. R., Dolinar, S. J., “Realtime combining of residual carrier array signals using ML weight estimates,” IEEE Tran sactions on Communications Volume 40, Issue 3, March 1992, pp. 604-615 B IOGRAPHY  Victor Vilnrotter  M'79, SM’02 received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering and communications theory from the University of Southern California in 1978.  He joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif., in 1979, where he is a Principal Engineer in the Communications Systems Research section. His research interests include el ectronic compensation of large antennas with focal-plane arrays, adaptive combining algorithms for large antenna arrays, optical communications through atmospheric turbulence, and the application of quantum communications to deep-space optical links. He has published extensively in conferences and refereed journals, and has received numerous NASA awards for technical innovations   Michael Britcliffe earned the Bachelors of Science degree in Applied Physics from California State University Northridge in 1988. He has worked at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1989 He is currently Technical Group Supervisor of the Antenna Microwave and Low Noise Amplifier group in the Ground Communications section   Daniel Hoppe received the BS and MS degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin Madison in 1982 and 1983, and the Ph.D. from UCLA in 1994. In 1984 he joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA where he is currently a Principal Engineer. At JPL he has developed software for the solution of electromagnetic scattering problems, designed microwave components for the large antennas of the Deep Space Network, and antennas for spacecraft applications Recently he worked on diffraction modeling of large spacebased telescopes. Dr. Hoppe is a part time lecturer teaching courses in electromagnetics and antennas at UCLA 


 11 R EFERENCES     Reddy, M.K. and S.M. Reddy 223Detecting FET Stuck-Open Faults in CMOS Latc hes and Flip-Flops,\224 IEEE Design and Test of Computers Vol. 3 , No. 5 , pp. 17-26, October 1986   2 R Mad g e , M. Vilg is, a nd V. Bhide, "Achieving Ultra High Quality and Reliability in Deep Sub-Micron Technologies using Metal Layer Configurable Platform ASICs", MAPLD 2005    Kewal Sal u ja, \223Di g i t a l Sy st em Fundam e nt al s, Lect ure 11\224, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin Madison    Yu W e i  Papos ng  M oo Ki t Lee Peng W e ng Ng C h i n  Hu Ong, \223IDDQ Test Challenges in Nanotechnologies: A Manufacturing Test Strategy\224, Asian Test Symposium 2007. ATS apos;07. 16 th Volume , Issue , 8-11 Oct. 2007 Page\(s\211 \226 211  NASA GSFC Advi sory NA-GSFC 2004-06   Dan El ft m a nn, Sol o m on W o l d ay and M i nal  Sawant  New Burn In \(BI\ethodology for Testing of Blank and Programmed Actel 0.15 \265m RTAX-S FPGAs MAPLD 2005   M i nal Sawant Dan El ft m a nn,  W e rner van den Abeel an John McCollum, Solomon Wolday and Jonathan Alexander 223Post Programming Burn-in of Actel O.25um FPGA\222s\224 MAPLD 2002  B IOGRAPHY   John worked 2 years at Faichild R&D on bipolar switching performance specifically platinum dopedlife time control and the development of Ion Implantation.  He worked 15 years at Intel developing Intel's first bipolar PROM, Ion Implantation, the world's first 16K DRAM, as well as 64K and 256K DRAMs.  Mr. McCollum developed Intel's first dual layer metal CMOS technology for the 386 microprocessor.  He co-founded Actel and worked the last 20 years on process, antifuse and flash cell development and FPGA Architecture at Actel.  He holds over 50 patents   covering Process Technology, Antifuse and NVM technology, FPGA Architecture, Analog Processing and Radiation Hardening.  He has presented numerous papers at IEDM, MAPLD, CSME, SPWG, and the FPGA Symposium. He is currently a Fellow in the Technology Development Department 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


