Plenary Paper : The Rise of Exaflood Optics George Gilder Forbes Telecosm Conference, USA Abstract ECOC 2009, 20-24 September, 2009, Vienna, Austria Paper 1.0.1 978-3-8007-3173-2  \251 VDE VERLAG GMBH Optics is now in its exaflood stage: with hundreds of exabytes of data swarming around worldwide webs of glass and light. An exabyte is 10 to the 18th, a billion gigabytes, a million billion big books of text or fifty thousand textual Libraries of Congress, enough to sati sfy the reading needs of the world\222s population for a century. Or one exabyte is just a hundred million high definition movies, har dly enough to satisfy a million teenagers for a year. For the past two decades has raged a war between the rise of Exaflood optics with its video tides and the persistence of a communications infrastructure based on vocal an d textual trickles. The trickleware has all gone mobile and wireless. Today the planetary utility of optical glass increasingly carries high definition images, virtual worlds, games, and telephonic telepresence, in a global sensorium, pushing the system toward the Zettabyte era of 10 to 21st. This requires a new optical architecture. It\222s first manifestations are inclement and cloudy for the industry. Most optics companies are following an uncreative, modular strategy, fitting components into existing systems. The real opportunity in optics is to create entirely new systems that adapt to a new age of optical entanglement appropriate to the age of telepresence. Don't solve problems, pursue opportunities 


  and physical file resources. An instance of FRB tree is shown in figure 1  Figure 1  The composition of FRB tree Virtual file resources consist of virtual directories and virtual files. Virtual directory is a directory that doesnt exist on a storage device, but just in the memory. The root of the tree is a virtual directory. Virtual file is a file that doesnt exist on a storage device either. A virtual directory can have virtual directories and virtual files as its children, which make up of the basis of this tree Physical file resources consist of physical directories and physical files, which are provided by some servers, such as HTTP servers or FTP servers. They all have URLs and can be accessed by using specific client tools 001\000 Directory Broker is a virtual directory which is mapped from a physical directory existed on storage devices. Likewise File Broker is a virtual file that is mapped from a physical file. The directory brokers and file brokers both belong to File Resource Broker \(FRB\. With FRB, file resources can be integrated into a tree, which provides unified view and access to these resources B  File Resource Locating As the file resources are organized into a FRB tree, each file resource has a unique path to the root. We can locate a file resource in this tree by the path. If we intend to access a file resource, its URL is required. The URL can be got from a service called Naming Service, which maintains a mapping relationship between FRB paths and URLs A file will inherit the mapping relationship from its parent automatically, which means that if the files parent is mapped to a FRB path /Path, then this file is automatically mapped to a full FRB path /Path/Name in which the term Name represents for the files name This mapping can be changed by the users, so a consistency semantic is required in the implementation of FRB C  File Resource Accessing Once the URL of a file resource is got, we can access it using some specific client tools. However, in our design, a unique access interface is provided instead of various client tools. With a unique interface, few requirements are imposed on the application programmer, so that applications can be easily modified \(or written from scratch\ to execute efficiently On internet, the authentication, communication protocols access mechanisms of file resources are various. These heterogeneous file resources are wrapped as files on local file system. The users can access the file resources just as accessing the local files. This mechanism provides transparency to users so that the complexities of the underlying communication protocols and access mechanisms The consistency of data is handled by the remote file system. If one process attempts to read a file while another process is attempting to write it, or two processes attempt to write the same file, the read-write and write-write conflicts are resolved by the underlying accessing mechanisms of remote file systems. FRB doesnt implement consistency semantics in order to keep itself simple and high performance III  I MPLEMENTATION  This section describes the part of the implementation in detail Figure 2  The framework of FRB As shown in figure 2, the FRB system is composed of four modules: user interface, file provider, connection manager and naming service. User interface, file provider, connection manager make up the client, which is running on the users computer. We will describe the details of each module below A  User Interface The tasks of user interface are handling the users operation and feed back the result. It interacts with the user, converts the users operation to a group of commands, and does it through the interface provided by File Provider module The interface could be either graphic user interface or command line interface. A web interface could also be implemented, but the operations on local file system through a web browser are restricted by the operating system. Here we 
290 
290 
282 
282 


  wrote a graphic user interface in Java, which is shown in figure 3 below Figure 3  The graphic user interface in Java This graphic user interface is composed of five parts   Local file resource view: on left-top and shows the file resource on local file system   Public file resource view: on left-middle and shows public file resources on remote file systems, which need no authentication before accessing   Private file resource view: on left-bottom and shows private file resource on remote file systems, which need an authentication before accessing   File list view: on right-top and shows detailed file information, such as file name, type, size, last modified time, etc   Task view: on right-bottom and shows the detailed status when the data of file resources is being accessed With the graphic user interface, users could visit heterogeneous file resource easily. This user interface is now used as the GUI of Corsair [1  a nd i t ha s  b e e n  d o w nl o a d e d over ten thousand times. It is used above 1900 times by users every day. The whole number of registered users in Corsair is 4215 at present B  Naming Service As described in section 2, file resources are organized into a tree. The tree is maintained by the naming service Naming service runs on a separate server and keeps the data of the users FRB tree. It communicates with the file provider module, receives the commands, does corresponding operations and returns the result. Naming service stores only the information of virtual file resources and FRBs. The information of each physical file resource can be generated from its parent, so with the information of a FRB node, all its childrens information can be generated Naming service also provides consistency semantic. If a user wants to change the FRB tree, the client must send the commands to the naming server and wait for the result. The naming server is unique globally, which ensures the consistency This implementation may cause the naming server to be the bottleneck of the system. Other architectures such as masterslave architecture or DNS redirection could be implemented to resolve this problem, but here we dont implement it as the operations to change the FRB tree is not frequent C  File Provider The file provider is the primary module of this system. It provides a unified accessing interface for integrating heterogeneous file resources Figure 4  Architecture of File Provider As shown in figure 4, file provider can be divided into two levels: abstract interface and some file providers The abstract interface provides some common file accessing interfaces in Java. These interfaces, which are partly shown in table 1, can be divided into 3 types   Meta-data access interface. This file descriptor-based interface provides unified access to the meta-data of remote files. It permits the user to view and edit the meta-data of file resources   Data access interface. This interface is based on file stream. It provides an input/output stream for reading/writing a file. Read and write modes are provided as parameters of the interface   Naming manage interface. This interface permits the user to establish or remove mapping between virtual resource and physical resource TABLE I  T HE P ORTIONS OF ABSTRACT INTERFACE  Type Function Description Metadata access interface  getName Get the files name mkdir Create a directory rename Rename the file delete Delete the file getURL Get the files URL getPath Get the files path in FRB tree 
291 
291 
283 
283 


Type Function Description Data access interface getInputStream Get an input stream of a file for reading file content getOutputStream Get an output stream of a file for writing the file Naming manage interface mount Map a physical resource to a virtual resource unmount Remove the mapping between the physical resource and the virtual resource  As shown above, there are three types of interfaces: metadata access interface, data access interface and naming manage interface. The first two types communicate with the physical storage devices which hold the file resources through connection managers, while the last one only communicates with the naming server Under the abstract interface is several file providers, each of which provides an implementation to access file resources of that type. Now we have implemented three types of file providers: local file providers, ftp file providers and http file providers. These types have covered most of the file resources on internet We implemented these file providers by accessing local file system and sending/receiving data by socket. We dont choose to use some existing libraries because we need to make some optimizations to enhance the performance. For instance, we reuse the connections to transfer data in order to avoid too many connect and disconnect operations. This will be described below in section 3.4 Three file providers are described here: local file provider ftp file provider and http file provider The implementation of local file provider is easy, for local file system provide good support for file accessing. Every abstract interface can be implemented by invoking a local file system interface The implementation of ftp file provider is different. Instead of invoking an underlying interface, most of the abstract interfaces are implemented by sending commands and receiving replies. If data transfer is needed, a data connection will be established, which will be closed when all data has been transferred. If an error occurred, a corresponding exception will be thrown by this provider, which should be caught by the user interface TABLE II  T HE I MPLEMENTATION OF FTP  F ILE P ROVIDER  Function FTP Commands mkdir MKD rename RNFR, RNTO delete DELE getChildren LIST getInputStream RETR, REST Function FTP Commands getOutputStream STOR, APPE  The implementation of http file provider is almost the same as ftp file provider. Every abstract interface is implemented by sending requests and receiving responses. The meta-data and data are transferred through one connection. No extra connection is needed. If an error occurred, a corresponding exception will be thrown by http file provider. Unlike ftp, many file access operations such as renaming a file are not supported by http. If a file access operation is not supported, an exception will be thrown too There is a difference between local file provider and http/ftp file provider. The meta-data of http/ftp files is cached if the meta-data of a http/ftp file is accessed for the first time, it will be cached in memory. When next time the meta-data is accessed, there is no need to access the http/ftp server. Instead the cached meta-data will be returned Here we dont go deep inside of the source code, but the source code is an important part to enhance the performance D  Connecttion Manager Connection manager can be seen as a delegate of all physical storage devices. It maintains a pool of connections to the remote storage sites. If a client wants to access some file resource on a remote sites, it must acquire a connection from connection manager firstly. If there is already a connection to the specific remote site, the manager will return it to the client else the manager will establish a new connection to the site and return this new connection. When a client finishes the data transferring, it does not close the connection immediately Instead, it just releases the connection and tries to put this connection back to the connection pool. To avoid establishing too many connections, the client will close the connection if a connection to the same site already exists in the pool. Under this mechanism, we can use the connections efficiently; as a result the performance is enhanced Connection manager also handles all the exceptions of connections. If a connection has never been used for a long time since its last usage, a timeout exception may be thrown This exception should be caught by connection manager instead of caught by user interface. Connection manager will try to reconnect and return the reconnected connection, so that the user interface doesnt need to deal with the underlying timeout exception IV  E VALUATION  The experiments are setup as follows: three Intel Pentium machines \(Pentium IV 2.4 GHz, 1GB Memory\e used, one as the client, one as the naming server and one as a ftp server providing file resources. A FRB tree is built on the naming server, some FTP directories and files are mapped to the nodes of the tree. The time for listing and transferring all files is recorded. For comparison 002 we choose Commons VFS testing together 
292 
292 
284 
284 


 Figure 5  The time of listing files Figure 5 shows that FRB can list files more quickly. The time of listing files spent by Commons VFS increase rapidly as the file number increases. This is because Commons VFS tries to resolve every file when listing files, so it takes a lot of time FRB only resolves a file when it is accessed Figure 6  The data transfer time for small files Figure 6 shows that FRB is more efficient than Commons VFS when transferring lots of small files. The data transfer time increases more rapidly than file number. It is because that an individual data connection needs to be established for each file, which takes much time Figure 7  The data transfer time of files with same total size Figure 7 also shows that FRB is more efficient than Commons VFS. With the number of files increases, the difference between FRB and VFS in performance is more obvious Besides, VFS has a lot of bugs which havent been fixed since now. For instance, the name of a file to be accessed shouldnt have a whitespace character or -. Some directories could not be resolved, etc. These make Commons VFS not convenient to use V  R ELATED W ORK  Many recent projects [4   6 8  9] ha ve t a c k l e d t h e problem of integrating heterogeneous file resource One of the most famous systems is SRB, which provides a hierarchical logical namespace to manage the organization of data. Although it is powerful, unfortunately it is not as simple as we wish. A lot of installation and configuration is required and several servers are needed to run the SRB service and MCAT service. This makes SRB not suitable for us Data Grid provides an integrating infrastructure for distributed computation, which is also a specialization and extension of the Grid [9 i s al so po w e r f ul a n d e ffi c i e n t   but  many services need to be installed before using it. This also makes Data Grid not easy-to-use Apache Commons VFS is a light-weight package for integrating heterogeneous file resource. It provides a single API for accessing various different file resources. But it fails under our test due to low performance. Besides, the usage of Commons VFS is not easy, and sometimes it makes us confused Both SRB and Commons VFS are designed for integrating heterogeneous file resources. Also there are some other systems or packages. But they are too heavy, too complex or low performance. Moreover, they are not suitable for us to research the optimization of file resource integrating system in future VI  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  We have described FRB, a light-weight, easy-to-use file integrating system. The emphases of our design are making the system simple and high performance. FRB provides the user a unified view and access interface of various heterogeneous file resources. It could be effectively used in the data grid and enterprises, and it could also be used by the developers to do further development. Now FRB has already been used in Corsair   a ca m p us d a t a  gr i d i n  T s i nghua U n i v er si t y  a nd provides part of the data accessing services At present, FRB is still a very initial one, and extra work is required to perfect it. Firstly, integrating more heterogeneous file resources, such as CIFS Error! Reference source not found files, is required. Another ongoing work is to provide searching service to help the user find a specific file resource quickly. Finally, we hope to do some more optimization to keep FRB simple when more types of file resources are integrated  
293 
293 
285 
285 


 ACKNOWLEDGMENT This Work is co-sponsored by Natural Science Foundation of China \(60673152, 60773145, 60803121\ National HighTech R&D \(863\Program of China \(2006AA01A101 2006AA01A106, 2006AA01A108, 2006AA01A111 2006AA01A117\ational Basic Research \(973\Program of China \(2004CB318000\ and Tsinghua National Laboratory for  Information Science and Technology \(TNLIST\ Crossdiscipline Foundation R EFERENCES  1  I. Foster and C Kesselman. The Grid 2: Blueprint for a New Computing Infrastructure. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Francisco, 2004 2  M. Lenzerini. Data Integration: A Theoretical Perspective. ACM PODS 2002, pp. 233-246 3  Wenhao Xu, Jing Li, Yongwei Wu, Xiaomeng Huang and Guangwen Yang. VDM: Virtual Database Management for Distributed Database and File Systems. Grid and Cooperative Computing, 2008 4  C. Baru, R. Moore, A. Rajasekar, M. Wan. The SDSC Storage Broker In Proceeding of CASCON98 Conference, Nov. 1998 5  A. Rajasekar, M. Wan, R. Moore, W. Schroeder, G. Kremenek, et al Storage Resource Broker  Managing Distributed Data in a Grid Computer Society of India Journal, Special Issue on SAN, Vol. 33 No.4, pp. 42-54, Oct 2003 6  Commons VFS http://commons.apache.org/vfs  7  Likun Liu, Yongwei Wu, Guangwen Yang, and Weimin Zheng ZettaDS: A light-weight distributed storage system for cluster. In Proceedings of the 3 rd ChinaGrid Annual Conference, 2008 8  J. Bester, I. Foster, G. Kesselman, J. Tedesco, S. Tuecke. GASS: A Data Movement and Access Service for Wide Area Computing Systems. In Proceedings of the 6 th workshop on I/O in Parallel and Distributed Systems, May 1999 9  A. Chervenak, I. Foster, C. Kesselman, C. Salisbury, S. Tuecke. The Data Grid: Towards an Architecture for the Distributed Management and Analysis of Large Scientific Datasets. Network Storage Symposium 1999   Corsair, Campus Data Grid in Tsinghua University http://corsair.thuhpc.org    P. Leach and D. Perry. CIFS: A Common Internet File System November 1996. Microsoft Interactive Developer                                                              
294 
294 
286 
286 


  7  Figure 6. ABS Feature Results In this case, the fault was clear ly identified as a spall located on the inner race of the beari ng. Therefore, the inner race fault frequency would be expected to be a key piece of evidence for fault detection. Figure 7 provides the inner race fault feature trends obtai ned for the conventional and ImpactEnergy spectra  Figure 7. Effect of IE Processing on Detection Again, all feature values are normalized on a 0-1 scale While the conventional feature provides good indication of the progressed fault condition, the resulting detection threshold results in several cases of false alarms and missed detection. The feature value trend obtained after the signal processing process provides clear separation of the baseline incipient fault and progressed fault classes. As illustrated in the trend plot, thresholds can be created for this feature that provide fault detection without error as well as a fault severity assessment To further improve the performance of the inner race feature, feature fusion was used to combine the three best performing features into a single health index. Due to the small number of data samples available to refine the fused feature, a simple linear projection was created using principal component analysis \(PCA\s technique of linear algebra reduces data dimensionality while retaining the most critical information The resulting fused feature Figure 8\feature variance for each of the three classes than is observed in the inner race feature alone  Figure 8. Fused Feature Trend Plot Finally, sensor fusion was attempted to further enhance the fault response of the inner race feature. The bearing test rig collects sensor data in three locations. Two of these measurements are taken in close proximity to the test specimen. The third acceleromet er is located far from the test specimen in close proximity to another bearing. It is not expected that this distan t accelerometer would provide useful information about subtle faults present in the test bearing. All features presented so far were derived from the radial sensor near the specimen. To demonstrate sensor fusion, three techniques: beamforming, principal component analysis and the SUMPLE algorithm were applied to the time domain data from the two closest accelerometers The resulting feature trends obtained from data derived from each fusion technique are presented in Figure 9. The inner race feature extracted fro m the radial sensor only is provided for reference purposes   Figure 9. Inner Race Feature Sensor Fusion Results The results show that there was no observed benefit from sensor fusion using any of the three techniques. In this case the information gained from the axial sensor does not provide additional evidence of the fault condition. Note that the beamforming and SUMPLE results display the undesirable effect of a slight increase in feature variance These results demonstrate that the benefit of sensor fusion is 
 


  8 highly dependent on the quality of the information obtained from each individual sensor, a nd if not done carefully can actually decrease the usefulness of the extracted features 6  A N A RCHITECTURE FOR THE I NTEGRATION OF D IAGNOSTICS AND P ROGNOSTICS  Figure 10 depicts an architecture for advanced detection and prognosis. In this architecture, sensor measurements and operational parameters are input in real time. Data is preprocessed to reduce the effect of noise, before computing condition indicators or features indicative of a component\222s health Using the features and a model describing the component\222s degrading state, fault detection and failure prognostic algorithms based on particle filtering are applied [7 Statistical analysis is implemented to evaluate the probability of a fault being present. When the fault is detected with a given confidence level, the prognostic algorithm is activated to predict the remaining useful life RUL\he component. This architecture provides not only a convenient compromise between data-driven and model-based techniques, but also the means to evaluate performance with statistical indices. Moreover, the particle filtering based algorithm provides a means to deal efficiently with nonlinear and non-Gaussian noise. The nonlinear dynamic state model described by \(1\s used 
800 
15 
05 
Probability of Failure                 
 
PF Detection Routine: GAG =246                 
300 400 500 700 100 Interpolation of feature value with noise 
  004  
1 2 Preprocessing Fault Detection                   3 4 0 1 3 4 0 0  
   
100 3.5 4.5 100 0.5 2 5 
 1   1  Features         dbd ctdc td c xt f xt nt xt fxt xt t thxtxtvt 
 
 
3.5 
Interpolation of feature vlaue s napshot with ground truth data Prognostic Model 1  L tftuLt 
100 200 600 900 
212\005\212 
Type I Error = 5%. Type II Error =1.9577 Fisher Discriminant Ratio =12.1834 Operating conditions and inputs Diagnostic Model 
50 150 50 150 4.5 
  
   1 1 2 2 2 1  2 1   1   1 1       10 if 10 01  01 else 0 0 0 1 0 0 dd b dd cc d c TTT b T dd c xt xt fnt xt xt xt xt x t t yt x t vt xx fx xx x 
     1 where f b is a non-linear mapping x d 1 and x d 2 are Boolean states that indicate normal and faulty conditions respectively. The paramter x c is the continuous-valued state that represents the fault dimension w  t  v  t  mean Gaussian noise signals n  t s independent and identically distributed \(i.i.d.\form white noise and 002 is a time-varying model parameter that describes the propagation of the fault dimension under a fatigue stress dependent on the loading profile that is being applied to the specimen under consideration This approach provides a recursively updated estimate of the probability for each fault condition considered in the analysis. These estimated probabilities may activate alarm indicators if they exceed appr opriate thresholds for the probability of detection \(typically 90% or 95%\is is a particularly useful approach when the normal operation of a system is defined through a dyna mic state-space model. It is  Sensor Data 003 
 Features performance Feature Extraction 
 Failure Prognosis Figure 10. Proposed architecture for the integration of diagnostics and prognostics 
  
200 250 200 250 2 4 x 10 3 
002\003 
 


100 500 800 0.01 
200 300 600 900 1000 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.1 
700 
400 
  9 also important to note that this diagnostic framework allows for estimation of each of th e system\222s continuous-valued states as a probability density function \(pdf\The states are computed at the moment of fault detection, and provided as initial conditions to the prognostic routines, thus giving a suitable insight to the inherent uncertainty in the prediction problem When a fault is detected, the prognostic algorithm is activated. Prognosis may be understood as the result of the procedure where long-term \(multi-step\\226 describing the evolution in time of a fault indicator\226 are generated with the purpose of estimating the remaining useful life \(RUL\failing component/subsystem. Several approaches related to prognosis may be found in the literature. Few of them, however, offer appropriate tools for real-time estimation of the RUL as a continuous function of time A two-level procedure has been developed to address the failure prognosis problem. This procedure intends to reduce the uncertainty associated with long-term predictions by using the current state pdf es timate and a nonlinear dynamic state-space model. In the first level p step ahead predictions are generated based on an a priori estimate, adjusting their associated probabilities accord ing to the noise model structure. A second level uses these predictions and the definition of critical thresholds to estimate the RUL pdf also referenced to as the time-to-failure pdf When the prognosis algorithm is implemented, the pdf of fault detection is used as th e initial pdf to run the prognostic algorithm. The model for prognosis is developed using a Paris Law realtionship. For the bearings in focus, a fault is modeled as a quantified surface area of defect, denoted as D such that n DC d t dD D  0 
0 0 
Time \(min Spall Size \(mm 2   Interpolation of spall size groundtruth spall size snapshot with data available 
006  006 3 Results with Surrogate Bearing Data The following results are applied to the surrogate bearing data set only, since the fault size \(ground truth\s available for this data set. As indicated earlier, 32 vibration snapshots are present in this data set, with 16 baseline \(healthy\ata points and eight poi nts from each of two \(spall Hence, 32 feature values are generated. To run failure prognosis, artificial data in-between these data points must be generated. The available vibration data correspond to different service hours. From these points, we interpolate the data according to service tim e in terms of minutes. This way, enough data points can be generated to run the failure prognosis algorithms. Figure 11 shows the ground truth data and times of available vibration snapshots. Interpolation of the ground truth points is used to assign spall sizes to the vibration snapshots. Figure 12 shows the time-based interpolation of feature values. From these two interpolations, we can estimate the expected feature values corresponding to different fault sizes and generate a feature progression curve as shown in Figure 13 Results of Failure Prognosis  Since the data is interpolated in terms of minutes, the RUL expectation and 95% confidence interval are also given in minutes. Long-term predictions are provided after fault is detected and using the current estimate for the state pdf as initial condition. Results are depicted in Figure 14 through Figure 16 Figure 14 shows the minute at which the fault is detected Before this time instant, the prognostic routines are disabled. As soon as the fault is detected, the pdf estimates at that time are used as the initial conditions for the prognostic routines, as shown in Figure 15. When a new measurement comes in, th e prognostic algorithms will provide an estimate of the remaining useful life. Figure 16 shows the result at the 350 th minute The comparison between actual time-to-failure and estimated time-to-failure is shown in Figure 17. The red vertical line is the time at which the system fails, while the black line is the actual time-to-failure. The magenta line is the expected value of the estim ated pdf and the blue line is defined as the lower bound of the 95% \(just-in-time window around the expected valu    Figure 11. Timeline showing ground truth points and interpolated spall sizes for available vibration snapshots 
 2  which states that the rate of defect growth is related to the instantaneous defect area D under a steady operating condition C 0 and n are material dependent coefficients. In discrete time form, we have 
 0     n D t t Dt tC Dt 
 


100 600 100 Just-in-time line 
100 1000 0.1 Interpolation of feature value with noise 
900 
Time \(min Spall Size \(mm 2  Interpolation of spall growth according to feature values 
500 
Expected 
Time \(min Feature Value   
Actual Remaining Life  Figure 17. Results of failure prognosis 
Healthy Failure 
100 1000 0.02 
400 800 
0 0 0 0 0 0 1 
200 300 400 600 700 800 900 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 Interpolation of feature vlaue 
200 300 400 500 600 700 800 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 
200 300 500 700 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 
  10  Figure 12. Interpolation of fault dimension and feature vector  Figure 13. Interpolation of fault dimension according to feature values  Figure 14. Diagnostic result when a fault is detected  Figure 15. Initial prognostic estimation right after the fault is first detected  Figure 16. Failure prognosis at the 350 th minute of bearing operation snapshot with ground truth data 
Remaining Life \(min Current Time \(min  
 


  11 C ONCLUSIONS  This paper shows that enhancements to diagnostic techniques are desirable as well as attainable additions to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS particularly in the case of rotorcraft component monitoring Enhancements like those presented support CBM efforts primarily in two ways: reduce the sensitivity of diagnostic processes to both signal noise and variations in environmental and operating conditions, and improve the performance of detection systems as well as the task of fault identification \(e.g., severity quantification\ towards the instantiation of reliable prognostics Representative examples, motivat ed by the interest of the U.S. Army in transitioning from time-based \(using TBO definitions\o condition-based maintenance for an H-60 drive train bearing, illustrates the potential benefits of pursuing an integrated approach to diagnostics and prognostics, combining technologies for enhanced data preprocessing, advanced diagnostic-support algorithms, fusion at the sensor/feature levels, and an adequate framework for false alarm mitigation and uncertainty management. An architecture for achieving such in tegration is presented, with emphasis on supporting a robust performance of diagnostics operations, even in the presence of such kinds of disturbances as those observed in data acquired by HUMS vibration sensors. The present study also gives relevance to seeded fault\ testing of helicopter drive train components because the technologies disc ussed can integrate knowledge about damage mechanism interactions or physics-of-failure models, as well as make use of multiple-sensor and multiple-feature data sets re presentative of known fault conditions For this reason, the team behind this project is evaluating a potential opportunity to perform a series of tests on rotorcraft drive train bearings with varying fault severities and under multiple, though rea listic, operating conditions Such tests are being planned to provide algorithm/model validations, as well as diagnostic/prognostic performance assessments, in support of providing the U.S. Army with technologies that make detection systems more robust allow for the implementation of prognostics, and extend the useful life of drive train components. Component degradation testing thus remains as future, follow-up work to the research reported in this document A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work has been partially supported with a cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory under contract number W911NF-07-2-0075. In addition to the primary authors, we would like to thank government and contractor representatives from organizations supporting the Army Utility \(Blackhawk\Program Manager including Mr. Don Estes, Mr. Carlos Rivera, and Dr. Jon Keller. This work has also benefitted greatly from consultations with other Army Research Laboratory and NASA Glenn researchers such as Dr. Timothy Krantz, Dr. David Lewicki, Dr. Harry Decker Dr. Hiralal Khatri, Mr. Ken Ranney and Mr. Kwok Tom R EFERENCES   Branhof, R.W Grabill, P., Grant, L and Keller J.A 223Application of Automated Rotor Smoothing Using Continuous Vibration Measurements\224. American Helicopter Society 61 st annual forum, Grapevine, Texas June 1\2263, 2005 2 Do ra, R., W r ig h t J., Hess, R., an d Bo yd stu n   B 223Utility of the IMD HUMS in an Operational Setting on the UH60L Blackhawk\224. American Helicopter Society 60 th  annual forum, Baltimore, Maryland, May 7\22610, 2004  Zakrajsek, J.J., Dem p sey, P J., et al. \223Rotorcraft Health Management Issues and Challenges\224. NASA report TM\227 2006-214022. February, 2006   Suggs, D.T., and W a de, D.R 223Vi b rat i on B a sed Maintenance Credits for the UH-60 Oil Cooler Fan Assembly\224. American Helicopter Society, CBM Specialists Meeting, Huntsville, Alabama, February 13 2008   Baker C Marble, S., Morton, B.P., and Sm ith, B.J 223Failure Modes and Prognostic Techniques for H-60 Tail Rotor Drive System Bearings\224. IEEEAC paper #1122 IEEE, 2007  Keller, J.A., Branhof, R., Dunaway, D., and Grabill P 223Examples of Condition Based Maintenance with the Vibration Management Enhancement Program\224 American Helicopter Society 61 st Annual Forum Grapevine, Texas, June 1 \226 3, 2005   Zhang, B Scony ers, C B y i ngt on C S Pat r i c k R  Orchard, M.E., and Vachtsevanos, G.J. \223Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults\224. In ternational Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, Colorado October 6-9, 2008 8 Byin g t o n  C.S., W a tso n  M., Lee, H., an d Ho llin s M 223Sensor-level Fusion to Enhance Health and Usage Monitoring Systems\224. Ameri can Helicopter Society, 64 th  Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29-May 1, 2008   Engel S.J., Gi l m art i n B J., B ongort K and Hess A 223Prognostics, the Real Issues Involved With Predicting Life Remaining\224. Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 18-25, 2000 
 


  12 B IOGRAPHY  Romano Patrick is a Project Manager at Impact Technologies. He received a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology specializing in model-based machine health diagnostics and prognostics. He also holds an MBA from Georgia Tech and degrees from U Texas, Arlington and U. Panamericana, Mexico. With career focus on interdisciplinary integration of technologies, his recent work involves practicable diagnostics/prognostics design for complex systems, such as rotorcraft drive trains Past experience includes automation and design for a variety of industrial and government sponsors \(DARPA, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, etc.\, graduate professorship and program coordination at U. Panamericana, and some entrepreneurial R&D Matthew J. Smith is a Senior Project Engineer at Impact Technologies. During his tenure with Impact, Matthew has performed multiple efforts pertaining to bearing vibration analysis, diagnostic and prognostic system development, and experimental study of faulted system reponse and fault progression. Previously, as a research assistant at Penn State and the NASA Glenn Research Center, Matthew performed experimental and analytical oil-free bearing analyses Matthew received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University. His research interests include: prognostic health assessment for bearing and actuator systems grease degradation modeling and fault classifier development Bin Zhang received his Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological University, Singapor e in 2007. He received his BE and MSE degrees from Nanjing University of Science and Technology, China, in 1993 and 1999, respectively. He is a senior member of IEEE. From 2005 to present, he has been a Post-Doc with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA His current research interests are fault diagnosis and failure prognosis, systems and control, digital signal processing learning control, intelligent sy stems and their applications to robotics, power electronics and various mechanical systems Carl S. Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies. He directs R&D in pursuit of advanced, automated systems health management for land-based, shipboard, and airborne machinery for military and comme rcial customers. He is Chairman of the Machinery Diagnostics & Prognostics Committee of ASME and a member of IEEE, AIAA, SAE and AHS. He has a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Aeronautical Engineering from George Washington University, and has published over 60 papers, book chapters, magazine and journal articles related to diagnostics and prognostics technologies George Vachtsevanos is Professor Emeritus at the Georgia Institute of Technology and also serves as the Chief Scientist at Impact Technologies, LLC. He directed the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech for the past 28 years where faculty and students are conducting research in fault diagnosis/prognosis and fault-tolerant control of engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Inte lligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities aw ard and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO\ Manager for Prognostics and Diagnostics \(P&D\ for Operational Readiness and C ondition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization & modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  
 


 13 Analysis of Model A The analysis of Model A gave varying results owing to the variation in the profiles of the plan view and the sectional side view. The sectional side view is diamond type unlike that of Model B which is convex in shape. Both are however, ideal supersonic airfoils The sectional side view of Model A shows a rise in pressure behind the shock wave. This is because of the oblique shock wave formation around the compression corners. A drop in pressure is noticed at the expansion corner due to the formation of expansion fan at the convex corners The top view of Model A, when analyzed in Fluent gave the following contours. Formation of a high pressure region ahead of the wing profile sh ows the formation of a bow wave. This may induce very high wave drag and may not be a good optimized model    
 


 14 Analyses of Model C Analyses of Model C were done at Mach 1 to avoid divergence in the solution. The following results were obtained. The analyzed cont our clearly shows a high pressure region ahead of the nose This is the detached shock wave that is formed as seen in the shadowgraph. A region of high pressure exists after the detached shock      
 


 15      7  C ONCLUSION  The results from experimental theoretical and software analysis validate the fabricated models to work well over the supersonic regimes. Models A and B have reduced shock strength. This advantage could be explored in the design of a transcontinental supersonic passenger airliner. The models prove to be aerodynamically efficient and have lesser wave drag However, there were a few shortcomings in this approach The fabrication of such an ai rliner at a bigger scale could 
 


 16 prove to be a challenging task. Installation of engines would have to be looked into from a different aspect This work could be extended to study various other complicated supersonic aircraft profiles; the distribution of pressure, shock pattern and shock strength can be studied Unless efforts are continued on this regard, the viability of an efficient supersonic airc raft is likely to languish  R EFERENCES  1  United States Patent - 4828204 , Supersonic  Airplane by Gottfried O. Friebel, Bellevue, Wash  2 United States Patent \226 5518204, High Efficiency Supersonic Aircraft \226 Richard.R.Tracy  3  Jones, R., 1991. \223The Flying Wing Supersonic Transport.\224 Aeronautical Journal March    A b o o k o n Gas Dy nam i c by  R a t h i n a k ri s hna n    A st udy of Detache d S h oc k wave in 2-D  by Morton      Alperin, CALTECH, 1950 6 In trodu ction to fligh t  b y Ja m e s And e rson   Ai rcra ft De si gn  by  J o hn P F i e l d i ng  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The author wishes to express his hearty appreciation to all those people who have been instrumental in successful completion of this work. The author wishes to thank the principal, Dr. J. Shanmugam and management of Velammal Engineering College for their continual support. In particular, the author wishes to mention Mr Vickneshkumar, who has been a source of constant support throughout the project and Mr. Murugan for his kind cooperation and help during the fabrication of the models The author is indebted to Mr. Palani, IIT Madras for his invaluable guidance on FLUENT software and Dr Muruganandam, IIT Madras for his kind permission to conduct the tests in the wind tunnel facility at IIT Last but not the least; the author extends his warm thanks to his father, Mr. Arun Banerjee and his family who have been a great moral support throughout the course of this work       BIOGRAPHY Arijeet Banerjee is a Bachelor of Engineering \(Mechanical Engin eering\ student at Velammal Engineering College, Anna University, Chennai  India. He has completed his senior secondary schooling under the Central Board of Secondary Education. A keen aerospace enthusiast has taken part and won various competitions at both state and national levels. Visit the author at www.arijeetbanerjee.synthasite.com  
 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





