  1 Three-Dimensional Tools for Telemetry Visualization and Analysis John R. Wright Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Dr Pasadena, CA  91109 818-393-2706 john.r.wright@jpl.nasa.gov Abstract 227Monitoring of spacecraft and robotic activities both in realtime and after the fact, can benefit from the use of three-dimensional visua lization tools and spacecraft models.  The simple case of animating a robot model based on a telemetry stream provides an intuitive understanding of the robot's activities that far exceeds that available through dials, graphs, and other common widgets.  The addition of such widgets into the three-dimensional environment, in 
conjunction with the robot model, enhances understanding while focusing attention on critical areas  The design and architecture of visualization tools for analyzing spacecraft state were developed to facilitate the association of telemetered data channels to the three dimensional model of the spacecraft or robot.  In addition the development of custom indicators for any data channel helps to produce a tool geared to maximizing the understanding of the spacecraft's state. Indicators can be enabled or disabled to allow an operator to focus on key data values for a specific activity In addition to the three-dimensional visualization capabilities, standard graphing and plotting tools allow review of telemetry histories and playback of histories through the animation within the 3D environment.  These 
capabilities allow for rapid assimilation of spacecraft activities and state.  In addition to telemetry histories, the results of pre-activity simulations can be visualized and then visually compared to actual telemetry to verify correct performance.  For in-situ missions, models of the local terrain can be included and interactions between the robot and the terrain analyzed The three-dimensional capabilities presented enhance the understanding of robotic and spacecraft activities and state to improve operations, reliability, and safety 1 2 T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 
1  2  H ISTORY 1  3  I MPLEMENTATION 2  4  T HREE DIMENSIONAL V ISUALIZATION 2  5  I NDICATORS 3  6  F 
UTURE D EVELOPMENT 4  7  C ONCLUSION 5  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5 09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1191, Version 1 Updated November 19, 2008 A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  5  R EFERENCES  5  B IOGRAPHY 
 6  1  I NTRODUCTION  The most important requirement for planning and operating robotic missions in space and on planetary surfaces is understanding the past, current, and future state of the robot A variety of tools have been utilized for assisting the operators in understanding robot state.  One of the most powerful is the use of three- dimensional visualization environments with fully articulated robot models driven by telemetry and simulation data.  These tools enable the understanding of both robot state and its relationship to the external environment. [1  3 4  5 Fo r in situ  activ ities three-dimensional terrain models can be visualized to aid in 
assessing state and future activities. [6  8  However, simply animating an articulated spacecraft model is often insufficient to convey cr itical state information to an operator.  In many inst ances, the spacecraft body or components will obscure the vi ew of other components Displaying multiple views of the spacecraft from a variety of angles is cumbersome, difficult to grasp visually, and still fails to make internal components visible.  In addition, some telemetered data has no direct visual component.  This paper discusses ways of adding visual components to telemetered data that are easily visualized and understood by the operator to convey more state information The visual components, called indicators, are intended to 
be displayed within the 3D visualization environment, in conjunction with a robot model, such that the indicator's shape, color, size, or other attributes vary in proportion to a telemetered data channel.  The selected data channels can be information that is difficult to quantify visually, such as tilt  or i n form at i on t h at has no vi sual com ponent such as temperature or force 2  H ISTORY  The use of three-dimensional visualization tools for telemetry analysis at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory began with the Mars Polar Lander mission in 1998.  The 


  2 tools developed for that mission were enhanced and used for the Mars Exploration Rovers missions and have been critical to their success.  They have been enhanced again and used for the All-Terrain Hex-Limbed Extra-Terrestrial Explorer \(ATHLETE\issions pioneered the use of more sophisticated visualization tools for telemetry analysis of downlinked data.  The ATHLETE project adapted the tools for real-time telemetry visualization, with real-time playback of robotic activities through animation of a robot model.  Specialized indicators for presenting force data that have no corresponding robotic articulation helps focus on key telemetry values that must be monitored during activities The design and architecture of the visualization tool was developed to facilitate the association of telemetered data channels to the three- dime nsional model of the spacecraft  In addition the development of custom indicators for any data channel helps to produce a tool geared to maximizing the unde rstanding of the spacecraft's state. Indicators can be enable d or disabled to allow an operator to focus on key data values for a specific activity Three-dimensional visuali zation of the ATHLETE robot with additional specialized indicators, proved its worth at several field trials.  Early versions of the flight software were able to steer the wheels and drive to designated positions.  However, they were unable to adapt to the terrain and perform force equalization.  If the robot drove over a small hump in the terrain, the leg on top of the hump would have large forces on it while the two adjacent legs would have low forces.  Numeric displays continually updated to show the magnitudes of the individual leg forces. However in the operational environment it was often too difficult to be able to continually monitor those values.  Placing indicators in the 3D environment allowed the operators to tell at a glance how well balanced the forces were and which legs were the most out of balance.  Then the operators were able to perform corrections to balance the forces.  When later versions of the flight software were able to adaptively balance the forces while driving, the indicators provided quick feedback on th e efficacy of the algorithms In addition to the three-dimensional visualization capabilities, standard graphing and plotting tools allow review of telemetry histories and playback of histories through the three-dimensional visualization.  These capabilities allow for rapid assimilation of spacecraft activities and state.  In addition to telemetry histories, the results of preactivity simulations can be visualized and then visually compared to actual telemetry to verify correct perform 12 For i n si t u m i ssi ons, m odel s of t h e local terrain can be included and interactions between the robot and the terrain analyzed 3  I MPLEMENTATION  The 3D visualization environment is based on standard 3D rendering tools. Existing versions are based on Open Performer, an API from Silicon Graphics Incorporated, and the GTK user interface toolkit.  The latest version under development is based on Open Inventor for the 3D API and the Qt user interface toolkit The model of the spacecraft is generated from the CAD models used for construction of the spacecraft with some simp lification to make rendering faster.  The model is as fully articulated as possible in order to be able to visualize all motions and the results of all commands. Telemetry channels are attached to the articulated portions of the mode l, either from recorded or simulated telemetry in files or from streaming real-time telemetry from a teleoperated robot.  Changes in telemetered values result in changes in articulations The design of the tools utilizes as much multi-mission capability as possible.  This is done at two levels.  The first is the use of external models loaded from files, for the spacecraft structure and also for the kinematic linkages and articulations.  These provide the ability to do some customization at runtime and efforts have been made to maximize this capability.  The other customization is done at compile time by the use of small customization files driving code generators to build the tool ready for the desired task.  Mission-specific code is isolated to as few modules and libraries as possible 4  T HREE DIMENSIONAL V ISUALIZATION  The use of 3D visualization environments for telemetry and state analysis and understanding has been a big factor in the success of the MER missions. The design and implementation of the tools provided the capability to ingest telemetry data and play it back almost immediately upon receipt. The production of terrain models within minutes of receiving stereo imagery and th eir immediate ingestion into the visualization tool also contributes greatly to the performance of the MER team  Fi gure 1 shows a  Figure 1 \226 MER Rover Drive Visualization 


  3 visualization of a recent drive by the Opportunity rover This type of visualization can be used to evaluate the performance of the rover during traverses and to compare to the planned path for a traverse Similarly, figure 2 shows the state of the MER robotic arm after a set of arm activities.  An operator can verify placement on a target, check th e arm articulations against the predicted position, and pl ay back the activities through an animation process The use of visualization t ools for state analysis has contributed greatly to the continued success of the MER missions.  Original estimates expected that approximately one day of activities would be lost out of every three planned due to errors in the planning process, both human and tools.  With the visualization tools aiding in state analysis and understanding, the actual numbers were on the order of three days lost out of 100 planned. Understanding rover state allowed alternative activities to be planned when other activities were precluded and to avoid many errors before they occurred 5  I NDICATORS  As stated above, however, merely playing back the articulations only effects partial comprehension of the spacecraft state.  Some telemetered values do not directly drive articulation of the model and thus do not affect the visualization.  Of particul ar importance for ATHLETE were the forces on the legs during driving and other maneuvers These forces are partially a f unction of the leg articulations and partially the result of interactions between the legs and the terrain.  To visualize this type of data, the concept of an indicator was developed An indicator is a visualization widget that can be coupled with one or more telemetry channels.  The indicators can be displayed within the 3D environment, in association with the spacecraft model, or in 2D as an overlay on the display window.  Typically, the 3D mode is used.  In addition, the indicators may be associated with the spacecraft model and directly driven by spacecraft stat e or may be driven by other information.  An example of the latter might be indicators showing the direction to the sun, earth, orbiting relay spacecraft, or other external body.  These indicators would be dependent only on time and the spacecraft position, not on any internal stat e of the spacecraft Indicators do not have to be limited to internal spacecraft information. The use of SPICE kernels for tracking bodies within the solar system can be linked to spacecraft position and orientation to drive indicators pointing to important bodies such as the earth and sun.  A vector from an antenna towards earth can quickly identify potential obscurations Similarly, a vector from an in strument towards a target of interest can quickly reveal the visibility of the target Figure 3 shows an example of indicators showing the directions to several bodies as used for the MER mission The orientation of the indicators is driven by the mission clock time, not the rover state In the figure, it can be seen that the tilt of the rover provides a maximum incident solar energy.  Also, the time used fo r the display is near solar conjunction, causing the sun and earth indicators to be closely aligned.  The third indicator shows the location of one of the orbiting relay spacecraft Indicators have use in both in-situ activities on planetary surfaces as well as in teleoperated missions.  Generally operating a robot on a pl anetary surface requires autonomous behavior on the part of the robot and later analysis of activities and state information.  For the Mars Exploration Rovers \(MER\missions, the rovers would send telemetry back to earth at the end of the day's activities The telemetered data had to be analyzed and new command sequences prepared prior to the next day's activities.  The cycle consisted of receiving and processing the telemetry  Figure 2 \226 MER Arm State Visualization  Fi g ure 3 226 E p hemeris Indicators 


  4 and imagery, analysis of teleme try, particularly final state planning of activities, preparation of command sequences verification and validation of command sequences, and finally uplink.  Because the cycle is so short, tools to rapidly convey state information were critical.  For MER, the visualization tools were most useful for evaluating the downlinked telemetry and for reviewing the results of simulation and rehearsal of command sequences for validation and verification.  For example, figure 4 shows the same situation as seen in figure 2 but with the addition of an indicator showing the current tool frame of the arm.  With the addition of the indicator, it is much easier to see that the tool is in fact lined up with the target and the planning team can proceed with the observations.  Figure 5 shows another use of the tool frame indicator For teleoperated robots, such as the ATHLETE robot visualization tools are critical for monitoring current activities.  In this case, it is impossible to replay activities to analyze them from multiple view angles and over different time periods. The operator must grasp critical state information immediately.  In this case, it is even more important to incorporate indicators for key telemetry channels that add information to the display without visually challenging the operator.  It is easy to overwhelm the visual system with too much information so the selection of telemetry channels to display and the design of the indicators can be very important Most often, the indicators ar e associated w ith the spacecraft state data and are associated in the 3D environment with the spacecraft model.  Figure 6 shows the simple force indicators associated with the ATHLETE model legs. The upper image shows the leg forces to be in near balance while the middle image shows the legs significantly out of balance.  The lower image s hows the state of the force indicators when the forces ar e all zero.  Generally this indicates that telemetry is not being received by the application and is immediately obvious to the operator In addition to the leg force indicators, a simple set of leg ID indicators is also in use here.  The actual ATHLETE robot model does not distinguish the individual legs so indicators are used to label the corners to identify the legs within the visualization environment.  Thes e can also be seen in figure 6.  Other indicators available include axes to identify the coordinate frame of the robot or currently selected tool, as seen in Figure 7, and also to display the location of a target being tracked by the onboard docking software 6  F UTURE D EVELOPMENT  Future developments in the use of 3D visualization environments and the use of state-based indicators are virtually unlimited.  Each project or mission will have specific requirements for their tools to support commanding and analysis for that spacecraft Current efforts are centered on developing the capabilities required for MSL, including developing 3D visualization tools in a more open and supported 3D API and developing the specific set of indicators desired for the mission.  Coordinate frame tools will be of use during development to track transformations of locations from one frame to another. Pointers to solar system bodies will be used dur ing operations to evaluate instrument pointing and occlusion with rover components and nearby terrain.  Tool frame indicators will be used for aligning tools mounted on the arm with appropriate targets While these indicators are adaptations of ones used for MER, MSL can benefit from new indicators for displaying the forces on the robotic arm joints, field of regard for various instruments, and availability of analysis and sampling resources  Figure 4 \226 MER Tool Frame Indicator  Figure 5 \226 MER Tool Frame Indicator 2 


  5    Fi g ure 6 226 ATHLETE Force Indicators  7  C ONCLUSION  The use of 3D visualization environments greatly increases the comprehension of spacecraft state and function.  The use of indicators within the 3D environment adds an extra capability for state visualization and comprehension.  The indicators described here are only examples of what can be done to enhance state comprehension and many other types can be envisioned.  The framework now exists to quickly incorporate new types of indicators to existing tools as needed for specific projects and missions A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The work described in this paper was done at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Californi a Institute of Technology under contract to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  1  J. Biesiadecki et al., "Mar s Exploration Rover Surface Operations: Driving Opportunity at Meridiani Planum Proc. IEEE-SMC, Waikoloa Hawaii, October 2005   Figure 7 \226 ATHLETE Tool Frame Indicators 


  6 2  B. Cooper, "Driving on the Surface of Mars Using the Rover Control Workstati on," Proc. SpaceOps '98 Tokyo, Japan, 1998 3  F. Hartman et al., "Data Vi sualization for Effective Rover Sequencing," Proc IEEE-SMC, Waikoloa Hawaii, October 2005 4  C. Leger et al., "Mars Exploration Rover Surface Operations: Driving Spirit at Gusev Crater," Proc IEEE-SMC, Waikoloa Hawaii, October 2005 5  J. Wright et al, \223Immersive Environments for Mission Operations: Beyond Mars Pa thfinder\224, Proc. SpaceOps 98, Tokyo, Japan, 1998 6  R.G. Deen, D.A. Alexander, J.N. Maki, "Mars Image Products: Science Goes Operational", Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Space Operations SpaceOps 7  Deen, R.G. and J.J. Lorre, \223Seeing in Three Dimensions: Correlation and Triangulation of Mars Exploration Rover Imager y\224, 2005 IEEE International Conf. on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Waikoloa Hawaii, October 2005 8  J. Wright et al, \223Terra in Modelling for Immersive Visualization for the Mars Exploration Rovers\224, Proc SpaceOps \22104, Montreal, Canada, 2004 9  K. Ali, C. Vanelli, J. Biesiadecki, M. Maimone, Y Cheng, M. San Martin, J. Alexander Attitude and Position Estimation on the Mars Exploration Rovers October 2005 IEEE Systems Man and Cybernetics conference proceedings, Hawaii, USA., 10 October 2005 10  S. Maxwell et al \223The Design and Architecture of the Mars Exploration Rovers Project's Rover Sequencing and Visualization Program," Proc. SpaceOps \22104 Montreal, Canada, 2004 11  J. Wright et al, \223Terrain Modelling for In-situ Activity Planning and Rehearsal for the Mars Exploration Rovers," Proc. IEEE-SMC, Waikoloa, Hawaii, October 2005 12  J. Yen et al., "Sequence Rehearsal and Validation on Surface Operations of the Ma rs Exploration Rovers Proc. IEEE-SMC, Waikoloa Hawaii, October 2005 13  Alexander, D., P. Zamani, R. Deen, P. Andres, and H Mortensen, \223Automated Generation of Image Products for Mars Exploration Rover Mission Tactical Operations\224, 2005 IEEE International Conf. on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Waikoloa, Hawaii October 2005 B IOGRAPHY  John Wright has been one of the rover planners for the Mars Exploration Rover missions since landing in January 2004. In this role, his duties include planning all articulated operations of the rover, including mobility and arm operations, on a daily basis.  In addition, he is also one of the developers of the Rover Sequencing and Visualization Program used for building command sequences for the rovers and for simulating and visualizing rover activities. Prior to the MER mission, he worked on a variety of tasks involving visualization technology for other missions and non-NASA tasks. He is also currently involved in adapting the visualization tools for use with the upcoming Mars Science Laboratory mission 


  7  


Otherwise it is FALSE When AC CURRENT-OPTIMIZED is true the flight software should update the ionizer current value with the optimal current value output variable found before proceeding acMassCalibration This function performs a mass calibration based on a given mass spectrum where the two largest mass peaks are nitrogen and oxygen peaks and independently performs another mass calibration based on RF ramp parameters given by FPGA register values The function compares the results of the two mass calibration methods to determine whether the mass calibration is successful or not The decision variable of this function is AC_MASS CALIBRATED If the two calibration results agree AC MASS-CALIBRATED is set to TRUE Otherwise it is FALSE acCheckMassPeaks This function finds prominent mass peaks in a given mass spectrum and compares them with the persistent mass list The function checks whether the prominent mass peaks do align with the locations of the persistent mass peaks and whether any of the prominent mass peaks are outside of the persistent peak list The decision variables of this function are AC MASS PEAKS CHECKED AC_MASS_PEAKS_AT_EXPECTED_LOCATION and AC FOUND CONTAMINANT MASS PEAKS When the analysis of mass peak locations and strengths is properly conducted AC MASS PEAKS-CHECKED is set to TRUE Otherwise it is FALSE When AC MASS PEAKS CHECKED is true the flight software should use the two other decision variables to determine the next steps of the calibration procedure When AC MASS PEAKS CHECKED is false the flight software should exit the calibration procedure with an error flag 5 CONCLUSIONS In conclusion we have developed a heuristic calibration process to obtain the desired mass resolution and dynamic range of the VCAM s mass spectrometer and have implemented it into flight software We developed the calibration process by working closely with instrument engineers and translated it into algorithms that are suitable for direct conversion to flight software We designed several test cases and datasets to verify that the algorithm achieved the same as the original human calibration process REFERENCES 1 A Chutjian et al Overview of the Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Monitor a Miniature Gas Chromatograph/Mass Spectrometer for Trace Contamination Monitoring on the ISS and CEV Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Environmental Systems SAE Technical Paper Series paper number 2007-01-3150 2007 2 D L Jan Environmental Monitoring Instruments Using ISS as a Testbed for Exploration Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana March 2007 3 R E March An Introduction to Quadrupole Ion Trap Mass Spectrometry Journal of the American Society of Mass Spectrometry Vol 32 351-369 1997 BIOGRAPHY Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory She is developingflight instrument software for Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Monitor data analysis and autonomous calibration She is also conducting research on materials modeling and simulation comet gas dynamics nonlinear dynamics control spectral retrieval data reduction global optimization parallel computing and advanced numerical algorithms She received her Ph.D in Physics from the Ohio State University and her M.S and B.S in Physicsfrom the Seoul National University Ben Bornstein is a senior member of the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA He is the lead engineer for VCAM data analysis and its flight software implementation Ben enjoys bringing machine learning techniques and considerable hacking programming skills to bear to solve problems in geology remote sensing bioinformatics and systems biology He has designed and implemented software systems for several Caltech biology labs the Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics IGB at UC Irvine USC Children's Hospital and JPL's Mars Exploration Rover MER project He is also the inventor of and lead developer for LIBSBML an open-source library for the Systems Biology Markup Language SBML Ben received a B.Sc in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota Duluth in 1999 and is pursuing a MSc in Computer Science at the University of Southern California 8 


time, more firms \(or supply chains\ay start realizing competitive advantages emanating from B2B technology. This could increase mimetic influences and coercive influences over the long run  In addition, the importance of normative pressures in the Thai business community can be accelerated by the strong interdependency between members within the Thai social network. Thailand is known as an interdependence orientation society or a collectivist society h e T h ai com m u n ity  values the spirit of community collaboration. Komin  ref e rs to th is as in terdepen d en ce orien tated T h ai society. Collaborative behaviour is a dominant behavioural pattern, particularly in the rural community, where the brotherhood spirit often manifests itself in helping one another and in being interdependent and mutually supportive. Hence, the findings on the importance of normative pressures are in-accord with previous research dicatin g  that norms espoused by the businesses environment play a major role in influencing organisations to adopt and utilise new technology. Interestingly, both of the previous studies were conducted in the Asian cultural context, namely Singa d C h in a  h ere collectiv is m s eem s to be a s t ron g cu ltu ral value  Overall, findings show that external institutional factors, normative and coercive pressures, have an impact on the B2B utilization, while only normative pressures had a significant influence on perceived performance of B2B technology. Similar to normative pressures seem to be the most significant factor influencing both utilisation and performance Both of the control factors, namely type of Internet access and level of IT related skills and experience of staff, did not have a significant influence in the model. This can also confirm the belief that the basic technical infrastructures such as telecommunications hardware and software are no longer a major problem in the adoption and diffusion of the internet-based B2B technology in Thailand  7. Limitation and Future research Since this study was conducted in Thailand, it may limit the generalizability of our results beyond the Thai cultural context. Eventhough there are similarities among several Thai cultural values and other Asian countries, one cannot confidently assume that the results will be applicable to all Asian countries. Moreover, our findings may also have limited applicability beyond the tourism industry Another limitation is that subjects of this study were representatives of the sub-population of firms that already had some \(often limited\xperience in adopting and utilising e-mail and e-marketplace technologies. These firms tend to have higher technological readiness than non-adopters. However within our scope of study, it can be argued that the researchers may have difficulty in obtaining useful information from the non-adopters as they have no experience in using B2B technology  Future research in this domain can be extended in a number of ways. A duplication of this study can be done using a larger sample size, a variety of industrial contexts and a variety of countries particularly in western contexts characterized by individualism rather than collectivism. This will help strengthen the validity of this research. A better understanding of such isomorphic pressures may well lead to an improvement in B2B technology adoption utilisation, and performance  8. References 1 R. Brislin  B a c k tra n sla tion f o r c r oss-c u ltura l research Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology vol 1, pp. 186-216, 1970  K Bu rke T h e I m p act o f F i r m S i ze o n Int ern e t Use i n  Small Businesses Electronic Markets vol. 15, pp. 79 93, 2005  W  Ch i n  Issu es an d op i n i o n on s t ru ct u r al equ a t i o n  modeling MIS Quarterly vol. March, 1998  W  Ch i n   P erson a l co mm u n i cat i o n t o t h e research er in conversation at the University of New South Wales,"  Australia, 2006 5 W  Chin, B  Ma rc oli n a nd P. Ne w s te d, "A pa rtia l le a s t squares latent variables modeling approach for measuring interaction effects: Results from a Monte Carol simulation study and an electronic-mail emotion/adoption study Information Systems Research vol. 14, pp. 189-217, 2003 6 G  Churc hill  A pa ra digm  f o r de v e loping be tte r measures of marketing constructs Journal of Marketing Research vol. 16, 1979 7 L  Cornba c h   T e s t V a lida tion   in Educational Measurement vol. 2nd edn, R. Thorndike, Ed Wahsington D.C.: American Council on Education 1971, pp. 443-507 8 Q  D a i a nd R K a uf fm a n  B us ine s s m ode ls  f o r Internet based B2B electronic markets International Journal of Electronic Commerce vol. 6, pp. 41-72 2002 9 R. F. Dev e llis Scale Development: Theory and Applications USA: SAGE, 1991 10  P. J  D i Ma g g i o a n d W  W   P o w e ll T he Iron Ca g e  Revisited: Institutional Isomorphism and Collective Rationality in Organisational Fields American Sociological Review vol. 48, pp. 147-160, 1983 11 C. For n e ll a n d D. L a rc k e r E va lua ting struc tura l equation models with unobservable vriables and measurement error Journal of Marketing Research vol. 19, 1981 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


12  D  G oodh ue a n d R  L  T hom ps on  T as k tec hnol og y  fit and individual performance MIS Quarterly pp 213-236, 1995 1 P  Hem p el an d Y Kw o n g  B2 B  e-co mmerc e in  emerging economies: i-mental.com's non-ferrous metals exchanges in China Journal of Strategic Management vol. 10, pp. 335-355, 2001 14 G   Ho fsted e Cultures and organisations: Software of the mind USA: McGraw-Hill, 1991 1 J. Hu m p h r ey   B u s in ess to bu sin e ss e-co mm erc e an d  access to global markets: exclusive or inclusive outcomes?," 2002, Retrieved: 27 September 2004 from  www.gapresearch.org/production ecommerce.html 16  J  H u m phre y R. Ma ns e ll, D   P a re a nd H  Sc hm itz  The reality of e-commerce with developing countries.", 2003. Retrieved: 27 September 2004, from www.gapresearch.org/production/ ecommerce.html 17 L  M. H unte r  C. J  K a s o ul, K  G  Ce luc h a n d K  A   Curry, "A classification of business-to-business buying decision: Risk importance and probability as a framework for e-business benefits Industrial Marketing Management vol. 33, pp. 145-154, 2004 1 A  In trap airo t and A  S r ivih o k  T h e e-co mmerce o f  SMEs in Thailand," in E-Commerce and Culture Values T. Thanasakit, Ed.: IDEA Group Publishing 2003, pp. 119-219 19  F. K a e f e r a nd E. B e nd oly   M e a sur i ng t h e im pa c t of  organisational constraints on the success of businessto-business e-commerce efforts: a transactional focus Journal of information and Management vol. 41, pp 529-541, 2004 20 T  Koa nna ta k ool E v a lua ting Na tiona l E-c o m m e r c e  Strategies," in the Joint UNCTAD-UNESCAP AsiaPacific Regional Conference on E-commerce strategies for development Bangkok, Thailand, 2002 21 S Ko m i n   Psychology of the Thai People vol. 2nd edn. Bangkok, Thailand: National Institute of Development Administration \(NIDA\, 1991 2 H L i an g N S a raf  Q Hu  an d Y Xu e  A ssi m i l a tio n  of enterprise systems: the effect of institutional pressures and the mediating role of top management MIS Quarterly vol. 31, pp. 59-87, 2007 23 K   Ma hb uba ni Can Asian Think Singapore: Time Books International, 1998 24  S. M o o d le y  T he pote n tia l of Int e rne t ba s e d b u s i ne s s to-business electronic commerce for a 'technology follower': the case of the South African apparel sector International Journal of Internet and Enterprise Management vol. 1, 2003 2 NE C T C  i o n a l E l e ct ro ni c and Co m p u t er Technology Center, "Thailand ICT Indicators Ministry of Science,        Technology and Environment, Ed. Thailand, 2005 26  S. N g a o rung s i IT D i re c t or of the  T ouris m  A u thority  of Thailand, author, Ed. Bangkok, 2004 27 P. O Re illy a nd P  Fi nne g a n P e r f o r m a n c e in Electronic Marketplaces: Theory in Practice Electronic Markets vol. 15, pp. 23-27, 2005 28  P. G  P r e m k u m a r I nte r org a nis a tion s y s t em s a nd supply chain management: An information processing perspective Information systems management vol summer, 2000 2 S  Rao  C   P e rry  an d L  F r azer T h e i m p act o f  Internet use on inter-firm relationships in Australian service industries Australasian Marketing Journal vol. 11, 2003 3 M  Rask an d H Kragh  M o t i v es f o r em a r k et p l ace participation: Differences and similarities between buyers and suppliers Electronic Markets vol. 14, pp 270-283, 2004 3 S  Ro tc h a n a kitu m n u a i an d M   S p eece B arriers to  Internet banking adoption: a qualitative study among corporate customers in Thailand International Journal of Bank Marketing vol. 21, pp. 312-323 2003 32  S. Sa ha de v a n d N  Is la m   E x p loring the  determinations for e-commerce usage in the hotel industry in Thailand: An empirical study Information Technology & Tourism vol. 7, 2005 3 S  S o o r an gu ra  P r esi d en t o f t r avel agen t asso ci at i o n  o f  Thailand, author, Ed. Bangkok, 2004 34 M. R Su bra m a ni H o w Do Sup p lie rs Be ne f it f r o m  Information Technology Use in Supply Chain Relationships MIS Quarterly vol. 28, 2004 35  M. R   Su br a m a n i a nd N   Ve nk a t r a m a n S af e g ua r d ing  investments in asymmetric interorganisational relationships: Theory and evidence Academy of Management Journal vol. 46, pp. 46-62, 2003 36 H  H  T e o, K  K  W e i, a n d I. Be n b a s a t  P re dic t i n g  intention to adopt interorganisational linkage: An institutional perspective MIS Quaterly vol. 27, pp 19-49, March 2003 37  H  H  T e o a nd C  R a ng a n a t ha n  A dopte r s a nd no nadopters of business to business electronic commerce in Singapore Journal of Information Management 2004 38  TA T  ourism  A u thority of T h a i la nd I nc om e expenditure report of tourism sector in year 2005 TAT, Ed. Thailand, 2005 39 E. T u rba n D  K i ng J  L e e  M. W a rk e n tin, a n d H   Chung Electronic Commerce: A managerial perspective USA: Prentice hall, 2002 40  U N C TA D  U n ite d N a tion Co nf e r e n c e on T r a d e a nd Development, "E-Commerce and Development Report," UNCTAD, Ed., 2005 41  S Va ta na s a k d a k ul J  D Ambra An Exploratory study of the socio-cultural impact on the adoption of e-commerce for firms in the tourism industry of Thailand, 14th European Conference on Information System, Goteborg, Sweden, 2006 42  S Va ta na s a k d a k ul J  D Ambra A conceptual model for e-commerce adoption in developing countries: a task-technology fit perspective International Journal of Information Technology and Management  vol. 6, no.2-4, 2007 43  D  L  Za ha y a nd R. B. H a ndf ie ld  T he role of le a r ning  and technical capabilities in predicting adoption of B2B technologies," Industrial Marketing Management, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 627, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


