MAINTENANCE BEHAVIOU R BASED PREDICTION SYSTEM USING DATA MINING Pedro Bastos, Rui Lopes Lu\355s Pires, Tiago Pedrosa Instituto Polit\351cnico de Bragan\347a, Ca mpus de Santa Apol\363nia, Apartado 1038 - 5301-854 Bragan\347a- Portugal bastos@ipb.pt, rlopes@ipb.pt, luica@ipb.pt, pedrosa@ipb.pt  Abstract  In the last years we have assisted to several and deep changes in industrial manufacturing Induced by the need of increasing efficiency, bigger flexibility, better quality and lower costs, it became more complex. The complexity of this new scenario has caused big pressure under enterprises production systems and consequently in its maintenance systems Manufacturing systems recognize high level costs due equipment breakdown, motivated by the time spent to repair, which corresponds to no production time and scrapyard, and also money spent in repair actions Usually, enterprises do not share data produced from their maintenance interventions. This investigation intends to create an organizational architecture that integrates data produced in factories on their activities of reactive, predictive and preventive maintenance The main idea is to develop a decentralized predictive maintenance system based on data mining concepts Predicting the possibility of breakdowns with bigger accuracy will increase systems reliability Keywords  Management, maintenance, data mining, ecollaboration protocols, reference architectures I  INTRODUCTION  Global competition has forced manufacturing enterprises to reduce costs, increase quality and efficiency, and be more flexible, in order to sustain their competitiveness [2; 14 En terp rises h a v e h a d  the need to cope with market expectations incorporating in their production philosophies new paradigms such as JIT- Just in time, MTO- Make to order, Mass Customization, agile manufacturing or Lean Manufacturing. This posture allows them to compete in markets with a big diversity of products and also big quantities, becoming therefore more competitive. Following this path, enterprises must also incorporate information and communication technologies as one more of their strategic and operational components C o m p u t er n e t w orks and telecommunication systems are also a valuable element of the development of virtual collaborations  ci n g  u n dou bt edl y t h e i m pact of g e o g raphy  and drawn nations and individuals closer together The complexity of this new scenario has caused big pressure under enterprises maintenance systems Maintenance mission is to make equipment and facilities available when requested.  Maintenance function, seen as a non value aggregator one became more and more requested to contribute to cost reduction, based on bigger and consistent equipment reliability. This perspective is stressed when enterprises existing equipment has an advanced service life. It is expected a profusion of breakdowns at those scenarios and consequently a smaller usability of equipment driving to less productivity From an economic perspective, maintenance function is seen to the enterprise as a cost [1 In  fact, experience shows that a major percentage of the overall costs of the business concerns with maintenan o n s iderin g t h i s pers pectiv e  decreasing costs with equipment operationalization will increase maintenance productivity and consequently overall productivity h i s paper intend to focus on this matter as we believe that globalization could also be an opportunity to increase equipment reliability  II  BACKGROUND   Maintenance   Usually equipment breakdown is directly connected with inspection costs, repair costs as well as costs associated with non production time or equipment non utilization. The quality of the maintenance that is performed affects directly the performance level of a specific business or activity  Breakdowns, usually, have big impact because they may affect negatively the outputs of the system, security, environmental health, quality client service, competiveness or unit costs Maintenance policy must be effective in the utilization of resources \(people, materials, reposition parts, tools, etc.\tenance costs are dependent not only on the maintenance team but also on equipment operators and/or designer 2487 


 Technologies used by maintenance function are in an open path of discovery of applications that will stop performance deterioration. Maintenance teams must decide which techniques are more suitable to each situation having in mind that a wise choice must increase systems efficiency as well as reducing global costs. An erroneous choice could be the source of new problems while the existent ones could became worse than they were before Maintenance process is usually performed by integration of maintenance and process engineering functions at the phase of selection and application of machines and equipment; and also through proactive actions on those machines and equipments that will necessarily passes by preventive and predictive maintenan So m eti m es c h ang e s at  the project are also considered.  In literature it is possible to find three generic types of maintenance 4   Corrective maintenance, consisting in repair actions when some equipment or machine fails. The equipment is in action until the moment that it fails. At that moment it will be repaired or changed. The main disadvantages of this approach included fluctuant and unpredictable production, high levels of nonconform products and scrapyard as well as high levels of maintenance due interventions motivated by catastrophic fails [16    Preventive maintenance, characterized for periodic maintenance operations in order to avoid equipment fails or machinery breakdowns, bases its functionality in manufactures manuals and some heuristics    Predictive maintenance uses some indicator values to \223feel\224 when some breakdown is eminent. This type of maintenance intends to make interventions on machinery before malicious events may occur  Data Mining Nowadays the databases are associated with all the activity areas, resulting in an accumulation of large amounts of data. However, the existence of large quantities of data by itself does not imply the possession of knowledge; this existence is just the first step in obtaining information and knowledge After data processing the results lead to knowledge that can be used in monitoring, analysis and process prediction [15  T h e p a th w h ic h start s  w i t h t h e  existence of data to obtain knowledge passes through intermediate steps such as obtaining information or facts, or by the establishment of rules or values Data mining is defined to be the exploration and analysis, by automatic or semiautomatic means, of large quantities of data stored either in databases data warehouses, or other information repositories to discover interesting knowledge including meaningful patterns and rules In g e n e ral, th e  Data Mining term is the process of analyzing data from different perspectives, categorizing them and summarizing identified relations in order to return useful and usable information. Technically it can be seen as the process to find or identify correlations or patterns among dozens of fields in large relational databases h i c h ca n al s o be dat a w a reh o u s e s or other information repositories h e m o s t us ed  techniques in Data Mining are Artificial Neural Networks: Consisting in a non linear predictive model that learns through training their structure is similar to a biological neural network Decision trees: Structures in the shape of a tree representing sets of decisions. These decisions create rules for classification of data sets. The specific methods of the decision trees include Classification Trees and Regression \(CART Classification and Regression Trees\d Chi Square Interactive and Automatic Detection \(CHAID Automatic Interaction Detection Chi Square Genetic algorithms: Optimization technique that uses processes such as genetic combination mutation and natural selection, based on the evolution concept Neighbourhood closer Method: Technique based on the classification of each record of all data on a class combination of k records that resembles more a history of a data deposit. It is sometimes called technique of k closest neighbours Induction Rule: extracts if-then rules from data based on statistical significance  III  SYSTEM FUNCIONALITY   In literature there are some approaches that use data mining concepts to improve manufacturing activities [7 222 t so co m m o n to f i n d ap p r o ach es  that use it to improve the capacity of predicting behaviours based on historical data. In fact, if the case is the possibility of a distributed collaboration of independent enterprises sharing data between them, even if they are competitors, the examples are even reduced We have found some examples which work on historical failure data and provide suggestions for an appropriate preventive maintenance schedule [7  A t  2488 


 the same work exist other references to the utilization of data mining techniques, including decision trees, rough sets, regression, and neural networks to predict component failure based on the data collected from the sensors of an aircraft. Other references to neural networks utilization for prediction effects in maintenance scope are present  or ref e ren ces of equ i p m en t m a i n te n a n ce u s ing optimized support vector machine existent at Databases utilization with statistics is a tool well established in engineering scope. Maintenance activity, as well as other issues, have been influenced and evolved based on information and communication \(ICT\elopments. Technology evolution has lead to an increasing number of data flowing from all the processes of the organization such as product and process design, material planning and control, assembly, scheduling maintenance, recycling, etc [7 th eir acti v it y of reactive, preventive and predictive maintenance enterprises produce huge amounts of information that are stored to build historic profiles that can be helpful in future interventions. Data storage is usually made in a local perspective either in electronic or paper support. Nevertheless, it is known that the integration of those tools not always is effectively achieved Usually, enterprises do not share data produced from their maintenance interventions. This investigation intends to create an organizational architecture that makes the integration of data produced in factories on their maintenance activities The main idea is to develop a decentralized predictive maintenance system based on data mining concepts similar to those that support virtual enterprises functionality Using IDEF0 method the overall functionality will be deeply explained. IDEF0 method is used to specify function models, representing high-level activities of a process and its decomposition in lower hierarchical sub activities or processes. IDEF0 models portrait a view of the process in terms of Inputs, Controls over the process, Outputs, and Mechanisms acting on the process, named ICOM\222s IDEF0 Function Modelling is designed to model decisions, actions, and activities of an organization or system. IDEF0 model notation uses functions and activities abstracted from temporal sequence. The diagrams in this notation show activation \(of functions, processes\ot flow. More information may be found at  Figure 1 shows the main system functionality in IDEF0 format. The overall system is based on three main processes. Remote data management and communication \(A1\; Knowledge prediction system A2\d Information synthesis and event generation A3  A1 activity will be responsible for collecting data that will flow from a local perspective to a higher layer. As outputs, this activity will produce an active knowledge base as a control request knowledge base is triggered from A3 activity, and also a set of specification parameters that were used for data preparation. This activity uses four subactivities \(see Figure 2\. A11 \226 Data request analysis and specification. This activity is responsible for analyse and transform the request settings and perform as output a set of specifications that will control activity A12 responsible for data management and selection  The data collecting process on A12 has to be performed by agents, which will be responsible for adapting and transforming the information. Even when data on the factory floor is collected through maintenance operators \(using a formalized internal registry, for example\is information has to be interpreted by software agents, to adapt and transform the data structures into a semantically viable knowledge base. Agents constitute the local Fig 2: A1 sub-activities in IDEF0 Format Fig 1: Main System in IDEF0 Format I1 Predictive Maintenance data I2 Preventive Maintenance data I3 Reactive Maintenance data I4 Manufacturers data I5 Partners Information C2 Request Knowledge Base C1 Event  Data request analisis and specification A11 Data Management and Selection A12 Knowledge Base definition A13 Decision Support formalization A14 O2 Alert event O1 Status even t Selection specifications Selection constrains O3 A ctive Knowledge Base O4 Specification parameters M2 Communication chanel and tools M1 Prospective Agents M3 Knowledge data engine I6 Behaviour Data Storing Remote data management and communication A1 P. 3 Knowledge Prediction System A2 P. 4 Information Synthesis and event generation A3 Predictive Maintenance data Preventive Maintenance data Reactive Maintenance data Manufacturers data Partners Information Status event Alert event Request Knowledge Base Event Active Knowledge Base Specification parameters C1 Artificial neural networks C6 Data Visualization C2 Rule Induction C3 Nearest neighbor method C5 Genetic Algorithms C4 Decision Trees Behaviour Matrix M1 Prospective Agents M2 Knowledge data engine M3 Pattern recognition Algorithms M4 Communication chanel and tools Behaviour Data Storing 2489 


 layer, and they have to provide information in a common data structure to the upper layer \226 the prediction layer. XML is an adequate technology since it provides a language that can describe the semantics, the syntax as well as the data. Agents collaborating through an XML language, are responsible for integrating all the information in a common format in a common database \(DB Consequently, the XML language has to transport an appropriated specification language that allows describing the sources structure, the structure of the central DB and the transference schema. The information resulting from the local layer \(agents after being adapted and stored in a common database is ready for the data mining in the prediction layer From this activity will be outputted the constrains to regulate the production of the active knowledge base, i.e., the knowledge base that will be used to produce knowledge in A13 activity,  based on a specific set of constrains. Outputs of A13 activity will affect A2 activity and also A14 activity. A14 activity, named Decision support formalization, will output O1 \226 Status event and also O2 \226 Alert event Those outputs should be used by system partners on theirs preventive maintenance systems as the remote decision support system data Both O1 and O2 are triggered by C1, which is the main result of A1 activity recurring to its partner\222s communication capability The main module to produce knowledge and infer partner\222s equipment behaviour is A2, the knowledge prediction system. It is based on three activities. A21 \226 Data mining processing will use the active knowledge base and the parameters that configure the request as information controlled by data mining controlling methods. The outputs of this activity are organizational knowledge, relations identification, data interpretation and rules. All this information will control the pattern behaviour generation module that will transform the active knowledge base, specification parameters and partners information in the behaviour matrix. This behaviour matrix will consequently control the proactive failure detection module to transform partner\222s information in proactive failure notifications. This output intends to advise maintenance responsible to act in their equipment before they fail down. Its functionality is based on deviation analysis of equipment behaviour using data mining algorithms and pattern recognition algorithms The new millennium has brought the consolidation of information and communication technologies \(ICT\ in people life. ICT advances have had deep influence in the way that people live learn, work or use their spare time. From this reality it is impossible to keep out the concept of trust on those technologies. Also in the proposed system ICT represents the element that incorporates trust Managing security tasks such as authentication authorization and access control is a crucial element in environments composed of several and heterogeneous partners.  All the members that cooperate on the system must have mutual trust and a blind confidence on the infrastructure. The resultant information is critical. Therefore should be ensuring that the information which flows from the agents to the database is a secure and trustful one It is also important that the database server only accept information that come from authorized agents. This validation is very important for stopping a malicious agent/user from flooding the database with erroneous information that will make the prediction model untruthful To cope with those needs, the communication should ensure privacy, integrity and non-repudiation A Public Key Infrastructure can be use to create an environment where the previous problems can be overcome. Therefore, it was decided the utilization of this approach as follows  The server will create it\222s public/private key and act as the Certificate Authority on the system,  which means that the server should sign the public key of the authorized agents on the system  Each agent has their own private/public key  The agents uses theirs private and public server key to encrypt the information  The server will only accept data sent by authorized agents  The server decrypts using its private key and only after a previous verification Based on above specifications the system implements privacy, integrity and non-repudiation O1 Request Knowled g e Base I1 Active Knowledge Base I2 Specification parameters C1 Artificial neural networks C2 Rule Induction C3 Nearest neighbor method C4 Decision Trees C5 Genetic Algorithms C6 Data Visualization O2 Behaviour Matrix  Data Mining processing A21 Pattern Behaviour generation A22 Proactive Faillure detection module A23 Organizational Knowledge Relations Identification Data Interpretation Rules M2 Knowledge data engine M3 Pattern recognition Algorithms M1 Communication chanel and tools Proactive faillure notification I3 Partners Information Fig 3: A2 sub-activities in IDEF0 Format 2490 


 Privacy is achieved by sending the information encrypted in a way that only the receiver can decrypt. If the information is tampered during the transmission the signature check will fail and notice assuring that integrity is accomplish. The nonrepudiation is achieved once information sent by the agents is signed  IV  CONCLUSIONS   A globalized world is a place with several challenges and also fulfilled by huge opportunities In this paper it was presented an architecture that explores the benefits of this globalization and uses new technological means to incorporate more accuracy in a prediction system used by industrial maintenance teams. We believe that the existence of large amounts of data could contribute to find new connections and rules of machines behaviour Equipment maintenance prediction is an important and widely studied topic since it has a significant impact on equipment maintenance prediction and reliability. The existent huge amount of data from maintenance actions are not fully used for increase the efficiency of maintenance prediction. Data mining seems to be the step forward that will change the actual state The proposed system will help enterprises to collect, extract and create knowledge in a way that enterprises will predict with more accuracy the moment to realize maintenance actions and thus improve the productivity of manufacturing process The innovative point of this system is the capability of collecting and treats data dispersed in different facilities that result from maintenance interventions in different environments. The contribution of machinery manufacturers it is also a relevant contribution  REFERENCES   f s a r m a n esh  H. an d L  C a m a rinh a Matos 1997\ederated Information Management for Cooperative Virtual Organizations. Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on "Database and Expert System Applications", DEXA'97 LNCS\Toulose, France, Springer Verlag  s al D D  Ev an s  an d B. Jon e s 200 5  Application of a real time predictive maintenance system to a production machine system International Journal of Machine tools and manufacture: 1210-1221 3 Chie n C F  W  C W a ng a n d J  C Che n g  2007\Data mining for yield enhancement in semiconductor. Expert Systems with Applications  192-198  h u   C J. M. Pr ot h an d P. Wol f f 1998  Predictive maintenance:The one-unit replacement model." Int. J. Production Economics: 285-295  e ldm a n n   C  an d J. V. T i es o \(1 998  T h e Practical Guide to Business Process Reengineering Using Idef0. New York, Dorset House  arbi, A an d J P Ken n 351 200 5  M ain t en an c e  scheduling and production control of multi machine manufacturing systems." Computers and Industrial engineering: 693-707  g J., M. S h ah ba s S S r i n i v as e t al  2006\"Data Mining in manufacturing: A review Journal of Manufacturing Science and Engineering 969-976  a u  H K  Ch i n b, K  Pu n b et al 2000  Decision supporting functionality in a virtual enterprise network." Expert Systems with Applications 261-270  uxh oj J  T W illiam s and H. J. Shyur \(1997 Comparation of regression and neural network models for predictionof inspection profiles for aging aircraif." IIE Transactions 91-101  oodl ey S  200 3 Ec om m e rce an d ex port  markets: Small furniture producers in South Africa Journal of Small Business Management 317-324  N a ray a n  V  19 98  T h e rai s on d\222 352t re of  maintenance." Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1355-2511  Pal m er, R  1999  n t e n a n ce pl ann i n g a n d  scheduling handbook. New Jersey, McGraw Hill  P i n j ala S. K., L P i n t elon a an d A Vereeck e  2006\"An empirical investigation on the relationship between business and maintenance strategies." Int. J. Production Economics: 214-229  h i u e, Y  R  2008    D at a-m i ni ngbas e d  dynamic dispatching rule selection mechanism for shop floor control systems using a support vector machine approach." International Journal of Production Research: 1-22  i k o ra, R  an d S   Pi ram u t h u 2005 Ef f i ci e n t  Genetic Algorithm Based Data Mining Using Feature Selection with Hausdorff Distance Information Technology and Management: 315-331  ans on   L  2001    L i nk i ng  m a i n t e n a n c e  strategies to performance." Int. J. Production Economics: 237-244  Wan g  F  K  an d W L ee \(2001  L earn i ng curve analysis in total productive maintenance." The International Journal of Management Science 29 491-499 2491 


  6 Timing the duration of the ground tests was not a stated objective of the test plan, and was not tracked for the early test events. As the program ma tured, it became desirable to track the time required to collect the data since it was showing itself to be a significant factor Figure 12 summarizes the average data gathering time \(i.e. time from the first data trace measurement to the last, including moving from one test connector to the next\he different data acquisition equipment configurations used. These times do not include aircraft preparation time, data acquisition equipment setup or take-down times, or aircraft close up time; which were not tracked, but were consistent independent of the data acqui sition equipment configuration used. For the final ground test, an innovative data acquisition equipment interface configuration \(our third utilizing optical splitters, was used in an attempt to significantly reduce testing time since it was becoming a significant factor  The following observations can be made from the Figure 12 data  1\The testing time required for the manual probe and patch panel data acquisition equipm ent interface configurations were comparable to each other, given a two person test team and given the probe interface to be working well, which was not always the case 2\A two person test team was beneficial in reducing testing time, compared to one person, when using the manual-labor intensive confi gurations \(manual probe and patch panel 3\ent interface configuration was 4 times faster than either the manual probe or patch panel configura tions, given a two person test team. Being a much less manual-labor intensive set-up, it is unlikely a second person added much efficiency to the optical splitter method  The differences between the original test equipment arrangement and the final \223double ended\224 arrangement incorporating \223optical splitters\224 is depicted in Figure 13  Test Harnesses 226 One harness had an overbraid that included fiber optic cable and fiber optic connectors. The over-braid harness chosen for th e safety of flight tests was the APP Harness of the CH-53E aircraft and is the harness mounted around the outside of the plate shown in Figure 14 A second harness was modified with fiber optic sense shield known as the \223alternate embodiment.\224 The \223alternate embodiment\224 is a fiber optic wrap that can be wrapped around a wire harness and is secured by Velcro strips attached along the edges of the fiber optic wrap. It also includes a fiber optic connector or connectors. This 223alternate embodiment\224 harness was chosen as a test harness for the Results of Wi re Harness Fiber Optic Chafe Detection Safety of Flight Tests for CH-53. Aircraft Flight Demonstration safety of flight tests were completed for the APP harness and Main Rotor Pylon harness #10 of the CH53E aircraft. The Main Rotor Pylon Harness #10 is mounted in the middle of the plate shown in Figure 14  Summary of CH-53E Safety of Flight Results 226 The two representative harnesses did not suffer damage during safety of flight testing. The wire harnesses, fiber optic sense shields, and fiber optic connectors did not become or create FOD \(Foreign Object Debris\The \223conventional\224 wire harnesses were not damaged by the fiber optic sense shields The fiber optic sense shields and fiber optic connectors were functional after safety of flight tests    Figure 11 OTDR Test Result:  Gun Bay Door 10 ft OTDR break   OTDR 1x2 splitter 1x8 splitter 1x8 splitter Sense shield 8 optical fibers 8 optical fibers OTDR Single  ended test OTDR Double ended test 225 Dual-Ended Single Test Measures All Fibers at Once 225 Reduces Testing Time 225 Requires an Optical Splitter OTDR 1x2 splitter 1x8 splitter 1x8 splitter Sense shield 8 optical fibers 8 optical fibers OTDR Single  ended test OTDR Double ended test 225 Dual-Ended Single Test Measures All Fibers at Once 225 Reduces Testing Time 225 Requires an Optical Splitter   Figure 13 - Dual End CHAPS Cable Test Method Used in CH-53E Fli g ht Testin g  Equipment Interface Configuration Number of Test Personnel Average Time per Data Point Measurement Total Data Measurement Time for 6 Sense Shields Manual Probe 2 1 Min., 35 Sec 2 Hrs., 32 Min 16-Port Patch Panel 2 1 Min., 37.5 Sec 2 Hrs., 36 Min 16-Port Patch Panel 1 2 Min., 23 Sec 3 Hrs., 49 Min Optical Splitters 2 0 Min., 24 Sec 38 Min  Figure 12 \226 Average Time Required for Each Measurement 


  7  6  CHAPS-HM  L ABORATORY T ESTS AND D EMONSTRATIONS  The Boeing Company has established an \221Operational Environment\222 facility for Integrated Vehicle Health Management \(IVHM\means develop and refine on- and off- vehicle health management technologies in a realistic environment.  A realistic environment includes sensors, subsystem \(target\ components, processors, and communication buses that are qualified for flight, or representative thereof.  Th e focus is to reduce risk associated with implementation, deployment and delivery of IVHM products. This Operational Environment is the venue for the development and evaluation of CHAPS technology  A number of CHAPS enabled cables were built to test the ability to send and receive data through fiber optic sensors The six foot long CHAPS cable shown in Figure 15 is used to carry pre-recorded IVHM data from one laptop computer to another  A serial port transceiver converts the electrical signal from the serial port of one laptop into photonic signals, the CHAPS cable is the transport medium, and another transceiver converts the photonic signal back to serial electrical communication, which is displayed on the second computer.  The transceivers we re selected based solely on convenience rather than performance or size.   This desktop 221system\222 proved to be perfectly capable of accurately conveying data at the maximum capability of the computers\222 serial ports, 128Kbit/sec  Another desktop evaluation explored more direct sensor data transfer.  A triaxial accel erometer was selected, and a small interface module applied to provide power to the accelerometer and convert its output to a serial data stream 115.2Kbits/sec\n, the serial to photonic transceiver converts this serial information and injects it onto the optical fiber of the test cable.  The second laptop computer was again able to receive accurate sensor data independently of the electrical content of the copper wire bundle.  This system is shown in Figure 16  7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This work by KMM and Boeing has prototyped a set of technologies that offer an affordable, low footprint approach to protect against wire chafing and as well as contribute to the implementation of CBM in legacy or new platforms  CHAPS protected cables have been incorporated as a normal part of aircraft wiring have shown and proven in the flight test programs described above to be very durable over time and flight conditions \(including F/A-18F flight environmental levels\de an affordable means of providing protection and detection of chafing where it has not been possible to do so otherwise.  In the larger view, the combination of CHAPS and CHAPS-HM technologies offer the following   Figure 15 \226 Sampling Rates of Health Management Data Sources  Figure 16 \226 CHAPS Enabled Cable Communicates Accelerometer Data   Figure 14 - Safety of Flight Test Harnesses 


  8 200  Affordable, low cost footprint technology to implement chafing protection and IVHM 200  Are attractive for applications where both chafing protection and IVHM support is needed 200  Relatively passive technologies that minimize certification costs 200  A high bandwidth network to communicate everything form raw sensor data to lower bandwidth processed data 200  A capability whose concept has been demonstrated in the laboratory  The integration of these technologies, to implement support critical communications of health management data onboard aircraft, requires considerati on of the required bandwidth and processing demands and the inherent wiring architecture of the host aircraft. The success of CHAPS/CHAPS-HM requires careful consideration as to the impact on maintenance, weight penalty and the value of the chafing detection and IVHM capability enabled. It is recognized that CHAPS/CHAPS-HM technology is not likely to be a comprehensive answer to low cost IVHM implementation by itself but offers value when used in situations \(e.g., cables associat ed with power distribution where the dual use nature of the technologies provide significant cost/benefit and/or offer value when coupled with other communications technologies \(e.g., wireless Future work will address the creation of hybrid communications networks to implement IVHM and on interfaces to health ready subsystems 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The development and testing of the CHAPS technology was supported by the NAVAIR Electrical Power Division Naval Air Systems Command, AIR 4.4.5.2 NAWC Patuxent River, MD. Specifically, the authors would like to thank Nathan Kumbar and Sean Field for their support and contributions R EFERENCES  1. Flotow, Andreas von and Drumm, Michael J., \223Blade-Tip Monitoring with Through-the-Case Eddy Current Sensors\224 Sensors, E-News Letters, Vol 21, No. 6, June 2004 2. Sensors Magazine: www.sensorsmag.com 3. Field, Sean, \223Military Efforts to Cope with Wiring Woes in Aging Aircraft Promise Re lief for Commercial Geriatic Jets\224, Air Safety Week, Oct 2, 2000 4. \223Optical Phase Domain Re flectometer\224 Boeing Attorney Docket No. 06-0751, US Patent Application Number 20080094615  5. \223Apparatus and Method for Establishing an Optical Path Spanning a Discontinuity in an Optical Channel\224 Boeing Attorney Docket No. 09-0435, filed August 10, 2009  6. \223Apparatus and Method for Detecting Conduit Chafing\224 U.S. Patent No. 6,265,881 Issued July 24, 2001, Frank H Born; Roy F. Stratton; Lamar R. Harris 7. \223Apparatus and method for Monitoring Electrical Cable Chafing via Optical Waveguides\224 U.S. Patent No 6,949,933 Issued September 27, 2005, Thomas L. Weaver 8. \223Systems and Method for Collecting Data in a Vehicle\224 Boeing Attorney Docket No. 08-0146, filed May 14, 2008 B IOGRAPHIES  Charles E. Morris is an expert in Electrical System Design and Analysis and has 26 years of experience in the areas of mechanical, electrical and electromechanical systems analysis and design.  Mr. Morris is currently the Principal Investigator for the CHAPS Wire Chafing and Detection System and has participated as Deputy Program Manager in the AEPHM Aircraft Electrical Prognostics and Health Management program for development of Aircraft Electrical Power Generator prognostics and health management as well as providing engineering analysis support to Directed Energy Subsystem Concepts IRAD. Mr Morris has the following educational background: BSAE University of Missouri-Rolla; MBA, University of Minnesota; Associate Degree Electrical Technology \226 St Louis Community College and BSEE University of Missouri-St. Louis. Mr. Morris is a registered Professional Engineer  Dr. Kirby Keller is a Technical Fellow for the Boeing Company.  He has 34 years experience in the systems engineering and mission systems for air and space vehicles His current duties include Technical Lead for the Integrated Vehicle Health Management programs within the Support and Services Thrust of Boeing Research and Technology.  In this position, he is the principal investigator and system designer for sever al internal research and development projects that are focused on developing a Boeing wide common architecture and best practices for IVHM.  He holds a PhD in Mathematics from Iowa State University and is the author of over 40 technical papers conference presentations, and technical reports  Kevin Swearingen is a systems designer/ developer for Boeing's Research and Technology research division Kevin\222s technical expertise includes intelligent software fuzzy logic, neural net, expert, and rule-based\ systems design and development, obj ect-oriented software development, and air vehicle hardware and software integration.  He was th e designer/developer for the Integrated Vehicle Health Management \(IVHM\ risk reduction demonstrations of the Air Force Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle \(UCAV\, as well as the Reconfigurable Control and Fault Identification System \(RCFIS\ program demonstrations and the applications of Data Mining technologies to F/A-18 performance data to improve health 


  9 prediction \(prognostic\ capability Mr. Swearingen holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Missouri   Dan Hedger is Vice President of Killdeer Mountain Manufacturing.  He received a Bachelors of Science from Texas A&M University.  He lives near Kerrville, TX.  Dan works to provide electronic and electromechanical fabrication opportunities for his family's business located in western North Dakota.  He also devotes a portion of his time toward the research and development pursuits of the company.  These company R&D areas include flight test military supply chain enhancement and several aerospace oriented diagnostic/prognostic sensor development program areas 


 Phillip A P o rras a nd Ric h ard A  K emmerer Covert ow trees A technique for identifying and analyzing covert storage channels In Proceedings of the 1991 Symposium on Security and Privacy  1991  Ronald L Riv e st and J ohn P  W ac k On the Notion of Software Independece in Voting Systems http://vote.nist.gov SI-in-voting.pdf  July 2006  Marv Sc haefer B arry Gold R ic hard Linde and John Scheid Program Con“nement in KVM/370 In Proceedings of the 1977 ACM Annual Conference  pages 404…410 Oct 1977  Bruce S c hneier a nd John Kelsey  S ecure Audit Logs to Support Computer Forensics ACM Transactions on Information and System Security TISSEC  2\(2 May 1999  Alec Y a sinsac and M att B ishop Of P a p e r Trails and Voter Receipts In Proceedings of the 2008 Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences  January 2008  Alec Y a sinsac and M att B ishop The D ynamics of Counting and Recounting Votes IEEE Security and Privacy Magazine  6\(3 May/June 2008  Alec Y a sinsac D a vid W agner M att B ishop Ted Baker Breno de Medeiros Gary Tyson Michael Shamos and Mike Burmester Software Review and Security Analysis of the ES&S iVotronic 8.0.1.2 Voting Machine Firmware Final Report For the Florida Department of State  Security and Assurance in Information Technology Laboratory Florida State University Tallahassee Florida February 23 2007  Dmitrii Z agoro dno v Keith M arzullo Lorenzo Alvisi and Thomas C Bressoud Engineering Fault-Tolerant TCP/IP Servers Using FTTCP In Proceedings of the 2003 International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks DSN  2003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Service Description Service Data Entity Replica Processing Unit Network Device Invoke Derive Specific Quality Non-Functional Performance Requirement Storage Unit Workstation User Profile Application Constraint Availability Transition Functional Data Entity Operation Behavior Utilization Network Process Capacity Module Initiate Invoke Initiate Server Role Load Site Node Call Requirements satisfied by Network Infrastructure View Requirements satisfied by Topology View Requirements satisfied by Functional View 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 source-outgoing source-outgoing target-incoming 1 1 1 1 outgoing1-source1 target -incoming1 source outgoing target incoming target1 incoming source outgoing1 1 1 source outgoing target 


target incoming target incoming target incoming source outgoing Figure 6. EIS System Network View Meta-model operations are those used for service description and must be ultimately decomposed into elementary ones \(i.e. data processing, storing and transferring are estimated through parameter values that are propagated by service invocation parameters to parameters describing application operations constituting the service description which are further propagated to parameters describing elementary operations 4.3. EIS Architecture Design Task Implementation EIS Architecture Design tasks may be supported by existing tools [20]. Systems Modeling Language \(SysML 15] is considered as the most appropriate for EIS System Network model representation and requirement engineering, since it supports the concepts of requirements and resource allocation. As a direct consequence, SysML allows the representation of requirements as model elements which means that requirements are part of the system architecture. For representation purposes, a SysML pro?le for EIS System Network meta-model \(?gure 6 mented as a plugin to MagicDraw modeling tool [2]. In order to facilitate model exchangeability, EIS System Network model is being realized in XML, which is a standard exchangeable format. In order to exchange data with speci?c software tools, model transformations will be accomplished through appropriate XSLTs developed for each tool for example as the one transforming XMI to the EIS System Network document type description \(DTD 5. Case Study In the following we discuss the case of renovating a legacy information system supporting a large-scale public organization based on the proposed concepts. The organization supports more than 350 interconnected regional of?ces and its main purpose is to provide services to the public both citizens and businesses. Regional of?ces are divided into three categories according to their size and information infrastructure requirements \(large, medium and small More than 15.000 employees work in the organization having on-line access to the legacy system. There are more than 300 different services provided to the public, while each citizen is required to register in the one belonging to his/her residential area, called residential of?ce. Some of them require the actual presence of citizens in their residential of?ce Existing system architecture is based on a fat clientserver architecture. All application logic is programmed within the client platform, while data is distributed in local database servers located in each regional of?ce. A Central database is supported in the Datacenter for data synchronization and lookup purposes. The Datacenter and all regional of?ces participate in a private TCP/IP network to facilitate ef?cient data replication. Most data related to a speci?c citizen are maintained as local data in his/her residential of?ce. Client programs access the local database to store data, while they access the central database mostly for lookup purposes. Local data are asynchronously replicated in the central database using a transaction management system \(TMS Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 to facilitate communication with the central database. The central database provides the overall view of each citizen  s record 


record To enhance the level of services provided by the organization, we decided to establish an enhanced e-services environment through an e-government portal. The main target of the portal is to minimize the need for citizen  s presence in regional of?ces and intents to deal with all the drawbacks of the current e-service platform. It provides easy access to citizens and businesses twenty four hours per day, seven days per week. It also promotes the increase of e-services to users, facilitating the organization to accomplish its strategic goals. The portal facilitates on-line transactional services and ensures on-line access to the databases of the legacy information system Provision of transactional e-services re?ects the operation of the legacy system and thus results in its renovation. In order to effectively support both systems \(e.g the portal and the legacy system able to apply the same policies and minimize maintenance cost. Thus, it was decided to explore the renovation of the legacy information system by adopting modern technological trends, such as multi-tiered application architecture server-based computing and light clients. It was decided also to rewrite application code based on J2EE architecture to develop a web interface for the legacy information system in order to support a uni?ed environment for both the legacy system and the portal. This decision affected the legacy system architecture, described in System Network View. Some of issues raised included: \(a database architecture? It is currently distributed. Should it become centralized? What are the implications in the network infrastructure? \(b complished to minimize maintenance cost Though EA was never fully described, the organization had already decided to establish an EA based on Zachman framework a few years ago. RUPmethodology was used for software development, thus application description models were developed within Rational Rose platform. In order to be able to apply the proposed tasks identi?ed in section 4, relative information had to be extracted from the corresponding cells. Application description \(e.g. applications and modules tracted from corresponding Rational Rose ?les. Though the process was not automated, the provision of System Network meta-model, helped architecture designer to identify the information needed to obtain from software designers Detailed service description in terms of load requirements could not be extracted from software description. This was crucial in order to decide upon Intranet and Datacenter architecture. This information was collected by interviewing software developers The new system has to deal with a number of require&lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office oracle L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt tuxido L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department tuxido Central 


tuxido Central lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt R.O. server room lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt oracle net lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt tuxido lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt application lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt Figure 7. Topology View - Existing System ments, with security and availability being the most important ones. Security issues have to do with the security of the network, security of data, authentication control, etc. Availability requirements deal with the backup subsystem, the recovery system and high availability UPS. Privacy must be enforced with the use of cryptography and compression techniques. All these requirements were identi?ed during the System Architecture design process and consequently exported in System Motivation cell where all system requirements are gathered using a simpli?ed text-based requirement description method System Architecture design tasks were performed by existing tools already described in [20]. The existence of System Network meta-model and its implementation in XML facilitated tool integration and interoperability. The identi?cation of primary EIS engineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows and columns facilitated a better understanding between software developers, architecture designers and organization management and enhanced discrete methodology integration. Existing and renovated application architecture of the legacy system de?ned by Topology View are presented in ?gures 7 and 8 respectively. The screenshots are from the MagicDraw [2] tool, enhanced with EIS pro?le to provide the appropriate functionality 6. Conclusions &amp; Future Work MB-EISE process based on Zachman framework was explored in the paper. The designer may adjust basic MB-EISE activity model for each cell, formulate a methodology-independent EIS cell-related view, and ?nally identify methods and tools appropriate for implementing each speci?c task. One could argue that in such a case, 36 distinct EIS sub-views should be de?ned, each of them being rather complex, while basic MB-EISE activity should be adjusted 36 times, resulting in a very complicated process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Application Server lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt 


lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt web browser lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Web Server lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer &lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt Figure 8. Topology View - Renovated System However, EIS engineering process, as enterprise architecture, is itself complex. The bene?t of the proposed approach is that all aspects \(simple or complex form and modular fashion. Cell-related sub-views and corresponding meta-models, as well as cell-related MB-EISE activity model may be progressively formed according to the designer  s priorities and perspectives Having a black-box view of each Zachman cell, the proposed approach focuses on EIS view integration and interview consistency. The notion of external entities when de?ning EIS cell-related views provides the means for interoperability with external cells, while at the same time facilitates atomicity within the limits of each cell. We are currently emphasizing Business and System rows, and especially Function and Network cells, exploring in parallel Motivation column and the way non-functional requirements are managed Having a white-box view of each Zachman cell, it is evident that the de?nition of a technology neutral metamodel and the identi?cation of basic engineering tasks, corresponding to EIS cell-related views, contributes to the integration of different methodologies and tools. A library of EIS System Network models has been already implemented in XML. Emphasis is given to requirements management and especially requirements derivation References 1] Institute For Enterprise Architecture Developments http://www.enterprise-architecture.info 2] MagicDraw UML. http://www.magicdraw.com 3] A. Aurum and C. Wohlin. Engineering and Managing Software Requirements. Springer, 2005 4] F. S. d. Boer, M. M. Bonsangue, J. Jacob, A. Stam, and L. W N. v. d. Torre. A Logical Viewpoint on Architectures. In EDOC, pages 73  83. IEEE Computer Society, 2004 5] E. R. Byrne. IEEE Standard 830: Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Speci?cations, 1998 6] B. Dave and D. Jim. The new, improved RUP SE Architecture Framework, 2005. IBM Rational Edge 7] D. J. de Villiers. Using the Zachman Framework to assess RUP. Rational Edge, 2001 8] J. A. Estefan. Survey of Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE May 2007 9] A. Fatolahi and F. Shams. An investigation into applying UML to the Zachman Framework. Information Systems Frontiers, 8\(2  143, 2006 10] M. Glinz. On non-functional Requirements. 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2007 11] F. Goethals, W. Lemahieu, M. Snoeck, and J. Vandenbulcke. An overview of enterprise architecture framework deliverables. In Banda RKJ \(ed Introduction. ICFAI University Press., 2006 12] H.-P. Hoffmann. Harmony-SE/SysML Deskbook: ModelBased Systems Engineering with Rhapsody, Rev. 1.51 Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 


Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 13] IEEE. IEEE Recommended Practice for Architectural Description for Software-Intensive Systems - Std 1471. Technical report, oct 2000 14] O. M. G. Inc. UML 2.0 Superstructure Speci?cation, October 2004 15] O. M. G. Inc. Systems Modeling Language \(SYSML i?cation. Version 1.0, September 2007 16] INCOSE. INCOSE Handbook SE Process Model, September 2003. http://g2sebok.incose.org 17] Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers. IEEE Std 15288 -2004, Systems Engineering -System Life Cycle Processes, June 2005 18] A. v. Lamsweerde. Goal-Oriented Requirements Engineering: A Guided Tour. In Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering \(RE  01 19] S. Leist and G. Zellner. Evaluation of current architecture frameworks. In H. Haddad, editor, SAC, pages 1546  1553 ACM, 2006 20] M. Nikolaidou and N. Alexopoulou. Enterprise Information System Engineering: A Model-Based Approach Based on the Zachman Framework. In HICSS  08. IEEE Computer Society, 2008 21] M. Nikolaidou and D. Anagnostopoulos. A systematic approach for con?guring web-based information systems Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 17\(3  290, May 2005 22] C. M. Pereira and P. Sousa. A method to de?ne an Enterprise Architecture using the Zachman Framework. In H. Haddad A. Omicini, R. L. Wainwright, and L. M. Liebrock, editors SAC, pages 1366  1371. ACM, 2004 23] K. Pohl and E. Sikora. Supporting the Co-Design of Requirements and Architectural Artifacts. In 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference \(RE  07 pages 258  261, India Habitat Center, New Delhi, 2007 24] J. Schekkerman. How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 25] J. F. Sowa and J. A. Zachman. Extending and Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture. IBM Systems Journal, 31\(3  616, 1992 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





