  1 Condition Based Maintenance of Military Ground Vehicles Eric Rabeno \(410\ 278-3051 Mark Bounds \(410\8-7493 US Army Materiel Systems Analysis Activity \(AMSAA 392 Hopkins Road Bldg 392 \(AMSRD-AMS-LA Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 21005-5071 eric.l.rabeno@us.army.mil , mark.s.bounds@us.army.mil  Abstract 227The performance of military ground vehicle systems quickly degrades due to high operation tempo and extreme environments while pe rforming in-theater service Current maintenance methods associated with this degradation are not sufficiently optimized for cost and 
performance. To address this issue, the United States Army is implementing a policy of Condition Based Maintenance CBM\d being supported by the Army Materiel System Analysis Activity \(AMSAA\CBM is a plan of maintenance for a system based upon the actual condition of the system as enabled by the applicatio n of usage, diagnostic and prognostic processes executed on a Health and Usage Monitoring System \(HUMS  AMSAA has developed and is implementing a CBM system for ground vehicles. This development process has included the development of a robust military-grade HUMS in conjunction with the Aberdeen Test Center and the development of data collection, reduction, analysis, and 
reporting processes. A key requirement underlying these processes is a thorough understanding of both the ways in which system condition is degenerated and the ability of the HUMS to detect, identify, and communicate all conditions that requires maintenance in a timely manner.  AMSAA and the US Army Aberdeen Test Center \(ATC\ve jointly initiated testing and applications as the critical means of filling this requirement 1  2    T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  
2  AMSAA\222 S S TRATEGY 1  3  D ATA R EPORTING 4  4  S EEDED F AULT T ESTING   A LGORITHM D EVELOPMENT 5  5  C ONCLUSION 6 
 R EFERENCES 6  B IOGRAPHY 6      1 223U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright.\224 For U.S Government employees only 2 IEEEAC paper #1736, Version 4 Updated December 11, 2008 1  I NTRODUCTION  Condition based maintenance \(CBM\is a plan of maintenance for a system based upon the actual condition of the system as enabled by the application of usage 
diagnostic and prognostic pr ocesses executed on a Health and Usage Monitoring System \(HUMS manner in which the system is employed and gives indications of how and why things are broken or breaking Usage characteristics include hours running, miles driven time at idle and fuel consumed among many others collected from on board vehicle sensors. Diagnostics is based on the symptoms or indicators of problems and uses methods to find what is broken and/or breaking in a system. The ultimate goal of HUMS is to leverage the knowledge base gained with usage and diagnostics in developing prognostic algorithms that will enable the prediction of system failures 
and, therefore, required system maintenance actions before failures occur. This will ultimately improve efficiency reduce logistics costs, and improve driver and crew safety  In order to foster the development of prognostic algorithms in support of condition based maintenance; AMSAA in conjunction with Aberdeen Test Center \(ATC\has also initiated Seeded Fault Testing on ground vehicles. This test introduced, or seeded, known controlled faults into the vehicle in order to replicate common field failures. Common faults included lowering coolant levels, restricting air flow across radiator, lowering of transmission oil levels and lowering of engine oil levels. Data from the vehicle system 
was then collected and analyzed to observe how the system reacts 2  AMSAA\222 S S TRATEGY  AMSAA follows a four phase strategy for implementation of CBM. These phases are similar to the engineering design process. In phase one, AM SAA identified appropriate hardware and software for an Engineering Development HUMS \(EDHUMS\mpleted initial in-theater installations of data acquisition systems at Aberdeen Proving Ground \(APG\n order to be used in theater on Tactical Wheeled Vehicles \(TWV\222s\ data acquisition system needs to meet certain specifications. The specifications the system must meet are  


    2 200  meets conducted emissions and susceptibility requirements of MIL-STD-461 200  Small overall size 200  Use robust military grade connectors 200  Accept 12V and 24 V power inputs 200  provide method for remote switching of the unit on/off 200  supports vehicle bus, GPS, displacement, strain acceleration, and temperature gauges 200  operates in maximum outside ambient temperature of 120\260F \(49\260C\th a solar radiation load up to 1120 W/m 2  200  survives typical vibration levels of various TWV's  AMSAA began evaluating the capabilities of many commercial and military systems and selected an industrialgrade commercial off-the shelf product from nCode called the eDAQ-Lite shown in Figure 1. This system possesses the functionality, flexibility an d ease of use necessary to support the development of CBM and prognostics algorithms in process    Figure 1 \226 Image of eDAQ - lite   Phase two in AMSAA\222s strategy consisted of developing a robust military-grade EDHUMS, designing a data analysis process, testing EDHUMS in the Continental United States CONUS\raining environment, and beginning to field EDHUMS in operational un its outside of the CONUS including the Central Command\222s area of responsibility  While the eDAQ-lite off the shelf met some of the criteria specified for TWV\222s; there were still some limitations These included that the eDAQ-lite design was designed for industrial use \(operating temperature: -10 \260C to 65 \260C and operating voltage: 10-18V\uilt with industrial-grade connectors instead of military grade, possessed no additional electromagnetic interference \(EMI\ielding / no tests for EMI, no internal relay for switching unit on/off, no internal motion sensors, and the vehicle engine bus interface module existed external to the unit. To correct these problems AMSAA had to modify the eDAQ-lite in order to ensure the survivability of it in the field, enhance the functionality, and control the EMI to and from communications gear  First, a military grade superstructure was designed in Pro/Engineer \(a 3D solid-modeling package\o house the eDAQ-lite data acquisition system, shown in Figure 2, along with other essential support equipment and cables    Figure 2 - Original 3D Solid-Model of eDAQ-lite within Superstructure \(US ARMY eDAQ TWV Package   Support equipment included EMI filters and fuses on the power lines, a DC/DC converter, a solid-state relay to switch the eDAQ-lite on and of f, a six degree of freedom motion pack to provide three angular rates and acceleration information along three orthogonal directions, and a vehicle bus interface module to provide communications between the vehicle bus and the eDAQ-lite  Two thermal tests were performed to characterize the thermal behavior of the US ARMY eDAQ TWV system under desert operating conditions \(as specified in AR 7038\he first test was a steady-state, natural convection test designed to determine the maximum operating temperature of the eDAQ system. The seco nd test was a solar-loading test designed to validate the operation of the eDAQ system when exposed to high solar radiation in conjunction with high outside ambient temper atures.  A conduction-based cooling scheme was selected for the interior components including the eDAQ-lite\d a natural-convection-based cooling scheme was selected for the exterior. Thermally conductive grease/RTV/gasket was used on all wall interfaces. Figure 3 and 4 show the built ARMY eDAQ TWV Package        200  Dust tight and water tight connections 


    3   Figure 3 - Installed ARMY eDAQ TWV Package     Figure 4 ARMY eDAQ TWV Package with lid removed   Phase three of AMSAA\222s strategy was identifying a small inexpensive Focused HUMS \(FHUMS\. This would be a HUMS device identified as a co mmercial system that met most of the requirements identified for the EDHUMS including the requirement of being capable to support all the sensors and data recording devices of the EDHUMS. It also had to meet the additional requirements of being smaller and more cost efficient. The system needed to be small enough in order to fit in more discrete locations than could previously be occupied by the EDHUMS. This was a must as to not interfere with any st andard operating procedures of the vehicle and to make it totally autonomous to the operator. It also allows for easier installation and shorter installation times. AMSAA was successful in identifying a company that manufactured vehicle monitoring units VMU\for this purpose and was willing to work with AMSAA to develop flexible customization of their hardware and software to meet AMSAA\222s requirements  AMSAA took the most versatile version of the VMU and co-developed with the manufacturer the ability to meet specific requirements for a F HUMS. Once the first version of the FHUMS was ready AMSAA began running tests at Aberdeen Proving Ground and Yuma Proving ground to prove the ability of the FHUMS to produce accurate reports and data. Two tests were run with military vehicles having an EDHUMS and a FHUMS recording data simultaneously The goal of the tests was to determine if the FHUMS system could replicate the algorithms and reports on the FHUMS that were produced post pr ocessed on the EDHUMS. The results of previous tests and field data using the EDHUMS were analyzed and used to create the format for the data to be produced in the summary reports created by the FHUMS The tests confirmed that the FHUMS could produce ready to go reports that users, maintainers, commanders, engineers supply chain personnel, and project managers could refer to in their decision making processes. The next step was to customize the FHUMS for AMSAA\222s requirements, by formatting the processed data, improving the FHUMS harness system, adding internal calculation ability for performing algorithms and improving the software interface as well as adding additional external sensor capability. The second version of VMU was a smaller FHUMS system that the company offers but customized for AMSAA\222s requirements including accepti ng new sensors and the J1708 interface. This version included many of the software upgrades including new data formats and hardware changes It was also used to initially field the FHUMS on a smaller level at many locations. The third version included a few upgrades and is the current version being deployed and planned to deploy over the next year. Figure 4a shows an installed FHUMS. The planned changes for the FHUMS includes adding firmware upgrades to include new algorithms and adding in additional health sensors that work with the FHUMS such as temp erature and current monitors These added sensors and the potential of being able to add more sensors add to the flexibility of AMSAA being able to meet the present and future concerns of the army fleet management    Figure 4a \226 Army FHUMS  AMSAA\222s fourth and final phase is integrating these smaller FHUMS into all military vehicles at the point of manufacturing or, in the case of older vehicles, RESET RESET is when all vehicles and equipment get a complete teardown, overhaul and necessary upgrades which it is hoped that one day include FHUMS. These boxes will collect data on fleets as well as have on- board algorithms implemented in order to warn the operators of impending failures as well as assist the maintainers and command 


    4 3  D ATA R EPORTING  Many vehicles at Aberdeen Proving Ground have been fully instrumented with EDHUMS and data is being captured from over 80 analog channels, multiple SAE J-1708/J-1939 bus channels, and GPS sensors.  These vehicles have run over all APG test courses multiple times which has provided detailed data for prognostic algorithm development. These are algorithms that AMSAA creat es from the data to predict impending failures before they happen in order to warn the operator and the maintainers so proper evasive action can be taken. Aberdeen Test Center \(ATC\nd AMSAA have also measured and analyzed data fr om 20 wheeled vehicles of 3 different types in Iraq for over a year. This has provided a significant amount of usage data and operating parameters that have been extremely useful for optimizing testing Also, the data is being aligned with maintenance records to identify which maintenance actions and failures occur most in the field. This information can then be used to develop specific prognostics algorithms for those actions that would provide value in theater  EDHUMS testing has been ongoing since June 2006 AMSAA has instrumented and collected data from TWV\222s at the National Training Center in Ft. Irwin, California and Ft. Stewart, Georgia. Ten EDHUMS systems were installed in Kuwait/Iraq in 2007 and six systems were installed in Afghanistan.  In addition, six systems were installed during the Heavy Brigad e Combat Team CBM+ COBRA demonstration in April 2007  AMSAA is recording a large variety of time-history data on all of the instrumented vehicles and is able to summarize usage items like time-in-gear, which is the amount of time that the vehicle spends in each of its transmission gears and time-at-speed, which is a speed distribution profile AMSAA is also able to perform multi-parameter analyses to investigate fuel and driveline efficiencies    One of the most promising analytical processes AMSAA is developing is the real-time onboard identification classification, and mapping of terrain types as shown in Figure 5.  This work has led to a usable initial terrain identification and classificati on algorithm that has been implemented onboard all vehicles currently instrumented by AMSAA in Kuwait, Iraq, Afghanistan, Korea, and the United States.  While current implementation is somewhat rudimentary - only 3 broad-spectrum short-wavelength surface roughness classifications 226 work is underway to incorporate long-wavelength classifications \(hills mountains, etc\well as a refinement to the shorterwavelength terrains  Presently, the algorithm distingu ishes 3 severities of surface roughness \226 primary road, secondary road, and off-road \226 using a root-mean-square calculation of data from unsprung mass accelerometers low-pass filtered at 30 Hz as a function of mean vehicle speed over 20-second periods.  Given that the suspension of the vehicle responds to short-wavelength terrain components \(bumps, washboarding, etc\ the form of high accelerations, the accel erometer is an appropriate sensor for these shorter-wavelengths.  On the other hand, the suspension does not respond to long wavelength components such as hills in any measurable amount.  The overall vehicle orientation \226 the pitch and roll angles however, does.  The appropriate sensor for this measurement is a gyroscope  Most AMSAA instrumentation packages incorporate a lowcost \223motion pack\224 \(triaxial gyro and triaxial accelerometer sensor that more accurately responds to the long wavelength, hilly components of the terrain.  Development work is underway to incorporat e these measurements into an integrated full-spectrum \226 very long to very short wavelength - terrain identification algorithm. These concepts are illustrated in Figure 6 below   0.00001 0.0001 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10 0.01 0.1 1 Wave Number \(Cycles/Ft Magnitude \(Ft 2 Cycle/Ft Large Amplitude Long Wavelength \(Steep Hilly Moderate Amplitude Short Wavelength \(Moderate Roughness Small Amplitude Long Wavelength \(Flat Large Amplitude Mid-Wavelength \(Very bumpy Moderate Amplitude Long Wavelength \(Rolling Very Small Amplitude Mid/Short-Wavelength \(Smooth Gyroscope Accelerometer   Figure 5 Latitude and longitude plot of speed \(green and Terrain-Induced Vibration  Figure 6 PSD Plots of Wavelength Contributions to Terrain Classifications and Sensor Sensitivity 


    5  One of the current products that AMSAA can quickly output in the field from the data collected is our Vehicle Usage Summary Report.  It is a two-page report that summarizes some of the important parameters of vehicle usage  Included in the report is the vehicle\222s ID, the date and time the data were taken, the total amount of fuel that was consumed, the amount of fuel consumed while the vehicle was at idle, the percentage of time the vehicle was at idle significant damage/safety events \(the count of hard brake and hard turn maneuvers\ the amount of time spent in primary, secondary, and off-road terrain, and a map of the vehicle\222s route. Also distribution profiles of speed, engine coolant temperature, engine and transmission oil temperatures, engine speed, and transmission gearing are shown. Figure 6 shown below is an example of a Vehicle Usage Summary Report    Figure 6 - Vehicle Usage Summary report   4  S EEDED F AULT T ESTING   A LGORITHM D EVELOPMENT  AMSAA\222s seeded fault testi ng was created in order to develop prognostic algorithms for CBM\222s EDHUMS box as well as the VMU FHUMS. During this test AMSAA introduced known controlled faults into the vehicle in order to replicate common field failure s. Common faults included lowering coolant levels, restricting air flow across radiator lowering of transmission oil levels and lowering of engine oil levels. It is predicted that this will cause the vehicle cooling system to fail or overheat which is a major cause of in theater failures. Testing was conducted at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland and then at Yuma Proving Ground, Arizona. Th ree courses from each Proving Ground were selected to encompass a full range of terrain types and conditions. The extremely high temperatures during the June/July desert testing at Yuma mimic closely that of Iraq It is also predicted that the outside air temperature has a large effect on the cooling system and performance of vehicles which is why Yuma Proving Ground was selected in the test plan  This test will provide many usef ul findings. First, the results will be used in order to advance the development of CBM and predictive vehicle algorithms coordinated with diagnostics and prognostics methods. Second, there has not been, to AMSAA\222s knowledge, any experiment detailing the vehicle\222s performance under extreme and unconventional conditions. These conditions include running the vehicle over rough terrain in excessive heat while the vehicle overheats or is pushed close to failure. Third, it shows indisputable evidence of whet her or not our EDHUMS is capable of showing faults in the data as well as having the potential to deliver the required algorithms  The vehicle was instrumented with J1939 data bus recording capability and GPS to replicate the instrumentation AMSAA uses in the field. Twelve thermocouples were also instrumented on the vehicle in specific locations as a validation of the temperatures being recorded from the J1708 data bus  For each of the three fluid level reduction tests, fluid was removed in increments relative to the total fluid capacity in order to produce a large enou gh sample size as well as a linear comparison curve in the data. Each level of fluid in the vehicle represented one run around the course and the test was done until the vehicle recorded failure of any kind including overheating. During the radiator blockage test the same ideas were put into place and runs were conducted as a percentage blocked of the total area. The data was then recorded and analyzed  Preliminary results show that AMSAA\222s EDHUMS data can in fact show differences be tween runs of failure and non failure for the faults tested. Engine coolant reduction and radiator blockage showed elevated coolant temperatures as expected as well as elevated oil temperatures and intake air temperatures. The difference in data also shows that there is a distinguishing factor between overheating by coolant loss and by radiator blockage seen in the figures below 


    6  Figure 7 - Coolant temperature and rate of change for vehicle overheating caused by radiator blockage     Figure 8 \226 Coolant temperature and rate of change for vehicle overheating caused by coolant loss  Figure 8 shows a coolant loss failure and the figure 7 shows overheating by radiator blockage. The blue lines represent the temperature of the actual coolant and the red line shows the rate of change of the coolant temperature. This was calculated by differentiating the coolant temperature, it is not a data stream that comes directly off the vehicles J1939 electronic control module. From the data both graphs show a rise in coolant temperatur e to a critical level; however their nature is much different The coolant loss chart shows a maximum rate of change to be +3 degrees and -2 degrees However the radiator blockage chart shows only a maximum rate of change as +/- 1 degree. AMSAA currently developed an algorithm that can distinguish between these two faults and will soon be in the process of testing and validating this algorithm. AMSAA also is in the final stages of developing an oil loss algorithm. These algorithms have the potential to predict vehicle failure and warn the operator of impending failures possibly 10 to 15 minutes before they occur, allowing the operator sufficient time to get to safety  Future work in seed ed fault testing is necessary and will be conducted by AMSAA. This involves testing many different faults under in-theater conditions as well as verifying any algorithms created. It is AMSAA\222s overall goal to use seeded fault testing in conjunction with CBM to have the ability to use algorithms developed by seeded fault implanted in-theater and save cost, time and increase the efficiency of vehicle maintenance and safety 5  C ONCLUSION  AMSAA has developed and is implementing a condition based maintenance system for military ground vehicles in order to plan maintenance based upon the actual condition of the system as enabled by the application of usage diagnostic and prognostic pr ocesses executed on a Health and Usage Monitoring System \(HUMS\ata acquisition system was ruggedized and modified to meet military standards and usage requirements in order to fill the need of a high operation tempo and extreme environments the vehicles endure. Testing was done to validate and verify algorithms developed and created by seeded fault testing along with in theater usage da ta. It is AMSAA hope that a focused HUMS will be used on all military vehicles in the future in order to provide operators, maintainers, suppliers and commanders with necessary data to make good fleet management decisions ultimately saving time and money while increasing maintenance e fficiency and operator safety R EFERENCES   Aerospace Conference W e b si te http www.aeroconf.org B IOGRAPHY  Eric Rabeno is a Mechanical Engineer and a member of the Condition Based Maintenance Team at The US Army Materiel Systems Analysis Activity located on Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engi neering with a Minor in Mathematics from the University of Delaware. He is also in the process of obtaining a Master of Science degree in Biomedical Engineering from Johns Hopkins University  Mark S. Bounds is a mechanical engineer and the Technical Lead on the Condition Based Maintenance Team at The US Army Materiel Systems Analysis Activity located on Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. He holds a B.S degree in Mechanical Engineering from Temple University and a Master of Science degree in Systems Architecture and Engineering from the University of Southern California A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to extend their acknowledgement and thanks to Craig Hershey, Michael Pohland, Marguerite Shepler and Mary Calomeris 


  7 B IOGRAPHY  David Oberhettinger works for the Chief Engineer of the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL This includes managing the JPL Engineering Standards Office and the JPL Engineering Research Program. Formerly, he managed Northrop Grumman Corp.\222s Spacecraft Engineering Technology Department. Technical work for Northrop Grumman in support of JPL included serving as Risk Manager for the Jovian Icy Moons Orbiter \(JIMO mission study contract and chairing a JPL Failure Review Board. He presently serves as a Vice-Chair of the 2009 Reliability & Maintainability Symposium http://www.rams  org  Helenann Kwong-Fu works for the Office of Safety and Mission Success at the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\. This includes managing JPL flight missions as a Mission Assurance Manager and performing risk management on the following flight projects: SPITZER Telescopes Phoenix-MARS Lander, WISE, and Active Mirror Telescope Formerly, she was a senior scientist at JPL working on R&D in Biomedical Technology on Ultrasound Image Analysis of atherosclerosis disease. She is a recipient of the 2008 exceptional exa mple of the successful transfer of space technology to Earth applications and was honored with induction into the 2008 Space Technology Hall of Fame 


 8  Figure 17. A satellite view of the August 21 field test area. The GPS track of the OASIS boat is shown in red while the aerostat observatio n path \(obtained from the onboard avionics\wn in white  Figure 18. A slanted view of the ocean area where the test was conducted. Th e measured rhodamine concentrations are shown as a vertical “ribbon” along the route taken by the OASIS boat \(as shown in Figs. 16 and 17 8  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper describes a telesupervision architecture for multiple autonomous platforms and its application to the particular problem of the detection of harmful algal blooms Initial work has concentrated on the integration of subsystems developed by the collaborating organizations, in the development of HAB and dye observation systems, and in building an aerial platform to allow observation of the TAOSF system and the OASIS bo ats from the air. In-water tests have demonstrated the viability of the MARTA architecture as instan tiated in TAOSF One of our key next steps is an extended end-to-end test in which multiple OASIS platforms map a rhodamine-dye HAB surrogate under human telesupervision. Over the next year we plan to increase the number of platforms, develop and deploy adaptive sensing algorithms, and continue deploying the TAOSF system in the Chesapeake Bay estuary Because of their in-situ observation capabilities and resolution, as well as their adaptivity, telesupervised autonomous surface vehicles are crucial to the sensor web for Earth science. The MARTA telesupervision architecture underlying TAOSF is broadly applicable to a wide variety of domains beyond HABs, incl uding ecological forecasting water management, carbon management, disaster management, coastal management, homeland security, and planetary exploration A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work was supported by NASA award NNX06AF27G Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”, granted under the Advanced Information Systems Technology program of NASA’s Earth Systems Technology Office ESTO\he TAOSF project is a collaboration among Carnegie Mellon University CMU Flight Center \(GSFC\, NASA Goddard’s Wallops Flight Facility \(WFF\mergent Space Technologies, Inc. \(EST and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\ifornia Institute of Technology. Work on the OASIS platforms is conducted by Emergent Space Technologies, Inc., EG&G, and Zinger Enterprises under award NA03NOS4730220 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA\, U.S. Department of Commerce R EFERENCES    G Po d n ar J. M  D o lan   A. El fes M  B e rge r m a n, H  B Brown, and A. D. Guisewite. "Human Telesupervision of a Fleet of Autonomous Robots for Safe and Efficient Space Exploration". Proceedings of the 1st Annual Conference on Human-Robot Interaction \(HRI-2006\e City, UT USA, March 2-4, 2006   E Halbe r stam L. Na v a rr oSerm ent, R. Cone scu   S Mau, G. Podnar, A. D. Guisewite, H. B. Brown, A. Elfes, J M. Dolan, and M. Bergerman. "A Robot Supervision Architecture for Safe and E fficient Space Exploration and Operation." Proceedings of the 10th Biennial International Conference on Engineering, Construction, and Operations in Challenging Environments, Houston, TX, USA, March 5-8 2006    A. El fes J. M   Dola n G Po d n ar S M a u, a n d M   Bergerman. "Safe and Effici ent Robotic Space Exploration with Tele-Supervised Autonomous Robots." Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium 2006, Stanford, CA, USA March 27-29, 2006   G Po d n ar J. D o lan  A  Elfes, a nd M  Berge r m a n  Human Telesupervision of Very Heterogeneous Planetary Robot Teams”. In Proceedi ngs of the AIAA Space 2007 Conference, Long Beach, CA, 18 – 20 September 2007 


 9  5 Wood s Ho le Ocean ographic In stitu tion    http://www.whoi.edu  6 and  Wild life Research  In stitu te http://research.myfwc.com    No rth w est Fishe r ies Sci e nce Ce nter Harm ful Al ga l Blooms Program http://www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/hab/index.html  8 ing Harm fu l Alg a l Blo o m s in th e Ch esap eak e Bay   http://coastwatch.noaa.gov/cbay_hab  9 a l Transform a tio n fo r Sp atio tem p o r al  Data Mining", Journal of Knowledge and Information Systems \(KAIS\ol. 11, No. 5, 2007, Springer  1 J. M   D o l a n G Po d n ar  S. St a n cl i ff E  Li n J H o sl er T. Ames, J. Moisan, T. Moisan, J. Higinbotham, and A Elfes. “Harmful Algal Bloo m Characterization via the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. Proceedings of the 2007 NASA Science and Technology Conference NSTC-07\ College Park, MD, June 19 – 21 2007  1 Tec hni cal  Dat a S h eet   http://www.coleparmer.com/ca talog/Msds/msdbes002.pdf  1 A. El fes J. Dol a n an d G. P o d n ar T he Tel e su per v i s ed Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. In Proceedings of the Conference on Atmospheric and Environmental Remote Sensing Data Processing and Utilization III: Readiness for GEOSS, 2007 SPIE Symposium on Optical Engineering and Applications. San Diego, CA, 26 – 30 August 2007  1 A El fes  Usi n g  Occ u pancy  Gri d s f o r M obi l e R o bot Perception and Navigation”. IEEE Computer Magazine Special Issue on Autonomous Intelligent Machines, v. 22, n 6, June 1989  1 A. El fes Dy nam i c C ont rol o f R o b o t P e rcept i o n Usi n g Stochastic Spatial Models. In G. Schmidt \(ed.\ation Processing in Mobile Robots, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, July 1991  15 A. Elfes Mu lti-Sou r ce Sp atial Fu si o n Using Bayesi an Reasoning. In M. A. Abidi and R. C. Gonzalez \(eds.\, Data Fusion in Robotics and Machine Intelligence, Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1992  1 A  El fes  R ob ot  Navi gat i on  I n t e gr a t i ng Pe rce p t i o n Environment Constraints and Task Execution Within a Probabilistic Framework”. In Reasoning with Uncertainty in Robotics, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 1996  1 B r uch  M  H  T he m u l t i rob o t  o p era t or c o nt r o l u n i t  MOCU\," SPIE Proc. 6230: Unmanned Systems Technology VIII, Defense Security Symposium, Orlando FL, April 18-20, 2006   B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Alberto Elfes is a Principal Member of Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Systems Section at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\He leads projects in the areas of autonomous aerial vehicles for planetary exploration coordination and control of robot/robot and robot/human teams and space mission planning and architecture optimization. He has held positions as Director of the Automation Institute, Brazil, and as a research scientist at th e IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, the Engineering Design Research Center and the Robotics Institute, CMU. Additionally, he has held university professorships in Brazil and Germany. He has an E.Eng. degree in Electronics Engineering and an M.Sc degree in Computer Science from the Aeronautics Institute of Technology \(ITA\razil, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineer ing, with concentration in Robotics, from Carnegie-Mellon University. Dr. Elfes has over 100 publications in international journals, conferences and books, and has lectured ex tensively in North America Europe, Brazil and Japan. He is a recipient of the Mercator Professorship Award of the German Research Foundation DFG   


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


