  1 On Low Power Operations during Spirit\222s Third Winter on Mars Scott G. Lever Jet Propulsion Laboratory Mail Stop 301-250D California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena, CA 91109 818 scott.g.lever@jpl.nasa.gov  Robert W. \(Bill\n 818 bill.nelson@jpl.nasa.gov  Daniel Gaines 818 daniel.m.gaines@jpl.nasa.gov  Jennifer A. Herman 818 jennifer.a.herman@jpl.nasa.gov  Sharon Laubach 818 sharon.l.laubach@jpl.nasa.gov  Marc Pack 818 marc.m.pack@jpl.nasa.gov  Steve Peters 818 stephen.f.peters@jpl.nasa.gov  Pauline Hwang 818 pauline.p.hwang@jpl.nasa.gov  All Author Addresses are Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena, CA 91109 with varying Mail Stops  Abstract 227The Mars Exploration Rovers \(MER\ is operating two Martian robotic rovers, Spirit and Opportunity 1 2 The primary mission duration included 90 Martian days \(or \223sols\224 as the team calls them rover to explore the Martia n surface.  The project is currently enjoying a fifth successful year of operating both rovers on Mars, as several extended missions have been approved.  Both of the rovers get their electrical power from solar arrays and store excess energy in batteries.  Both operate in the southern hemisphere of Mars. Both share similar seasons, but Spirit is further away from the equator than Opportunity, and Spirit has collected more dust on its 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5 09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1618, Version 5, Updated January 9, 2009 solar array panels.  Opportunity gathers so much solar array power each sol that th e trade-offs to be considered in daily operations focus around science gathering versus data storage and telemetry downlink limitations.  Opportunity\222s ability to gather science on Mars is data bound, as it shunts excess power every sol.  Spirit, on the other hand, gathers less solar array energy on its solar panels, because of its position relative to the equator and because of the relatively worse dust accumulation on top of its solar panels.  For Spirit, daily operations are also typically data bound.  But in the deepest of winter, the daily operations trade-offs pit science versus power, and telemetry downlink versus power.  As Spirit\222s solar array power falls lower and lower survival of the instrument s and spacecraft become the primary focus during winter operations 


  2 T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 2  2  T HE P RIMARY C HANGES TO R EDUCE P OWER 2  3  P RIMER ON C URRENT M ETHODS 2  4  P ARADIGM S HIFT 3  5  F ROM C OMMAND B UILD TO S EQUENCE E XECUTION L ATENCY 4  6  C OMMUNICATIONS P ASSES AND A UTONOMOUS B EHAVIOR 6  7  C OST OF L ATENCY FROM P LANNING TO E XECUTION 7  8  S IMPLE T RIMMING 7  9  T HE B ALANCE OF P OWER 7  10  S HOULD A LL E LSE F AIL 7  11  I N P RACTICE   E PILOGUE 7  R EFERENCES 8  B IOGRAPHY 8  1  I NTRODUCTION  As the Mars Exploration Rovers \(MER\ Integrated Sequencing Team \(IST\udied the approaching third winter solstice of the mission, it was apparent that standard procedures could not suppor t nominal activities without compromising the health and safety of the Spirit rover.  The team had already parked Spirit on a 30 degree, north-facing slope to tilt the solar arrays toward the low winter sun.  As winter deepened, the next step was to disable the thermostatic heaters protecting the Miniature Thermal Emission Spectrometer \(Mini TES or MTES\ This carried the very real risk of catastrophic damage to the optics and loss of the instrument, but the alternative was to let the increasing heating demands deplete the batteries and lose the entire mission As winter progressed, Spirit generated a little more energy than had been predicted.  Maybe it was possible to save the MTES after all.  First the IST cut back on time for science but otherwise tried to maintain normal operations.  But the combination of more heating and dwindling solar energy forced the team to consider mo re extreme measures to try to keep the MTES heaters enabled Complicating factors included long latencies between planning activities and telemetry from their execution, and incomplete telemetry of battery and solar array status Spirit has two modes, asleep and awake.  When asleep, her electronics draw very little energy, and any excess from the solar arrays can charge her batteries.  When awake she must rely on her batteries, even when some of her needs are supplied from her solar arrays.  The basic idea, then, is to minimize the awake time each Martian day \(sol minimize the number of uplink communications passes, and to minimize the number of downlink communications passes.  Minimizing the downlink passes was the most disconcerting, as the project wants to see telemetry every sol.  Each of those minimizati ons carries its issues, risks and complications; but trade-offs were considered contingencies added, risks m itigated and details honed until a rather elegant solution em erged.  This proved so successful in conserving limited energy that it actually became possible to add back some previously deleted science activities The following describes how the team arrived at their solutions: the issues that were faced, the tradeoffs that were made and the effect the new planning concept had on both the IST and the downlink engineering team.  As the team progressed through looking at power saving choices, each choice brought with it a new challenge or, in some cases, a benefit that facilitated implementation 2  T HE P RIMARY C HANGES TO R EDUCE P OWER  The IST started with the most obvious; in order to reduce power consumption, the time that Spirit was awake had to be reduced.  Nominally, a high gain antenna \(HGA\uplink direct from Earth \(DFE\an ultra-high frequency \(UHF downlink relay through the Mars Odyssey spacecraft ODY\were performed once each Martian day \(sol Therefore, our first step was to minimize these activities The team struggled with the idea of less communications with the spacecraft, but the pow er savings were absolutely necessary.  Two basic concepts were developed and presented that included uplink once every 7 sols and once every 14 sols.  To keep the focus on the changes for Spirit winter operations and off of the subtleties of working with Mars time, let\222s just imagine that a day on Earth and a sol on Mars are the same duration.  The numbers 7 and 14 stemmed from two sources.  First, the strategic communications passes detailed plan was produced every 14 Earth days, and was always available for uplink processing for Spirit on a Friday planning day.  Second, the planning schedule nominally in cluded weekdays only, and 7 day and 14 day cycles fit in quite naturally.  The team consensus was for once every 7 sols.  The comfort zone limits on getting telemetry from Spirit brought a consensus of one downlink every 4 sols.  Every sol that had no communications passes could be standardized with a minimum awake time 3  P RIMER ON C URRENT M ETHODS  There was a tremendous downside to using a long \(7 or 14 sol\ plan with respect to our current procedures and methods.  Before understanding the long plan downside one must understand the nominal planning method and how a 7 or more sol plan would affect it.  Nominal plans are all one \(1\sol plans with typically three \(3\ls or so of runout commanding \(see figure 1\un-out commanding is simply sequenced commanding beyond the current science planning scope.  The team pl aces a command hook just after the first sol and prior to run-out sols so that control passes to the next plan.  In fact command hooks are placed in each sol of the run-out, so that any new sequence could be passed control, as long as it is one of the run-out sols.  Run-out commanding is important so that just in case the next plan sequence is not on board, the operators have deterministic 


  3 sequence in control of Spirit rather than on-board autonomous control.  Another benefit of run-out commanding is that in the event a particular plan does not make it on board for any reason, the run-out gives opportunities for the team to uplink later plans which will be triggered by a hook already in an on board run-out sequence.  This deterministic sequence control is referred to as \223Earth in control\224 \(EIC\inistic control is especially important in low power situations because the team wants to be sure of projected behavior for power consumption modeling.  Even though the team has knowledge of expected autonomous behavior and controls over limits in autonomous behavior, there is always a risk that an unexpected event c ould arise which might draw more power than predicted or desired.  In a most typical scenario, the IST would build a one-sol plan on a weekday such as Tuesday, and come in Wednesday to build another The Tuesday plan is built with a hook in it \(as are each of the plans\to automatically attempt to pass control to the next plan.  Considering the ty pical worst case scenario in nominal operations, the IST will build three \(3\ne sol plans on any given Friday \(see figure 1\each on-board sequence of commands \(a sequence\ng off to the next after it has executed the first sol \(in-scope\and before it enters run-out sequencing \(out of-scope\ng one sol plans gives the IST the most flexibility for last minute changes in operations as well as providing for an extremely consistent usage of all of the tools involved in the process 4  P ARADIGM S HIFT  Once one understands some basics of the current process of building sequences \(as defined in the previous chapter\the downside of a seven \(7\ plan \(or any long plan\becomes clear.  The team will build seven one sol plans in one day each of these plans containing the one sol plan itself plus the three sols \(or more, if needed\ sequencing This IST will review at least 28 sols of commanding using this method, providing more opportunities for mistakes or review fatigue or both.  Knowing this, a paradigm shift was in order. Since the team was also trying to avoid major tool changes in a very short turn around time, the newly proposed seven \(7\ and \(14\ plans were designed actually more like one \(1\ plans with very long run-out periods.  Since the run-out goal is to allow for possible 


  4 contingency hooks to pass cont rol to sequences beyond the next nominal sequence to be uplinked, an additional ten 10\s of run-out were added to the proposed concepts After considering how long these periods would be, the team chose the seven \(7\sol c oncept.  Therefore, the new template for sequence planning would be seven sols plus ten sols of run-out.  In summary, the seven \(7\sol period is actually one \(1\ plan plus six \(6\s of run-out to get to the next uplink plus ten \(10\ore sols of run-out to carry control to a later sequence should the immediate next sequence not be uplinked for any reason.  A major cost of this concept is that the active science planning is limited to the first sol of each seven so ls.  There was still science gathered on the run-out sols, but it was limited to a repeatable sequence which is ac tivated each sol.  But, since power was at such a minimum, there was not any loss of science gathering duration caused by this new concept, only a loss of science planning flexibility.  And, since using this method gave the team a chance to save the MTES from low temperature damage, the science team fully supported this new concept, knowing that once winter had passed, the science planning flexibility would return 5  F ROM C OMMAND B UILD TO S EQUENCE E XECUTION L ATENCY  Another interesting issue arose from trying to synchronize with the Deep Space Ne twork \(DSN\strategic communications schedule in the midst of planning long sequences.  The Spirit/DSN schedules were approximately two weeks each in duration running from approximately Wednesday \(following the Friday release\hrough the Tuesday two weeks later.  Under nominal operations, the team would wait until the latest possible telemetry was received from Spirit before building the sequence for uplink, sending it on the same sol it was to begin executing on board.  But, the team had a reasonable concern that if the sequence did not make it on board, then either seven \(7 sols would pass before the next uplink opportunity or the team would have to perform out of the ordinary processes to solve the problem, possibly adding power drain from additional contingency uplink passes or the usual risks of nonstandard \(or simply lesser used reason that supported the team\222s concern is that a sequence is called at one and only one point in time by the already on board sequence.  The underlying reason that the call must occur at a specific time is b ecause there are absolute time code references early in the new sequence, which are 


  5 required for important tasks such as shutting down the rover for sleep.  A sequence call will fail if any of its absolute time code references are in the past.  This is driven by the on board flight software and is a safety feature that protects the spacecraft from both clock failures and possible time code errors in sequences.  Missing an uplink would be extremely undesirable under this new concept with extremely long durations between planned uplinks Because an absolute time code reference in the past is not allowed, if a sequence is not on board by the time the previous sequences should pass control to it, then the sequence can no longer be used flight software won\222t allow it to execute with the negative absolute time code\d the IST must either wait for the next standard sequence to be built a week later \(while executing the run-out\or intervene with a special sequence bu ild and special real-time commanding to get a contingency uplink pass on board Because of these issues, the IS T team decided to plan and then uplink the sequences early \(s everal sols before the first sol of execution\ and with multiple contingency uplink passes \(prior to execution begin time \226 see figure 2\to ensure that the probability of not getting the new sequence on board before the \223hook\224 in the already on board \(parent sequence would attempt to call this newly uplinked \(child sequence would be extremely small.  This lent to a very elegant solution, which had many advantages and very little downside.  To understand the advantages, one must understand that the schedule of communications passes is kept in memory on board Spirit.  Also, each uplink of a sequence can be accompanied by communication schedule changes.  And, changes to the on board communications passes table will occur just shortly after the uplink itself The run-out has hooks to process the changes is communications passes on each so l, not necessarily waiting for the new sequence to execute The beauty in the choice of early uplink allowed that the contingency communications passes, which used extra power due to longer awake durations, could be deleted from Spirit\222s memory so that the power is automatically saved upon any successful uplink.  For example if there are three \(3 opportunities to uplink a sequen ce, then a successful uplink on the first of the three passes \(nominal uplink\ will be accompanied by commands to remove the costly second and third contingency communications passes.  Should the first attempt fail, which the team w ill not necessarily be sure of in each case \(because of the reduced telemetry opportunities\pass will remove the costly third pass.  Should the second attempt fail, then the third communications pass is still available.  If there is no ODY pass \(downlink telemetry\ between the first and second uplink pass, then the uplink is attempted over the second pass, since it would be foolish to assume 


  6 otherwise.  The same logic is applied to the third pass Should a prior uplink attempt ha ve been successful, then the contingency uplink passes would have been deleted, and the contingency uplink attempts would be ignored.  Another elegance is that the same commands to remove contingency uplink passes may be used regardless of which attempt is successful.  Even though a sequence may not have a time in the past in order to allow its execution to begin, the deleting of communications passes is somewhat different.  If an attempt is made to delete a pass from memory, in particular a pass that would have begun prior to the time of execution of the delete command itself, then the delete command is simply ignored, and a warni ng will appear in the next downlink of telemetry.  Therefore, should the first attempt have failed, the second attempt will have still had the commands to delete the second and third passes.  So, the command to delete the second pass will be executed shortly after the pass has occurred.  Should the third pass be the first one with a successful uplink, then the commands to delete the second and third passes, which have already occurred, will be ignored.  The tremendous advantage of this scheme is that the team need build only one set of commands to manage the contingency communications passes for each seven \(7\ was thrilled with the simplicity of this solution.  It guaranteed that any successful uplink w ould automatically clean out any unnecessary, power draining contingency uplink passes Also, the fact that only one set of commands had to be built for the management of the contingency uplink passes regardless of which pass turned out to be successful, meant the team is using a consistent, standard process, thereby reducing the risks inherent in producing multiple products for contingencies 6  C OMMUNICATIONS P ASSES AND A UTONOMOUS B EHAVIOR  Another feature that allows for this solution concept to remain elegant is that th e communications passes, once stored on board, will execute autonomously.  If Spirit is not already awake because of st ored sequence commands, Spirit will wake up and execute the communications pass Therefore, the team can build the sequence plan as if the contingency passes do not even exist, thereby saving energy should the pass be deleted prior to its execution on any given sol. This can be seen graphically by examining the 223awake\224 periods in figure 3 


  7 7  C OST OF L ATENCY FROM P LANNING TO E XECUTION  There is a downside to the latency between uplink of a sequence and its execution.  Th e downside is that the team does not have the latest telemetry prior to the actual execution of the sequence on board Spirit.  Under nominal circumstances, the IST is planning one sol or a few sols just prior to the on board execution.  This gives the team the latest and most reliable information in order to project power throughout the duration of the sequence.  Under nominal circumstances, stretching the latency would add risk of tripping a low power fault due to actual power draw in excess of poor power draw estimations.  But, the downside in this case is heavily mitigated by the fact that the team has already minimized power draw in the sequence plan, and there is just simply nothing else to cut away.  So the only remaining choice is to either allow the low power fault to trip or to uplink the command to turn off the MTES survival heaters.  Neither of those choices would alter the design of the sequences under this mode 8  S IMPLE T RIMMING  Additional power was saved, simply by trimming the durations of both uplink and downlink communications passes.  The standard ODY telemetry pass is seventeen \(17 minutes, or slightly less under nominal conditions.  The team chose to use six \(6\inute long ODY passes.  Also the nominal HGA uplink pass durations of twenty \(20 minutes was later trimmed to ten \(10\inutes in duration Both of these saved energy by reducing Spirit \223awake\224 time. Shortening the ODY passes also reduced transmitter 223on\224 durations, saving even more power in the batteries 9  T HE B ALANCE OF P OWER  Another measure, which did not necessarily save power in the aggregate, but which kept Spirit from reaching dangerous, possibly fault-tripping minimums, was the balancing out of communications passes.  The team already had the HGA uplink passes spread out to every seven \(7 sols.  The new concept had ODY telemetry downlink passes every 4 sols.  But, the team had to keep from scheduling ODY and HGA uplink passes on the same sol.  This is another point of elegance with this overall concept.  Since the team was choosing to uplink the sequences prior to the sol of execution, the team had the opportunity to avoid placing nominal or continge ncy HGA uplink passes on the same sols as the ODY passes without having to change the frequency of ODY passes.  Should the team have not had such flexibility in placi ng the HGA passes, then ODY changes would have been required, thus either increasing the power drain because of ODY passes being more frequent than every four sols, or decreasing the teams ability to react to on board problems because of having the ODY gap longer than every four sols 10  S HOULD A LL E LSE F AIL  Should all of the power saving measures described herein fail to achieve the desired results, the team still has options to protect Spirit.  Unfortuna tely, both options place risk on the MTES.  The first option is to allow Spirit to trigger a low power fault.  The word \223allow\224 is a misnomer.  But since the team has agreed to only have telemetry downlink passes every four \(4\th ere is always a risk that an environmental condition could cause a sudden downturn in power.  An increase in opac ity caused by dust in the atmosphere, could lower the solar array power enough to adversely affect recharging of the batteries.  A decrease in local temperature could cause th e MTES survival heaters to drain the batteries.  It could happen quickly enough that the team has no time to intervene.  The other option is that the team could decide to turn o ff the MTES heaters as a result of telemetry, thereby avoiding the low power fault, but placing the MTES at risk.  Even though it is only possible to uplink large sequence files using an HGA uplink pass Spirit is always listening via the Low Gain Antenna \(LGA Therefore, the team had a daily option to send the command to disable the MTES heaters, regardless of whether or not an HGA up link pass was scheduled 11  I N P RACTICE   E PILOGUE  The IST diligently implemented and exercised the modified sequence planning concept for Spirit\222s third Martian winter operations.  The team observed immediate benefits as the new concepts reduced power draw and balanced out the power usage, helping to avoid critical minimums.  The winter solstice for Spirit occurred on June 25, 2008.  The power saving methods provided Spirit with a savings in average daily load greater than 20 Watt-Hours, enough power to survive the winter with the MTES thermostatic survival heaters enab led the entire time.  The transition plan that brought Spirit from nominal operations to the modified Spirit Loads Before Power Saving Measures After Power Saving Measures Sol Load W-Hrs Sol Load W-Hrs 1537 191 1571 165 1538 245 1572 141 1539 165 1573 148 1540 170 1574 182 1541 172 1575 143 1542 210 1576 179 1543 185 1577 164 1544 139 1578 198 1545 217 1579 139 1546 180 1580 173 1547 212 1581 156 1548 213 1582 183 1549 221 1583 154 1550 181 1585 158 1551 197 1586 190 1552 180 1587 167 1553 174 1588 145 1554 189 1589 171 1555 203 1590 175 1556 180 1591 171 1557 225 1592 169 1558 188 1593 161 1559 205 1594 208 1560 179 1595 160 1561 145 1596 159 1562 166 1597 192 1563 192 1598 156 1564 168 1599 177 1565 164 1600 138 1566 210 1601 157 Average Average W-Hrs 188.9 W-Hrs 166.0 Figure 5 


  8 operations spanned the sols 1567 through 1570.  To verify power savings, the last 30 sols prior to the transition are compared to the first 30 sols after the transition.  The 223before\224 set will cover sols 1537 through 1566, while the 223after\224 set will cover sols 1571 through 1583 and 1585 through 1601.  The ground team never received the sol 1584 power data, hence the gap and the extension to sol 1601.  A graph, comparing the before and after cases, is shown in figure 4, while the actual data and derived averages are in Figure 5. Si nce the time of the winter solstice, Spirit has performed well and left the low power operations method behind, retu rning to daily operations But, as the team was attempting to bump the rover uphill, an extremely dense dust storm overcame Spirit, and drove solar array power values to new lows Because of the low power the team was forced to disable the MTES survival heaters to save the spacecraft from a low power fault.  In addition, the team used the low power operations method, striving to reduce loads.  With luck, the storm passed, and Spirit never tripped a low power fault and is currently healthy.  The IST is actually using daily operations again, as Spirit prepares to be driven to the next major sc ience target area.  The MTES appears to be healthy, and the team will continually assess its health and the need to re enable the heaters versus the power needs to move forward toward the next science target.  No one really knows exactly what lies ahead, but the low power operations concept is a tool that the team can continue to go back to whenever conditions call for it This work was performed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technol ogy, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES   Aerospace Conference W e b site http://www.aeroconf.org  B IOGRAPHY  Scott G. Lever is currently a Mission Manager on the Mars Exploration Rovers \(MER project.  He joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 1984 as a member of the Voyager project team working with the Computer Command Subsystem group.  Since Voyager and before MER, he has worked on other projects including Mars Observer, Topex/Poseidon, Cassini/Huygens, and Spitzer.  Scott usually works with ground software development and maintenance \(command sequence simulation and flight rules\ or with flight operations.  Scott received a presidential appointme nt to the United States Naval Academy in 1979 and holds a MSCS from Azusa Pacific University.  Scott is a licensed amateur radio operator    Bill Nelson is a mission manager for the Mars Exploration Rover project.  He previously worked in flight operations on the Galileo and Voyager projects.  He received a bachelor of engineering degree in electrical engineering from North Dakota State University and a masters degree in electrical engineering from California State University at Northridge.  He is a registered professional engineer   Daniel Gaines is a Mission Manager for the Mars Exploration Rovers mission and a Senior Member of the Artificial Intelligence Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Illinois in Urbana Champaign in 1998 Dr. Gaines was an assistant professor of Computer Science at Vanderbilt University prior to joining the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001.  In addition to working operations on the MER mission, Dr Gaines performs research in high level autonomy for in situ r obotics.  This work includes the development of planning and execution technologies for future in situ robotics missions.  His autonomy technology has been demonstrated on prototype rovers, unmanned sea vehicles and an aerobot    Jennifer A. Herman is the primary Power subsystem engineer for the Mars Exploration Rover \(MER project at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\.  She received a B.S. in chemistry from the California Institute of Technology and a M.S. in chemical engineering from the University of California at Los Angeles 


  9   Sharon Laubach is currently the Mars Exploration Rover MER\ integrated sequencing team chief at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was the MER uplink systems engineer and architect of the commanding and sequencing process for MER.  She received her Ph.D. from th e California Institute of Technology in autonomous robot control   Marc Pack is a U.C. Berkeleyeducated software engineer who was developing software for the Deep Space Network before joining the Mars Exploration Rover project.  He maintains much of the uplink support software used in MER tactical operations, and has begun similar efforts on the Mars Science Laboratory mission   Stephen F. Peters earned his Bachelor of Science degree at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has developed Space Shuttle flight software and JPL ground software used by the Viking, IRAS, Galileo Deep Space One, and MER missions. He has engaged in robotics and artificial intelligence research at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and at the Electrotechnical Laboratory in Tsukuba, Japan. He also served as on-site systems engineer for MUSESCN at the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science in Sagamihara, Japan. He is currently systems engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory surface guidance, navigation, and control subsystem   Pauline Hwang is currently the Strategic team lead on the Mars Exploration Rover \(MER project.  In addition, she also has Tactical duties on the MER project as an Uplink Lead Tactical Activity Planner and Sequence Integration Engineer She has a B.S. degree from the University of Colorado, Boulder in Aerospace Engineering and a minor in Astrophysics and has been at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\ since 2001.  Pauline has worked operations on many different JPL missions.  After only 4 months at JPL Pauline took over as the Mars Global Surveyor Orbiter sequence lead.  She developed and implemented a compensated targeted pointing process that enabled the Mars Orbit Camera \(MOC\ to return higher resolution images than ever seen on Mars at that time.  She helped coordinate and implement MGS UHF support of both Spirit and Opportunity's EDL and the surface mission which included planning out orbit maneuvers that would get the orbiter to fly over at the correct time the rover was landing. For MER's launch and cruise phases, Pauline worked operations as a sequence engineer and uplink lead She worked on the developmen t of the Mission Operation System of the Dawn Missi on and eventually became the Lead Mission Planner for development, launch, and initial checkout phases on Dawn project 


 10 However, the method proposed in this paper is able to improve the tracking performance. In roll, yaw and pitch axes, the attitude commands of aircraft have rapid and precise responses. Besides, usi ng in-flight C.G. estimation the approach can be seen to quickly adapt to the changing dynamics of the aircraft, a nd the coupling influence among three axes is effectively restrained In conclusion, the proposed de sign method in this paper could provide consistent pe rformance under varying C.G locations. Furthermore, compared with the conventional gain-scheduling method which requires huge design workload, this approach would effectively reduce the design complexity and make the design process clear and easy to implement 5  C ONCLUSION  This paper focuses on mode ling and attitude control of aircraft with C.G. variations First, a 6-DoF flight dynamics model of aircraft with C.G. vari ations is derived in order to account for the effect of the C.G. offset. After that, a synthesis approach based on i n-flight estimation of C.G position and inverse dynami cs is proposed to provide consistent performance under va rying C.G. locations. The simulation results demons trate good control performance and effectiveness of this approach A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This research work is supported by the China Aviation Science Fund program \221Integrate d Vehicle Management System Concept and Architecture Research for Advanced Aircraft\222 \(No.20060718001 R EFERENCES  1] AGARD, \223Integrated Vehi cle Management Systems,\224 North Atlantic Treaty Organization REPORT 343, 1996  Watson M  D. and Johnson S.B 223A Theory of Vehicle Management Systems,\224 2007 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, March 3-10, 2007   A.Hay r e and T.Dull, \223The ATF YF-23 Vehicle Management System,\224 Ae rospace Design Conference Irvine, CA, 1992  B.Hill and R.W a tts, \223Suit Study\227The Im pact of VMS in Subsystem Integration,\224 Ae rospace Design Conference Irvine, CA, 1992  Huber B  223C enter of Gravity C ontrol on Airbus Aircraft Fuel, Range and Loading,\224 The 47th Annual Conference  of the Society of Allied Weight Engineers, Plymouth Michigan, May 23-25, 1988   Nhan Nguy en etc, \223Dy n am ics and Adaptive C ontrol for Stability Recovery of Damage d Asymmetric Aircraft,\224 AIAA Guidance, Navigation a nd Control Conference and Exhibit, Keystone, Colorado, 2006   Ostroff A J and B acon B J, \223Force and M o m e nt Approach for Achievable Dynamics Using Nonlinear Dynamic Inversion,\224 AIAA Guidance Navigation and Control Conference and Exhibit, Portland, OR, 1999  Liu Jiarun and Shen Gongz hang, \223Attitude Control Based on Inverse Dynamics and Online Parameter Identification,\224 Journal of Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics 31\(2  Wu Sentang and Fei Yuhua Flight Control System Beijing: Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Press, 2005  R obert C  Nelson and Gu Junxiao\(translator Stability and Automatic C ontrol, Beijing: National Defense Industry Press, 2008   B a rton J.B acon and Irene M  Gregory 223General Equations of Motion for a Damaged Asymmetric Aircraft,\224 AIAA Atmosphe ric Flight Mechanics Conference and Exhibit, Hilton Head, Carolina, 2007  o she Idan, Gil Iosilevskii and Sergey Nazarov 223InFlight Weight and Balance Identification Using Neural Networks,\224 AIAA Guidance Navigation and Control Conference and Exhibit, Austin, Texas, 2003  Li Yuany u an and Zhang Lifeng, \223Application of Adaptive Weighted Fusion Algorithm of Multi-sensor Data,\224 Automation & Instrumentation 2, 10-13, 2008  Aircraft Design M a nual Beijing: Aviation Industry Press, 2005  M a them atics M a nual, B e iji ng: Higher Education Press 2002 B IOGRAPHY  Jing Zhang is a PhD student in the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering, Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China. She has worked on researching integrated vehicle management system concept and architecture. Her research interests include integrated fligh t/propulsion control system  


 11 modeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, active center of gravity control, etc Lingyu Yang has got his PhD in Navigation, Guidance and Control from Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China, 2007. He is currently an assistant instructor in the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering in BUAA. His main field of research is control allocation and flight control of aerospace vehicles. His research interests include integrated control system, m odeling and nonlinear control of flight vehicles, fli ght simulation, etc Gongzhang Shen was born in 1945 in China. Since 1990s, he has been a professor at the Department of Automation Science and Electrical Engineering, Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China His research interests include integrated control technology integrated vehicle management system nonlinear modeling, control and simulation of various aerospace vehicles, etc 


DAily SMLS TIROPI TMMS solar 90 243 60 A IIt I  I 1111X   L _~17A Hi FMAMJ ASOND 0.3 1.0 1.5 20 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 0 80 9.0 Nunber of observatio  24h Figure 10 Number of observations per each 24 hour period for LEOMAC-P top row and LEOMAC-S bottom row Everywhere in a given color is measured that number of times with lOxIO km horizontal resolution for TROPI TIMS and 50x50 km for SMLS The left three columns show an example for Aug 17 The rightmost column shows the annual variation for the TROPI and TIMS solar measurements where the vertical line is 17 August The number of measurements per 24 hour period for SMLS and TIMS/thermal has only a minor variation throughout the year 1000 km i 100 km 10 km GUobal I Global j Figure 11 Overarching scientific issues that need to be addressed by future atmospheric composition missions and LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC horizontal vertical and temporal coverage and resolution For the various measurement objectives L indicates that observations are needed in the lower troposphere U that they are needed in the upper troposphere and S that they are needed in the stratosphere The right end of each horizontal arrow is the required horizontal resolution and the left end is the required coverage The upper end of each vertical arrow is the desired temporal resolution and the lower end is the required resolution 13 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


