  A Feature Dependent Method for Op inion Mining and Classification  Alexandra BALAHUR DLSI, Univ. Alicante Alicante, Spain abalahur@dlsi.ua.es Andrés MONTOYO DLSI, Univ. Alicante Alicante, Spain montoyo@dlsi.ua.es  Abstract Mining the web for customer opinion on different products is both a useful, as well as challenging task Previous approaches to customer review classification included document level, sentence and clause level sentiment analysis and feature based opinion summarization. In this paper, we present a feature driven 
opinion summarization method, where the term ”driven” is employed to describe the concept-to-detail \(product class to product-specific characteristics\proach we took. For each product class we first automatically extract general features \(characteristics describing any product, such as price, size, design\ for each product we then extract specific features \(as picture resolution in the case of a digital camera\d feature attributes \(adjectives grading the characteristics, as for example high or low for price small or big for size and modern or faddy for design Further on, we assign a polarity \(positive or negative 
each of the feature attributes using a previously annotated corpus and Support Vector Machines Sequential Minimal Optimization[1 m a c h i n e lea r n i n g  w i th th e No r m a lize d  Google Distance[2  W e  sh ow how t h e m e t h od pr ese n t e d i s  employed to build a feature-driven opinion summarization system that is presently working in English and Spanish. In order to detect the product category, we use a modified system for person names classification. The raw review text is split into sentences and depending on the product class detected, only the phrases containing the specific product 
features are selected for further processing. The phrases extracted undergo a process of anaphora resolution, Named Entity Recognition and syntactic parsing. Applying syntactic dependency and part of speech patterns, we extract pairs containing the feature and the polarity of the feature attribute the customer associates to the feature in the review. Eventually, we statistically summarize the polarity of the opinions different customers expressed about the product on the web as percentages of positive and negative opinions about each of the product features. We show the results and improvements over baseline, together 
with a discussion on the strong and weak points of the method and the directions for future work Keywords Opinion mining; summarization; Normalized Google Distance; SVM machine learning     978-1-4244-2780-2/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE  1  Introduction Presently, the consumer market is flooded with products of the most varied sorts, each being advertised as better, cheaper, more resistant, easy to use and fault free. But is all what is advertised actually true? Certainly all companies will claim that the products they make are the best. In practice, however, each product will behave 
better or worse depending on the user’s necessities and level of expertise, will have certain capabilities or not depending on the price and product class. Moreover, for most users, the choice will depend on reasons such as lower price, brand name or ratio between price and performance. Therefore, how can a person that is faced with the harsh decision of having to choose among tens of products of the same type, with the same features finally take a rational decision? Since the world wide web contains a large quantity of product reviews, in specialized review sites and user blogs, a good solution seems to be that of lending an ear to this word-of-mouth” on the web e i g h i ng t h e pros an d 
cons of the different products and finally buying the one satisfying the personal needs and expectations The clear advantage in having at hand the volume of data present on the Internet nowadays is that one is apt to obtain almost objective information on the products that he/she is planning to buy. This process can be accomplished by viewing different opinions that people who have previously bought the product in question have on it, based on the experience in using it. Such people can comment on the reasons motivating their choice of purchase and their present attitude towards that decision Thus, besides the objective information concerning price and product capabilities, a prospect buyer can also have 
access to the subjective information about a product However, a high volume of information is also bound to bring difficulty in sifting through it. The ideal situation is that in which one is able to read all available user reviews and create his/her opinion, depending on the feature\(s\ of interest and the value or ratio of the feature attributes. The main problem then becomes the time spent in reviewing all available data and the language barrier - the fact that product reviews are written in different languages. The solution is obvious - a system that automatically analyzes and extracts the values of the 


  features for a given product, independent of the language the customer review is written in. Such a system can then present the potential buyer with percentages of positive and negative opinions expressed about each of the product features and possibly make suggestions based on buyer preferences. What follows is a description of such a system that presently works on Spanish and English. However, the algorithm is language independent and can be extended to work in any language where similar NLP resources and tools as the ones used herein exist. In the approach proposed, we concentrated on two main problems. The first one was that of discovering the features that will be quantified As previously noticed in [3   f eatu r es are im plic it or explicit. To this respect, apart from a general class of features \(and their corresponding attributes\at are applicable to all products, we propose a method to discover product specific features and feature attributes using knowledge from WordNet and ConceptNet The second problem we address is that of quantifying the features in a product-dependent manner since, for example, small for the size of a digital camera is a positive fact, whereas for an LCD display it is a rather negative one. We accomplish this by classifying the feature attributes using positive and negative examples from a corpus of customer opinions that was polarity annotated depending on the product category and SMO SVM machine learning w i t h th e  Normalized Google Distance [2  W e w ill illu strate th e  manner in which we solved the above mentioned problems with examples and discuss on the issues raised at each step by using different methods, tools and resources This paper is organized as follows: in section 2, we briefly present the previous work done in the area of customer opinion mining and the motivation for introducing our method. Further on, in section 3, we describe the architecture of the system we built for customer opinion mining, together with the NLP resources and tools we employed. In the following section, we describe the method to assign polarity to feature attributes. In section 5, we present the manner in which we summarized the polarity of the features depending on the polarity of feature attributes used in the reviews. Further on, in section 6, we discuss on the methods to evaluate a system implementing the method presented and we show the evaluation results obtained when applying our system to a set of previously manually annotated texts containing customer reviews in English and Spanish. Finally, we conclude on the method used and present the lines for future investigation and improvement 2  Background Previous work in customer review classification includes document level sentiment classification using unsupervised methods ach in e learning techn i qu e s  5  sc o r i ng o f fe a t ur e s  6   usi ng P M I  s ynt a c t i c r e l a t i o ns  and other attributes with e n t i m ent classification considering rati ng scales u perv is ed and unsupervised meth d s e m i s u pervi s ed learning e s earc h i n cla s s i f i catio n at a docum ent level included sentiment classification of reviews [10  sentiment classification on customer feedback data [1   comparative experiments e r res earch h a s been conducted in analyzing sentiment at a sentence level using bootstrapping techniques s i d eri n g  gradable adjectives s e misupervised learning with the initial training set identified by some strong patterns and then applying NB or self-trainin i n d i n g strength of opinions u m u p ori e n t a t i o n s of opi n i on words in a sentence \(or within some word window 18  d e term in in g th e se m a n t i c o r ien t atio n o f  w o rd s an d  phrases d en t i f y i ng opi n i on h o l d ers 20  comparative sentence and relation extraction and feature-based opinion mining and summarization The approach we use is grounded on the feature-based opinion summarization paradigm, whose theoretical background can be found in e l e v a n t res earch don e  in feature-driven opinion summarization can be found in  or 5 How e v e r  pres en t res earch h a s n o t in cl u d ed the discovery of implicit features and furthermore, it has left the problem of explicit features dependent on the mentioning of these features in the individual user reviews or not. The method we propose is language and customer-review independent. It extracts a set of general product features, finds product specific features and feature attributes and is thus applicable to all possible reviews in a product class. What follows is a description of the steps performed in order to obtain the features for each product class and of the manner in which input text is processed to obtain the opinion expressed by customers on them 3  System Architecture Our method consists of two distinct steps preprocessing and main processing, each containing a series of sub modules and using different language tools and resources  A. Preprocessing  In our approach, we start from the following scenario: a user enters a query about a product that he/she is interested to buy. The search engine will retrieve a series of documents containing the product name, in different languages. Further on, two parallel operations are performed: the first one uses a language identifier software to filter and obtain two categories one containing the reviews in English and the other the 


  reviews in Spanish. The second operation implies a modified version of the system described in o r t h e  classification of person names. We use this system in order to determine the category the product queried belongs to. Once the product category is determined, we proceed to extracting the product specific features and feature attributes. This is accomplished using WordNet and ConceptNet and the corresponding mapping to Spanish using EuroWordNet. Apart from the product specific class of features and feature attributes, we consider a core of features and feature attributes that are product-independent and whose importance determines their frequent occurrence in customer reviews 1\roduct-independent features and feature attributes There are a series of features that are product independent and that are important to any prospective buyer. We consider these as forming a core of product features. For each of these concepts, we retrieve from WordNet the synonyms which have the same Relevant Domain h e hy ponym s of t h e con cept s an d t h ei r  synonyms and attributes, respectively 2\ing WordNet to extract product specific features and feature attributes: Once the product category has been identified, we use WordNet to extract the product specific features and feature attributes. We should notice that, contrary to the observation made in  on ce w e es t a bl i s h t h e produ ct i t s co rres pon di n g  term in WordNet is sense disambiguated and thus the obtained meronyms, synonyms and corresponding attributes are no longer ambiguous. Moreover, the terms obtained in this manner, should they appear in customer reviews, have the meant meaning. We accomplish this in the following steps 1\or the term defining the product category, we search its synonyms in WordNet  2\e eliminate the synonyms that do not have the same top relevant domain t h e t e rm defi n i ng t h e  product category 3\e term defining the product, as well as each for each of the remaining synonyms, we obtain their meronyms from in WordNet, which constitute the parts forming the product 4\ce WordNet does not contain much detail on the components of most of new technological products we use Con m p lete t h e proces s of determining the specific product features. We explain the manner in which we use ConceptNet in the following section After performing the steps described above, we conclude the process of obtaining the possible terms that a customer buying a product will comment on. The final step consists in finding the attributes of the features discovered by applying the “has attributes” relation in WordNet to each of the nouns representing product features. In the case of nouns which have no term associated by the “has attribute” relation, we add as attribute features the concepts found in ConceptNet under the OUT relations PropertyOf and CapableOf. In case the concepts added are adjectives, we further add their synonyms and antonyms from WordNet. As result we have for example, in the case of “photo”, the parts raster” and “pixel” with the attributes “blurry”, “clarity sharp 3\ing ConceptNet to extract product specific features and feature attributes   Con t ain s relation s s u ch as  CapableOf, ConceptuallyRelatedTo, IsA, LocationOf etc In order to obtain additional features for the product in question, we add the concepts that are related to the term representing the concept with terms related in onceptNet by the OUT relations UsedFor and CapableOf and the IN relations PartOf and UsedFor. For example, for the product “camera”, the OUT UsedFor and CapableOf relations that will added are “take picture”, “take photograph”, “photography”, “create image”, “record image” and for the IN PartOf and UsedFor relations shutter”, “viewfinder”, “flash”, “tripod 4\ng concepts using EuroWordNet  We employ EuroWordNet and map the features and feature attributes, both from the main core of words, as well as the product specific ones that were previously discovered for English, independent of the sense number taking into account only the preservation of the relevant domain. Certainly, we are aware of the noise introduced by this mapping, however in the preliminary research we found that the concepts introduced that had no relation to the product queried did not appear in the user product reviews 5\covering overlooked product features: The majority of product features we have identified so far are parts constituting products. However, there remains a class of undiscovered features that are indirectly related to the product. These are the features of the product constituting parts, such as battery life, picture resolution auto mode. Further, we propose to extract these overlooked product features by determining bigrams made up of target words constituting features and other words in a corpus of customer reviews. In the case of digital cameras, for example, we considered a corpus of 200 customer reviews on which we ran Pedersens Ngram Statistics Packag to determ i n e tar g e t  co-occurrences of the features identified so far. As measure for term association, we use the Pointwise Mutual Information score In this manner, we discover bigram features such as battery life”, “mode settings” and “screen resolution  B. Main Processing  The main processing in our system is done in parallel for English and Spanish. In the next section, we 


  will briefly describe the steps followed in processing the initial input containing the customer reviews in the two considered language and offer as output the summarized opinions on the features considered. We part from the reviews filtered according to language. For each of the two language considered, we used a specialized tool for anaphora resolution - JavaRAP for English and SUPAR  o r S p an is h  F u rth e r o n  w e s e parate t h e te x t i n to  sentences and use a Named Entity Recognizer to spot names of products, brands or shops. Using the lists of general features and feature attributes, product-specific features and feature attributes, we extract from the set of sentences contained in the text only those containing at least one of the terms found in the lists 1\ Anaphora resolution: In order to solve the anaphoric references on the product features and feature attributes, we employ two anaphora resolution tools JavaRAP for English and SUPAR for Spanish. Using these tools, we replace the anaphoric references with their corresponding referents and obtain a text in which the terms constituting product features could be found Using JavaRAP, we obtain a version of the text in which pronouns and lexical references are resolved. For example, the text I bought this camera about a week ago,and so far have found it very very simple to use takes good quality pics for what I use it for \(outings with friends/family, special events\ great that it already comes w/ a rechargeable battery that seems to last quite a while by resolving the anaphoric pronominal reference, becomes I bought this camera about a week ago, and so far have found <this camera > very very simple to use, takes good quality pics for what I use this camera > for \(outings with friends/family, special events\. It is great that <this camera> already comes w a rechargeable battery that seems to last quite a while  SUPAR \(Slot Unification Parser for Anaphora Resolution\. The architecture of SUPAR contains, among others, a module solving the linguistic problems pronoun anaphora, element extraposition, ellipsis, etc We use SUPAR in the same manner as JavaRAP, to solve the anaphora for Spanish  2\entence chunking and NER: Further on, we split the text of the customer review into sentences and identify the named entities in the text. Splitting the text into sentences prevents us from processing sentences that have no importance as far as product features that a possible customer could be interested in are concerned We use LingPipe to split the customer reviews in English into sentences and identify the named entities referring to products of the same category as the product queried. In this manner, we can be sure that we identify sentences referring to the product queried, even the reference is done by making use of the name of another product. For example, in the text “For a little less, I could have bought the Nikon Coolpix, but it is worth the extra money.”, anaphora resolution replaces <it> with Nikon Coolpix> and this step will replace it with camera>. We employ FreeLing in order to split the customer reviews in Spanish into sentences and identify the named entities referring to products of the same category as the product queried 3\tence extraction: Having completed the feature and feature attributes identification phase, we proceed to extracting for further processing only the sentences that contain the terms referring to the product product features or feature attributes. In this manner, we avoid further processing of text that is of no importance to the task we wish to accomplish. For example sentences of the type “I work in the home appliances sector.” will not be taken into account in further processing. Certainly, at the overall level of review impact, such a sentence might be of great importance to a reader, since it proves the expertise of the opinion given in the review. However, for the problems we wish to solve by using this method, such a sentence is of no importance 4\tence parsing: Each of the sentences that are filtered by the previous step are parsed in order to obtain the sentence structure and component dependencies. In order to accomplish this, we use Mini o r English and FreeLing for Spanish. This step is necessary in order to be able to extract the values of the features mentioned based on the dependency between the attributes identified and the feature they determine 5\re value extraction: Further on, we extract features and feature attributes from each of the identified sentences, using the following rules 1\ We introduce the following categories of context polarity shifters, in which we split the modifiers and modal operators in two categories - positive and negative  negation: no, not, never etc   modifiers: positive \(extremely, very, totally etc and negative \(hardly, less, possibly etc modal operators: positive \(must, has\d negative \(if, would, could etc 2\ each identified feature that is found in a sentence, we search for a corresponding feature attribute that determines it. Further on, we search to see if the feature attribute is determined by any of the defined modifiers. We consider a variable we name valueOfModifier, with a default value of -1, that will account for the existence of a positive or negative modifier of the feature attribute. In the affirmative case we assign a value of 1 if the modifier is positive and a value of 0 if the modifier is negative. If no modifier exists, we consider the default value of the variable. We extract triplets of the form \(feature, attributeFeature valueOfModifier\ order to accomplish this, we use the syntactic dependency structure of the phrase, we determine all attribute features that determine the given 


  feature \(in the case of Minipar, they are the ones connected by the mod and pred relations  3\ a feature attribute is found without determining a feature, we consider it to implicitly evoke the feature that it is associated with in the feature collection previously built for the product. “The camera is small and sleek.” becomes \(camera, small, -1\d \(camera sleek, -1\which is then transformed by assigning the value “small” to the “size” feature and the value “sleek to the “design” feature 4  Assigning polarity to feature attributes In order to assign polarity to each of the identified feature attributes of a product, we employ SMO SVM machine learning and the Normalized Google Distance NGD\The main advantage in using this type of polarity assignment is that NGD is language independent and offers a measure of semantic similarity taking into account the meaning given to words in all texts indexed by Google from the world wide web The set of anchors contains the terms featureName happy, unsatisfied, nice, small, buy that have possible connection to all possible classes of products and whose polarity is known. Further on, we build the classes of positive and negative examples for each of the feature attributes considered. From the corpus of annotated customer reviews, we consider all positive and negative terms associated to the consid ered attribute features. We then complete the lists of positive and negative terms with their WordNet synonyms. Since the number of positive and negative examples must be equal, we will consider from each of the categories a number of elements equal to the size of the smallest set among the two, with a size of at least 10 and less or equal with 20 We give as example the classification of the feature attribute tiny for the size feature. The set of positive feature attributes considered contains 15 terms such as \(big, broad, bulky, massive, voluminous large-scale etc.\d the set of negative feature attributes considered is composed as opposed examples, such as small, petite, pocket-sized, little, etc.\e use the anchor words to convert each of the 30 training words to 6-dimensional training vectors defined as v\(j,i NGD\(w i a j  where a j with j ranging from 1 to 6 are the anchors and wi, with i from 1 to 30 are the words from the positive and negative categories. After obtaining the total 180 values for the vectors, we use SMO SVM to learn to distinguish the product specific nuances. For each of the new feature attributes we wish to classify, we calculate a new value of the vector vNew\(j,word\=NGD\(word, a j  with j ranging from 1 to 6 and classify it using the same anchors and trained SVM model. In the example considered, we had the following results \(we specify between brackets the word to which the scores refer to small\.52,1.87,0.82,1.75,1.92,1.93,positive little\.44,1.84,0.80,1.64,2.11,1.85,positive big\ 1.19, 0.86, 1.55, 1.16, 1.77, negative bulky\, 0.92, 1.13, 1.12,1.16, negative The vector corresponding to the “tiny” attribute feature is: \(tiny\ 1.51, 1.41, 0.82, 1.32, 1.60, 1.36 This vector was classified by SVM as positive using the training set specified above. The precision value in the classifications we made was between 0.72 and 0.80, with a kappa value above 0.45 5  Summarization of feature polarity For each of the features identified, we compute its polarity depending on the polarity of the feature attribute that it is determined by and the polarity of the context modifier the feature attribute is determined by, in case such a modifier exists. Finally, we statistically summarize the polarity of the feature attributes, as ratio between the number of positive quantifications and the total number of quantifications made in the considered reviews to that specific feature and as ratio between the number of negative quantifications and the total number of quantifications made in all processed reviews. The formulas can be summarized in  Fpos\(i\_feature_attributes\(i\#feature_attributes\(i  Fneg\(i\eg_feature_attributes\(i\eature attributes\(i  The results shown are triplets of the form feature, % Positive Opinions, % Negative Opinions 6  Discussion and evaluation For the evaluation of the system, we annotated a corpus of 50 customer reviews for each language collected from sites as amazon.com, newegg.com dealsdirect.com, ciao.es, shopmania.es, testfreaks.es and quesabesde.com. The corpus was annotated at the level of feature attributes, by the following scheme attribute> [name of attribut eat u r e> [f eat u r e it determines eat u r e> <v al u e p o s itiv e / n e g a ti v e  value> </attribute It is difficult to evaluate the performance of such a system, since we must take into consideration both the accuracy in extracting the features that reviews comment on, as well as the correct assignation of identified feature attributes to the positive or negative category. Therefore we introduced three formulas for computing the system performance. The formula used in measuring the accuracy of the system represented the normalized sum of the ratios between the number of identified positive feature attributes and the number of existing positive attributes and the ratio of identified negative feature and the total number of negative feature attributes for each of 


  the considered features existing in the text. Secondly, we compute the Feature Identification Precision \(FIP ratio between the number of f eatures correctly identified from the features identified and the number of identified features. Thirdly, we compute the Feature Identification Recall \(FIR\ the number of correctly identified features from the features identified and the number of correctly identified features. The results obtained are summarized in Table I. We show the scores for each of the two languages considered separately and the combined score when using both systems for assigning polarity to feature attributes of a product. In the last column, we present a baseline, computed as average of using the same formulas, but taking into consideration for each feature, only the feature attributes we considered as training examples for our method. We can notice how the use of NGD helped the system acquire significant new knowledge about the polarity of feature attributes   Eng Sp Combined Baseline Eng Baseline Sp  SA 0.82 0.80 0.81 0.21 0.19 FIP 0.80 0.78 0.79 0.20 0.20 FIR 0.79 0.79 0.79 0.40 0.40 Table 1. System results  There are many aspects to be taken into consideration when evalua ting a system identifying features, opinion on features and summarizing the polarity of features. First of all, customers reviewing products on the web frequently use informal language disregard spelling rules and punctuation marks. At times phrases are pure enumerations of terms, containing no subject or predicate. In this case, when there is no detectable dependency structure between components, an alternative method should be employed, such as verifying if the terms appearing near the feature within a window of specified size are frequently used in other contexts with relation to the feature. Secondly, there are many issues regarding the accuracy of each of the tools and language resources employed and a certain probability of error in each of the methods used 7  Conclusions and future work In this paper we presented a method to extract, for a given product, the features that could be commented upon in a customer review. Further, we have shown a method to acquire the feature attributes on which a customer can comment in a review. Moreover, we presented a method to extract and assign polarity to these product features and statistically summarize the polarity they are given in the review texts in English and Spanish The method for polarity assignment is largely language independent \(it only requires the use of a small number of training examples\d the entire system can be implemented in any language for which similar resources and tools as the ones used for the presented system exist The main advantage obtained by using this method is that one is able to extract and correctly classify the polarity of feature attributes, in a product dependent manner. Furthermore, the features in texts are that are identified are correct and the percentage of identification is high. Not lastly, we employ a measure of word similarity that is in itself based on the “word-of-mouth on the web. The main disadvantage consists in the fact that SVM learning and classification is dependent on the NGD scores obtained with a set of anchors that must previously be established. This remains a rather subjective matter. Also, the polarity given in the training set determines the polarity given to new terms, such that large” in the context of “display” will be trained as positive and in the case of “size” as negative. However there are many issues that must be addressed in systems identifying customer opinions on different products on the web. The most important one is that concerning the informal language style, which makes the identification of words and dependencies in phrases sometimes impossible Future work includes the development of a method to extend the list of product-dependent features and feature attributes, alternate methodologies for polarity assignation to product dependent feature attributes and finally, the application of a textual entailment system to verify the quality of the feature extracted and the assigned polarity 8  Acknowledgements This research has been partially funded by the European Union under the project QALLME number FP6 IST-033860 and by the Spanish Ministry of Science and Technology under the project TEXT-MESS number TIN2006-15265-C06-01 References 1  Platt, J.: Sequential minimal optimization: A fast algorithm for training support vector machines Microsoft Research Technical Report MSRTR 98-14 \(1998  2  Cilibrasi, D., Vitanyi, P.: Automatic Meaning Discovery Using Google. IEEE Journal of Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 2006 3  Liu, B.: Web Data Mining. Exploring Hyperlinks Contents and Usage Data. First edn. Springer 2007 4  Turney, P.: Thumbs up or thumbs down? Semantic orientation applied to unsupervised classification of 


  reviews. In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. \(2002  5  Pang, B., Lee, L., Vaithyanathan, S.: Thumbs up Sentiment classification using machine learning techniques. In Proceedings of EMNLP-02, the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. \(2002  6  Dave, K., Lawrence, S., Pennock, D.: Mining the Peanut Gallery: Opinion Extraction and Semantic Classification of Product Reviews. In Proceedings of WWW-03. \(2003  7  Mullen, T., Collier, N.: Sentiment Analysis Using Support Vector Machines with Diverse Information Sources. In Proceedings of EMNLP 2004. \(2004  8  Chaovalit, P., Zhou, L.: Movie Review Mining: a Comparison between Supervised and Unsupervised Classification Approaches. In Proceedings of HICSS-05, the 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. \(2005  9  Goldberg, A.B., Zhu, J.: Seeing stars when there aren’t many stars: Graph-based semi-supervised learning for sentiment categorization. In HLT-NAACL 2006 Workshop on Textgraphs Graph-based Algorithms for Natural Language Processing. \(2006 10  Ng, V., Dasgupta, S., Arifin, S.M.N.: Examining the Role of Linguistic Knowledge Sources in the Automatic Identification and Classification of Reviews. In Proceedings 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics 2006 11  Gamon, M., Aue, S., Corston-Oliver, S., Ringger E.: Mining Customer Opinions from Free Text Lecture Notes in Computer Science \(2005 12  Cui, H., Mittal, V., Datar, M.: Comparative Experiments on Sentiment Classification for Online Product Reviews. In Proceedings of the 21 st  National Conference on Artificial Intelligence AAAI 2006. \(2006  13  Riloff, E., Wiebe, J.: Learning Extraction Patterns for Subjective Expressions. In Proceedings of the 2003 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. \(2003 14  Hatzivassiloglou, V., Wiebe, J.: Effects of adjective orientation and gradability on sentence subjectivity In Proceedings of COLING 2000. \(2000  15  Wiebe, J., Riloff, E.: Creating Subjective and Objective Sentence Classifiers from Unannotated Texts. In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Computational Linguistics and 2005 16  Wilson, T., Wiebe, J., Hwa, R.: Just how mad are you? Finding strong and weak opinion clauses. In Proceedings of AAAI 2004. \(2004  17  Kim, S.M., Hovy, E.: Determining the Sentiment of Opinions. In Proceedings of COLING 2004. \(2004 18  Lin, W.H., Wilson, T., Wiebe, J., Hauptman, A Which Side are You On? Identifying Perspectives at the Document and Sentence Levels. In Proceedings of the Tenth Conference on Natural Language Learning CoNLL’06. \(2006 19  Turney, P., Littman, M.: Measuring praise and criticism: Inference of semantic orientation from association. ACM Transactions on Information Systems 21 \(2003 20  Stoyanov, V., Cardie, C.: Toward Opinion Summarization: Linking the Sources. In COLING-ACL 2006 Workshop on Sentiment and Subjectivity in Text. \(2006  21  Hu, M., Liu, B.: Mining Opinion Features in Customer Reviews. In Proceedings of Nineteenth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence AAAI-2004. \(2004 22  Kozareva, Z., Montoyo, A.: Discovering the Underlying Meanings and Categories of a Name through Domain and Semantic Information. In Proceedings of the Conference on Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing RANLP 2007 2007 23  Vázquez, S., Montoyo, A., Rigau, G.: Using relevant domains resource for word sense disambiguation. In Proceedings of the ICAI 2004 2004 24  Fellbaum\(ed.\rdNet An Electronic Lexical Database. First edn. MIT Press \(1999 25  Liu, H., Singh, P.: ConceptNet: A Practical Commonsense Reasoning Toolkit. BT Technology Journal 22 \(2004 26  Ferrández, A., Palomar, M., Moreno, L.: An Empirical Approach to Spanish Anaphora Resolution. Machine Translation. Special Issue on Anaphora Resolution In Machine Translation Special Issue on Anaphora Resolution In Machine Translation \(1999 27  Lin, D.: Dependency-based Evaluation of MINIPAR. In Workshop on the Evaluation of Parsing Systems. \(1998 28  Banerjee, S., Pedersen,T.: The Design Implementation and Use of the Ngram Statistics Package. In Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Intelligent Text Processing and Computational Linguistics, February 17-21, 2003 Mexico City 


Proof of Theorem 2 We rst prove L AE   and then prove  l  L AP  n  Z  l j  np   L AE    We assume L AE 012    and reduce it to absurdity According to the assumption   l  L AE that means   i 1 and  i 2 Z n   l   i 1   i 2 where  i 1 and  i 2 are allocated onto the same processor and   i 3 and  i 4 Z n   l   i 3   i 4 where  i 1 and  i 2 are allocated onto different processors Note that Z n is iteration space If the loop nest is parallelized in the j th level i j 1 015 i j 2 mod p  where p is the processor id So i j 3  i j 4  l j  i j 1  i j 2 015 0 mod p   which means  i 3 and  i 4 are also allocated on the same processor It leads to conict with the assumption Thus the assumption is absurd and L AE      l  L AP  n  Z  l j  np  Suppose  l links  i 1 and  i 2     Suppose n  Z  l j  np  then  i j 1   i j 2  l j  np So  i j 1 015  i j 2 mod p   which means  i 1 and  i 2 are allocated on the same processor Because L AE   proved above  l  L AP     Suppose  l   i 1   i 2  and  i 1 is allocated on the processor P q as  i 2 So  m 1  Z  i j 1  m 1 p and  m 2  Z  i j 2  m 2 p If n  m 1  m 2  n  Z and l j  i j 1  i j 2  m 1 p  m 1 p  np    is proved Under L AE     n  Z  l j  np is the converse proposition of  n  Z  l j  np So  l  L AP  n  Z  l j  np   Proof of Theorem 3 If  l 1   l 2  L AP  then  m n  Z    l LP M 1   l LP M 2  ker LP M and  l 1 0    mp   0 T e j  mp   l LP M 1  l 2 0   np   0 T e j  np   l LP M 2 Because m  n  Z   l LP M 1   l LP M 2  ker LP M   l 1   l 2   012 012 012 012 012 012  0     m  n  p    0  015 015 015 015 015 015  e j  m  n  p   l LP M 1   l LP M 2   L AP Thus L AP constitute the subspace of the link vector space While 0   p   0 T e j  p is the base of the space 0   np   0 T e j  p n  Z  Because ker LP M is also a closed space L AP  span                   012 012 012 012 012 012  0    p    0  015 015 015 015 015 015  e j  p ker LP M                  Proof of Theorem 4 Suppose the upper bound of a chunk is i j,L  a 1 pk  a 2 k and the lower bound is i j,U  a 1 pk  a 2 k  k  1  If a link vector l j  b 1 pk  b 2 k  b 3 separately starts from these two bound points the end points will be i j,L  l j  a 1  b 1  pk  a 2  b 2  k  b 3 i j,U  l j  a 1  b 1  pk  a 2  b 2  k  k  1 b 3 Because 0  b 3 k   i j,L  l j k  015 a 2  b 2 mod p   i j,U  l j k  015 a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p     If the end points of the link vector belong to the same chunk a 2  b 2 015 a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p  So  k  1 b 3 k  015 0 mod p  Because 0  b 3 k  0  k  1 b 3  2 k  1 Thus k  1 b 3 k  b 3  1  b 3 0  l j  b 1 pk  b 2 k If the end points belong to different chunks a 2  b 2 012  a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p  Then  k  1 b 3 k  012  0 mod p  Because 0  b 3 k and k  1  k  1 b 3  2 k  1  k  1 b 3  k k  k  1 b 3  2 k  1 1  b 3 k  k  1 b 3 k  015 1 mod p  a 2  b 2 1 015 a 2  b 2   k  1 b 3 k  mod p  which means the end points belong to adjacent chunks    Because every step above is reversible   is proved 
523 
523 


BIOGRAPHY Dimitry Gorinevsky is a Consulting Professor of Electrical Engineering in Information Systems Laboratory at Stanford University and a Principal of Mitek Analytics LLC He received a Ph.D from Moscow Lomonosov University and a M.Sc from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology He held research engineering and academic positions in Moscow Russia Munich Germany Toronto and Vancouver Canada He spent 10 years with Honeywell His interests are in decision and control systems applications across many industries He has authored a book more than 140 reviewed technical papers and a dozen patents Dr Gorinevsky is an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology He is a recipient of Control Systems Technology Award 2002 and Transactions on Control Systems Technology Outstanding Paper Award 2004 of the IEEE Control Systems Society He is a Fellow of IEEE Gabriel Hoffmann is a PhD candidate at Stanford He is also with Mitek Analytics LLC working on NASA AR&D project At Stanford Gabriel develops hardware flight software and control laws for a fleet of quadrotor helicopter unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs He has been the team lead for controls systems for the Stanford Racing Team since 2004 He designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Stanley though a 132 mile race across off-road desert terrain to win DARPA Grand Challenge in 2005 He also designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Junior through 56 miles of urban terrain to place second in the DARPA Urban Challenge Gabriel interned at Boeing Space Systems Houston working on the International Space Station He interned at the NASA Ames Academy in 2001 Marina Shmakova is working on modeling and analysis of fault tolerant systems with Mitek Analytics LLC She is also a Staff Scientist at Physics Department of Stanford University She worked on analysis of Hubble Space Telescope data including the attitude and pointing data and observational data As a research associate at Stanford Linear Accelerator Center Dr Shmakova worked on different aspects of astrophysics and high energy physics She has Ph.D and in MS in Physics from University of Tennessee Robert Mah is a Senior Scientist in Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Research Center ARC He received a Ph.D in Applied Mechanics and M.S in Mechanical Engineering from Stanford University in 1988 and 1976 He has led and managed NASA projects and groups for more than 30 years He is a recipient of many NASA awards including NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal three Space Act awards several awards for Technology Transfer and Commercialization Spacecraft Docking Simulation Award and several others He published a few dozen papers and has several patents received and pending He was a keynote or invited speaker at many international and NASA conferences his work was featured in the media Dr Mah currently is a Project Scientist for Integrated Vehicle Health Management project in NASA Aviation Safety Program Scott Cryan received BS Aerospace Engineering from University of Buffalo in 1988 Since then he has been working Space Shuttle and Intermational Space Station GPS receivers In addition to the GPS receiver role on Space Shuttle and ISS he had been working on GPS _ii lreceivers for several projects at NASA JSC Recently Mr Cryan has been investigating relative navigation sensor performance via testing and analyses with open loop simulations Currently Mr Cryan is the relative navigation subsystem manager for the CEV Project at NASA-JSC Jennifer Mitchell is the Crew Exploration Vehicle Flight Dynamics Deputy Functional Area Manager at NASAs Johnson Space Center and also serves as the Project Manager for the Exploration Systems Technology Development Au_0 tomated Rendezvous and Docking Sensor Technology Project She has supported guidance navigation and control system development and testing for the Autonomous Extravehicular Robotic Camera AERCam the International Space Station and the X38 Crew Return Vehicles Space Integrated Global Positioning System  Inertial Navigation System She has a BS in Aerospace Engineering from Texas A&M University 


 10 data obtained from the industrial motor test setup. Data was acquired using the experimental fault profile in Figure 15. A snapshot of raw data, including the calculated feature values, is provided in Figure 16 Anomaly Detection\227 The particle filter framework was integrated into LabVIEW to evaluate the real-time performance of the anomaly detector during data acquisition. Shown in Figure 17 is a GUI developed in LabVIEW to manage the anomaly detector settings which include the false alarm rate \(type I error\and false alarm threshold \(type II error  Addi t i onal  confi gurat i on settings include the number of particles used by the particle filter, baseline statistics, fault model, and particle filter update / sample time The results from anomaly detector, using the data shown previously in Figure 16, are provided in Figure 18. The green line represents the confidence of detection based on the false alarm rate and the red line represents the alarm, or detection, threshold as defined earlier in Figure 17. The red dot designates the crossing point during which the red health-state light illuminates to indicate an anomaly has occurred 6  C ONCLUSION  This paper presented a particle-filter based anomaly detector capable of detecting the occurre nce of a major fault mode in its incipient stages for a safe ty critical aircraft actuation system. An overview of a ge neric PHM architecture were presented and applied to a particular EMA fault mode based on an internal FMEA study. The fault mode investigated in detail was a turn-to-turn winding insulation short for a brushless DC motor. The primary fault mode was modeled using physics-of-failure mechan isms indicating the primary failure effect, phase current asymmetry. A feature was derived using a Hilbert transform and statistical analysis to quantify the primary failure eff ect. Then, experimental data was acquired to validate the Simulink simulation model Finally, real-time evaluation of the anomaly detector was performed using LabVIEW  Although a specific system, an EMA, was selected as the test-platform with a specific fault mode, the overall PHM architecture can be applied to an entire range of systems and application domains. In fact, similar techniques which allow  Figure 16\227Plots of experimental data \(top computed features \(bottom experimental test setup using LabVIEW  Figure 17\227LabVIEW interface used to define particle filter settings Figure 18\227Plot of anomaly detection confidence \(top and health state indicator \(bottom\the experimental test setup using LabVIEW 


 11 for early fault detection dur ing acceptable performance in the presence of faults are being developed for a wide variety of system in both manned and unmanned air vehicles Therefore, the concept of usi ng system health information diagnosis and prognosis\n conjunction with reconfigurable control is at the forefront of modern space and avionics applications requiring increasingly sophisticated fault-tolerant systems that are robust, reliable and relatively inexpensive. Ther efore the need arises for a fault-tolerant control architecture to further maximize performance and extend the operating life of COTS components in future avionics systems A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was performed under the United States Air Force USAF\contract number FA8650-06-C-7628. The program is sponsored by the USAF Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL orate \(RB\Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. Mr. J.B. Schroeder, AFRL/RBCC is the Air Force Technical POC a nd Robert Chen is the NGC Program Manager and Principal Investigator. Georgia Institute of Technology \(GA Tech\lead the algorithm development and MOOG Aero space provided actuator and motor data. Tests presented herein were conducted at NGC R EFERENCES  1  M Orch ard  223A Particle Filterin g Based Fram ewo r k  for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Ph.D. Thesis, Electrical a nd Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of T echnology, Atlanta, 2007 2 M. Orch ard  G. Vach tsev an o s, \223A Particle Filterin g  Approach for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Transactions of the Institute of Measurement and Control in print   M. Orchard, B. W u and G. Vachtsevanos, \223A Particle Filter Framework for Failure Prognosis,\224 Proceedings of WTC2005, World Tribology Congress III  Washington D.C., USA, 2005    D. B rown, D. Edwards, G Georgoul as B  Zhang and G. Vachtsevanos, "Real-Time Fault Detection and Accommodation for COTS Resolver Position Sensors 1st International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM Oct. 69, 2008   A M u rray  H. B ruce and A. Hi rao, \223R esol ver Posi t i on Sensing System with Integrated Fault Detection for Automotive Applications,\224 Proc. of IEEE Sensors  vol. 2, pp. 864 \226 869, 2002   B  Zhang G. Georgoul as, M Orchard, A. Saxena, D Brown, G. Vachtsevanos, S. Liang, \223Rolling Element Bearing Feature Extraction and Anomaly Detection Based on Vibration Monitoring\224 Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation pp. 17921797, June 2008   B  Wu A. Saxena, R Pat r i c k-Al daco, and G Vachtsevanos, \223Vibration Monitoring for Fault Diagnosis of Helicopter Planetary Gears,\224 Proceedings of 16th IFAC World Congress July 2005   R  R  Schoen T. G. Habet l e r, F. Kam r an, and R G Bartheld, \223Motor bearing damage detection using stator current monitoring,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Appl  vol. 31, no. 6, pp. 1274\2261279, Nov./Dec. 1995   M  B a y but t  S. Nanduri  P W. Kalgren, D. S. Bodden N. S. Clements and S. Alipour, \223Seeded Fault Testing and In-situ Analysis of Critical Electronic Components in EMA Power Circuitry,\224  IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2008    N H M a lik, A. A. Al-Arainy and M I. Quereshi 223Electrical Insulation in Power Systems\224, Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1998    S. Nandi and H. A. Tol i y at  223C ondi t i on m oni t o ri ng and fault diagnosis of electrical machines \226 A review,\224 in Proceedings of the 34th Annual Meeting of the IEEE Industry Applications pp. 197-204, 1999   P. J. Tavner and J Penm an 223 Condition Monitoring of Electrical Machines 224 Res. Studies Press, 1987   C Xi anrong, V. C o cquem pot and C C h ri st ophe 223A model of asynchronous machines for stator fault detection and isolation,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Electron  vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 578\226584, Jun. 2003   J Penm an H G. Seddi ng, B A. Ll oy d, and W. T Fink, \223Detection and location of interturn short circuits in the stator windings of operating motors,\224 IEEE Trans. Energy Convers vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 652\226 658, Dec. 1994    D. Hansel m a n, \223B rushl e ss Perm anent M a gnet M o t o r Design,\224 The Writers' Collective, 2003   S. E. Lyshevski, \223Elect romechanical Systems, Electric Machines, and Applied Mechatronics\224, CRC Press Boca Raton, FL, 1999   D. Y. Ohm Dy n am i c M odel of PM  Sy nchronous Motors," Drivetech, Inc Blacksburg, Virginia www.drivetech.com     L. Youngkook and  T. G. Habet l e r, \223A St at or Turn Fault Tolerant Strategy for Induction Motor Drives in Safety Critical Applications,\224 IEEE PESC \22206 June 


 12 18-22 2006   M Johansson, "The Hi l b ert t r ansform  M a st er Thesi s  of Mathematics / Applied Mathematics, V\344xj\366 University, March 1999  E. B. Saff, A. D. Snider., \223Com plex analysis for mathematics, science and engineering\224, Prentice-Hall Inc., New York, 1976    Henri c i  Pet e r, \223Appl i e d and com put at i onal com p l e x analysis\224, Vol. 1, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 1988  M Orchard, G. Kacprzynski, K. Goebel, B. Saha, and G. Vachtsevanos, \224Advances in Uncertainty Representation and Management for Particle Filtering Applied to Prognostics,\224 PHM08 Conference Denver CO, October 2008    B Zhang, C Scony ers, C B y i ngt on, R Pat ri c k, M  Orchard, G. Vachtsevanos, \223Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults,\224 PHM Conference Denver CO, October 2008    R Pat ri c k, M Orchard B. Zhang, M. Koelemay, G Kacprzynski, A. Ferri, G. Vachtsevanos, \223An Integrated Approach to Helicopter Planetary Gear Fault Diagnosis and Failu re Prognosis,\224 42nd annual Systems Readiness Technology Conference AUTOTESTCON 2007 Baltimore, USA, September 2007 B IOGRAPHY  Douglas W. Brown received the B.S degree in electrical engineering from the Rochester Institute of Technology in 2006. He is a recipient of the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate \(NDSEG Fellowship and is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering at the Georgi a Institute of Technology specializing in control system s. His research interests include incorporation of Prognostics Health Management PHM\contro l. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Douglas was employed as a project engineer at Impact Technologies where he worked on incipient fault detection techniques, electronic component test strategies and diagnostics/prognostic algorithms for power supplies and RF component applications  George Georgoulas received Diploma and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Patras Patras in 1999 and 2006, respectively He joined the ICSL in October 2006 as a postdoctorate. His research interests include intelligent data analysis and development of decision support systems for complex systems  Hyeon Bae was born in Jinju, Korea, in 1973. He graduated in electrical engineering from Gyeongsang National University, Korea, in 1999. He received the M.S. and Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Pusan National University, Korea, in 2001 and 2005 respectively. He was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Research Institute of Computer Information and Communication \(RICIC Imaging and Information Tec hnology Center \(IITC\, Pusan National University, in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, he was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Georgia Institute of Technology, GA, U S.A. His research interests are data mining, intelligent system and control, and intelligent manufacturing system \(IMS  George J. Vachtsevanos is a Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He was awarded a B.E.E. degree from the City College of New York in 1962, a M.E.E. degree from New York University in 1963 and the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from the City University of New York in 1970. He directs the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech where faculty and students are conducting resear ch in intelligent control neurotechnology and cardiotec hnology, fault diagnosis and prognosis of large-scale dynamical systems and control technologies for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. His work is funded by government agencies and industry. He has published over 240 technical papers and is a senior member of IEEE. Dr. Vachtsevanos was awarded the IEEE Control Systems Magazine Outstanding Paper Award for the years 2002-2003 \(with L. Wills and B. Heck awarded the 2002-2003 Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Distinguished Professor Award and the 2003-2004 Georgia In stitute of Technology Outstanding Interdisciplinary Activities Award  Robert H. Chen received the Ph.D degree in mechanical engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 2000. He is currently a Senior Research Engineer at Northrop Grumman Corp., Integrated Systems Sector, Western Region. His research interests include fault detection, identification, and reconstruction with applica tion to distributed aerospace systems, guidance and contro l of aerospace vehicles, and homing missile guidance and estimation  


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


