html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Legal and  Policy Environments: An Institutional Perspective of Global E-commerce Adoption   Ling Zhu College of Management Long Island University C.W. Post Campus ling.zhu@liu.edu   Abstract Grounding on institutional theory and e-commerce adoption literature, this study conducts a cross-country analysis, assessing the impact and effect of legal and government environments on global e-commerce adoption in 2003 and 2007, respectively.  The study utilizes a set of secondary data from the Economist Intelligence Unit  s global e-readiness rankings.  The results indicate that at the starting stage of ecommerce, the legal and policy environment was a powerful facilitator for e-commerce adoption.  As ecommerce becomes more prevalent recently, the supportive government policy can still foster ecommerce adoption, but the effect of legal environment turns to negligible.  The study discusses extensively the e-commerce policy and its impact on e-commerce adoption.  It is one of the first cross-country studies on the institutional environment for e-commerce and the research findings have policy implications for global ecommerce development   1. Introduction  E-commerce is momentous for both developed and developing countries in strengthening the economy and supporting development.  The reality is, however, that after a decade of development, e-commerce adoption among different countries is still uneven due partially to different legal and policy environments for ecommerce.  The challenge is thereby for researchers and policy-makers to ensure that the opportunity and potential offered by e-commerce is taken and realized in all economies.  E-commerce should be facilitated not inhibited, by its external environment.  There has been a long-standing debate and different approaches on how an enabling environment should be created and shaped to foster e-commerce adoption.  When there is enough stakeholder involvement, political wisdom, and social awareness in ?e-strategies,? making progress in the adoption and diffusion of e-commerce can be an exciting reality.  It is an object of this study, therefore to provide an institutional lens for understanding the external environment, the legal and policy environment in particular, of e-commerce adoption in different countries Accordingly, this study assesses the impact and effect of the institutional environment \(i.e governmental support, legal adequacy, and national cultural compatibility The assessment first builds the research model based on institutional theory in organizational study and extensive reviews of previous studies.  The assessment then proceeds to test three research hypotheses using quantitative methods, secondary data source, and multi-time point approach \(i.e., the first phase in 2003 and the second phase in 2007 assessment demonstrate the degree of association between the institutional environment and e-commerce adoption in different countries.  The findings provide 


adoption in different countries.  The findings provide empirical evidence and systematic insights for researchers and policy-makers to comprehend the role of the institutional environment in e-commerce adoption at country level and over time, and to craft the right strategies with respect to e-commerce.  This study is also one of the first multidisciplinary studies investigating systematically the legal and policy factors in the institutional environment for global e-commerce adoption The subsequent sections are organized as follows Section 2 discusses the research background \(including the adoption and policy of e-commerce discusses institutional theory and its application in ecommerce policy studies, in alignment with the research model and hypotheses in this study.  Section 4 presents the methodology of how this research was designed and pursued.  Section 5 presents the statistical analysis results.  Research findings and implications are discussed in the last section  2. Research background Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE  2.1. Uneven adoption of e-commerce  Even with considerable opportunities offered by ecommerce, the adoption of e-commerce is varied largely among individuals and firms in different countries.  In general, the U.S., developed countries in Northern Europe, and Singapore lead e-commerce diffusion in the world.  After six years since its first global e-commerce report was published in 2001, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development UNCTAD developing countries and there are still wide gaps between countries [1].  According to the UNCTAD?s global e-commerce report [2], in Africa, e-commerce remained almost negligible except in South Africa.  In Latin America, e-commerce was highly concentrated in four relatively developed Internet markets?Brazil Mexico, Argentina and Chile.  In Asia and the Pacific region, enterprises, particularly in the manufacturing sector, were exposed to pressure from customers in developed countries to adopt e-commerce models and hence e-commerce was spreading quickly.  Ecommerce in developing countries together did not reach 5% of global e-commerce.  Even within the developed countries, the level of e-commerce adoption varied.  In 2004, among major EU \(European Union countries, the share of enterprises purchasing online ranged from less than 10% in Italy to more than 50% in UK; the share of enterprises receiving orders online ranged from 5% to 25% [3].  While it accounted for 10% of all sales in Ireland, the share of online sales was close to zero in several EU economies Using the data from the Global Information Technology Reports \(GITR average e-commerce scores in 2001 and 2006 of the top-40% and bottom-40% countries in the reports.  It depicts that the difference between the average scores of the top and bottom countries increased 67% from 2001 to 2006.  Unfortunately, the gap separating the countries of fast e-commerce adopters from the countries of late adopters was broader rather than narrower in the past half decade There has been a concern that uneven diffusion of e-commerce would create unfair competitive advantages for multinational oligarchs against local SMEs and create a ?digital divide? between developed 


SMEs and create a ?digital divide? between developed and developing countries.  Countries that lag behind in e-commerce will risk being bypassed by the competitive edge of those using the new technologies 4].  In a worse scenario, existing socio-economic divisions would be reinforced by the ?digital divide rather than be narrowed or changed by e-commerce  Source: The Global Information Technology Reports 2001-2002 and 2006-2007, World Economic Forum \(WEF Figure 1.  Average scores of e-commerce and their differences between top and bottom countries  2.2. E-commerce policy  For the facts shown above, e-commerce has been a key policy issue of public institutions.  The social and economic contributions and potentials of e-commerce provide enough incentives for policymakers and other stakeholders to take actions.  Many disparate guidelines, directives, laws, and treaties have emerged and governments around the world have developed bold plans for boosting e-commerce.  The key areas that have seen policies and regulations are digital signatures, information privacy, intellectual property and online taxation.  For example, aiming at encouraging e-commerce worldwide, more than 140 member countries of the World Trade Organization WTO customs duties on electronic transactions since 1998 Even in the U.S., where the government generally takes a hands-off approach to the Internet economy Congress has engaged in many e-commerce policy issues, such as Internet taxation, encryption and digital signature, online patent and copyright protection network security and privacy safeguards [5].  These institutional activities, in turn, created and shaped the external environment for e-commerce adoption although the degree of their effects might be varied across countries How to create a supportive environment for ecommerce adoption has driven much of the debate on policy making since the end of the 1990s.  One of the responses was a Framework for Global Electronic Commerce proposed by the U.S. government in 1997 Among the principles suggested to help the growth of e-commerce were that 1 undue restrictions on e-commerce; and 2 governmental involvement should be to support and enforce a predictable, minimalist, consistent and simple legal environment for e-commerce [6].  The Framework recognized that governments could have a profound effect on e-commerce, either facilitating or inhibiting it.  Knowing when and how the government Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 should act is crucial to the development of ecommerce From a global perspective, while adoption of IT and economic development are positively correlated countries with similar levels of GDP have very different levels of adoption of IT, and vice versa [7 The variation among countries in e-commerce cannot be explained simply by relative income and infrastructure levels [8].  The UNCTAD?s global ecommerce report therefore suggested that IT policy choices could make a significant difference in the adoption of e-commerce [7].  The report, however, did not investigate further the relationship between IT policy and e-commerce adoption, due to the lack of ecommerce data in non-U.S. countries Despite the numerous governmental endeavors 


Despite the numerous governmental endeavors constructing policies to enable and promote ecommerce faces significant challenges.  It should proceed carefully with consideration for the cultural and institutional capacities of a country.  It is commonly believed that the private sector makes its business and management decisions in an integrated institutional context covering laws, regulations standards, norms, funding and promotions.  It is also believed that policy-making has an original motivation to promote e-commerce adoption.  However, how the policy plays and how it should play the role as a promoter regarding e-commerce is still unclear.  One of the reasons is that, in an increasingly complex information economy, it is difficult to identify and measure the effect of policy outcomes To conclude at this point, both the significance and challenge of e-commerce are so obvious that there is an imminent need to evaluate scientifically the effects of institutional factors on e-commerce adoption for reference in appropriate policy-making and business decisions  3. Theory and research hypotheses  3.1. Theoretical foundation  One of the approaches to study e-commerce adoption is employing institutional theory, focusing on the external environment for e-commerce adoption Insights from the New Institutional Economics suggest that we should look beyond those proximate indicators [i.e. physical infrastructure] to examine how the institutional environment in a country contributes to \(or undermines supports private investment in the new medium [of business transaction].? [9]  The theoretical underpinnings in this section provide the context rationale and relevance of using institutional theory in the study The meaning of the term ?institution? is twofold First, institutional theory traditionally views institutions as a framework ?of rules, procedures, and arrangements? [10], or ?prescriptions about which actions are required, prohibited, or permitted? [11 Second, institutions could be labeled as social organizations including legislatures, government agencies, trade unions, and even societies [12].  These two definitions relate to each other.  The formal organizations in the latter definition create and shape the normative rules in the society in the formal definition.  Those rules and arrangements, in turn influence the decision and behavior of individuals and organizations in the society.  In viewing institutions more widely as varied social constructs, new institutionalism has included cultural beliefs, in addition to its formal legal historical roots Contemporary institutional theory focuses on developing a sociological view of institutions?the way they interact and the way they affect society.  New institutionalism attempts to answer how social choices are shaped, mediated, and channeled by institutional arrangements, since social choices are generally not free from institutions, customs, social norms, or legal procedures [13 New institutionalism recognizes that individuals and organizations live and operate in an environment consisting of institutions, called the institutional environment.  Every member of the society is influenced by this environment.  The New Institutionalists believe that social, economic and political factors constitute an institutional structure of 


political factors constitute an institutional structure of such an environment.  They also believe that the institutional environment can reduce uncertainty by providing dependable and efficient frameworks for economic exchange [14].  In order to survive individuals and organizations must conform to the rules and belief systems prevailing in the environment 15 Within IS research, King et al. defined institutions as ?any standing social entity that exerts influence and regulation over other social entities? [16].  They further argued that the relationship between environmental factors and e-commerce adoption could be explained using institutional theory.  Later in a cross-country study, the governmental, legal and cultural factors were analyzed as the institutional environments for ecommerce [9].  In that study, the institutional environment was defined as the ?set of fundamental political, social and legal ground rules that establish the basis for production, exchange and distribution? [9 Applied specifically to this study of global ecommerce adoption, institutionalism lays an important Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 theoretical foundation for constructing the research model \(see Figure 2 research model to a couple of specific hypotheses about the expected impact and effect of the legal and policy environment on e-commerce adoption  Figure 2.  The research model The model in Figure 2 conceptualizes and focuses on the expected directional relationships between ecommerce adoption and two major factors of the institutional environment?government policy and legal environment.  The posited relationships control for the effects of GDP per capita and another institutional factor, social &amp; cultural infrastructure, in different countries  3.2. Research hypotheses  3.2.1. Government policy. In early empirical studies Iacovou et al. found that the use of governmental subsidies and promotional efforts could lead to faster adoption of EDI in Canada [17].  Dasgupta et al. found that the government policy was an important determinant of IT adoption in India [18].  After a longitudinal study over 16 years, Wang concluded that building national IT infrastructure was a primary policy choice supporting IT adoption in Taiwan [19 When asked to identify the measures to encourage wider adoption and use of e-commerce, SMEs in the APEC region highly ranked the following government actions: improving telecom infrastructure, imposing fair tax policy for online transactions, developing national e-commerce strategy, enhancing government e-commerce use, providing e-commerce training, and promoting e-commerce use [20].  In a qualitative interview with seven SMEs in southern Italy interviewees indicated that governmental campaigns financial incentives and tax breaks were important external factors affecting their adoption of e-commerce 21].  Similarly, after interviewing 22 leading companies in five developing countries in the Caribbean region, Fraser et al. suggested that governments hoping to promote e-commerce should emphasize training, education, reducing telecom cost and improving its service [22 The adoption of e-commerce in Singapore was a good example of governmental support driving technology innovation.  Singapore was among the best 


performers of e-commerce around the world thanks to the government?s savvy early focus on e-commerce adoption [23].  The government in Singapore had a clear vision for e-commerce and IT development.  It did not only engage deeply in national IT development such as an e-commerce master plan and a series of initiatives to take it forward educational program exposing the society to ecommerce [20, 24].  Those government programs were impressive in increasing the level of understanding of e-commerce in Singapore [20].  Moreover, the government in Singapore encouraged e-commerce uptake by qualified local companies through subsidizing their costs of e-commerce consultancy Internet connections, and hardware and software purchases [25].  The government also provided tax incentives for foreign companies to use Singapore as their base for e-commerce activities in Asia [20 Among other economies, government influence affected positively the likelihood of EDI adoption in Hong Kong [26, 27].  Governmental promotions and supportive policies were related significantly to ecommerce decisions in China [28] and the extent of ecommerce adoption in Pakistan [29].  In the cases of Chile, the U.S. and South Korea, firms even felt the pressure from the government to adopt e-commerce 30-32].  On the other hand, lack of governmental support was a significant barrier to e-commerce adoption in Oman [33 Oxley et al. indicated that governments played a critical role in creating the institutional environment that fostered private investment [9].  Governmental actions should leverage and facilitate but not stifle ecommerce adoption.  Gibbs et al. argued that governmental promotions and incentives were a major enabler of e-commerce and that national policies for IT infrastructure, such as trade and telecommunication liberalization, were also likely to have a big impact on e-commerce by making IT more affordable to the society [34].  Shore suggested that governmental IT support could be provided through national policies for training and maintaining an adequate IT workforce 35].  Government?s role in supporting e-commerce adoption has been referred to as a leader, promoter facilitator, regulator, educator and financier [20 Mann further posited that the slowness or failure of ecommerce adoption in some developing countries were the consequence of policy inaction or wrong action by their governments [36].  The European Commission, in its e-business report, suggested that governmental policies aiming at promoting e-commerce should include, among others, 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 favorable environment; 2 training programs; and 3 of the public sector [37 Drawing on the theoretical arguments, together with the previous empirical findings, this study hypothesized that the government policy, such as national IT policy and initiatives, tax deductions and other financial incentives, educational and training programs, and governmental role model in e-commerce adoption, should have a positive impact on ecommerce adoption, as follows H1: The more supportive/effective is the governmental policy for e-commerce, the more prevalent is e-commerce adoption in the country  3.2.2. Legal environment. A number of cross-country studies using secondary data found that the legal environment in a country significantly affected e 


environment in a country significantly affected ecommerce activities and revenues in that country [9 38, 39].  A group of firm-level survey studies also showed that the regulatory environment was significantly important to determine both the breadth and depth of e-business adoption, especially in developing countries and newly industrialized economies [40-44].  A study of SMEs? e-commerce adoption in the APEC region further specified that an adequate legal framework supporting e-commerce was important for reducing uncertainties and building trust and confidence in the electronic marketplace; it was particularly important for lower GDP economies [20 Overall, the legal environment should be secure, stable and predictable for e-commerce adoption Unfortunately, the development of the legal framework for e-commerce was generally well behind developments in technology, and thus conducting business through the electronic networks raised numerous legal questions [20].  The key legal challenges could be found in different stages of ecommerce transaction 1 data and intellectual property protection of digital content 2 electronic contract and digital signature and security of online transaction; and 3 jurisdiction, validity of electronic evidence, and enforceability of court orders Absences of regulations and legislations were a major barrier and/or serious limitation to e-commerce adoption in the APEC region, Oman, Turkey, and UK 20, 33, 45, 46].  A study shows that e-commerce adoption was slow in the countries without adequate legal framework regulating rights and obligations in the intangible cyberspace [8].  For example, compared with the U.S., fewer firms in China adopted ecommerce due to the less friendly legal environment 8].  By contrast, the US legal environment was more supportive of e-commerce than in other countries.  It led to a higher percentage of US firms using ecommerce [8].  A related study confirmed that the U.S did have a better legal environment supporting ecommerce use than other countries and that US companies expressed fewer legal concerns when doing e-commerce [47].  On the other hand, APEC?s study on e-commerce adoption found that firms in lower GDP countries appeared to be more concerned about legal issues than similar firms in higher GDP countries [20 This concern might be due, in part, to a relative lack of adequate legal infrastructure for e-commerce in those lower GDP countries.  This issue was further reflected in Wang?s study in which he found that regulatory reform was critical for IT adoption in developing and newly industrialized economies [19 Several studies have developed theoretical arguments as to the best practices for regulating ecommerce.  They discussed numerous issues from legal frameworks to legislating efforts with respect to e-commerce [48-51].  In the real world, legal systems have tried to re-orient themselves to suit the needs of dynamic development and changes of e-commerce Since the Model Law on Electronic Commerce drafted by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law \(UNCITRAL countries and regions have passed and implemented various legislations and regulations related to ecommerce [52].  Many international and regional organizations, including the World Trade Organization WTO ICC 


WTO ICC Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development \(OECD EU Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation \(APEC been actively involved in policy-making for global ecommerce development The legal consideration was the root of traditional institutional theory.  Institutions were first the legal ground rules and procedures.  Institutional influences were therefore political in nature as when members in the society must conform to laws and regulations to earn the legitimacy [14, 15].  The legal institution should provide predictable, credible, coherent and adaptable rules for economic transactions.  Among those criteria, adaptability is particularly necessary because it helps ensure that the changes in social preferences, technology and other external factors can be accommodated by institutional structures [12 Accordingly, new institutionalism believed that the legal environment should reduce uncertainty by providing adequate, clear and efficient frameworks for economic change [14 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 Drawing on both theoretical and empirical assertions, this study hypothesized that an adequate adaptable and supportive legal environment could have a positive impact on e-commerce adoption, as follows H2: The more adequate/supportive is the legal environment, the more prevalent is e-commerce adoption in the country  4. Research methodology  4.1. Use of secondary data  The data collected by other research institutions government agencies or international bodies are called secondary data? or ?archival data?.  Secondary data analysis is especially appropriate for studies that cover large numbers of countries over time [53].  Some scholars argued that the intelligent use of secondary data sets plays a significant role in the development of research continuity and the accumulation of knowledge in IS research [54].  Furthermore, since the secondary data have been collected by a different organization the analyst has only minimal impact on the data collection process and thus has minimal researcher bias in the analysis [55].  Given the advantages provided by secondary analysis, there were several calls for employing secondary data in IS research [55, 56 However, it is still rare so far in IT adoption literature This study used secondary data collected and compiled by the UK-based Economist Intelligence Unit, a well-respected international research and advisory institution, to study e-commerce adoption across a number of countries and at two time points The EIU has published an annual e-readiness ranking since 2000.  A country?s e-readiness is essentially a set of measures of its e-business environment \(including business, legal, policy and culture environments which is conductive to its e-business adoption.  The earliest available data were in 2003 and the latest data were in 2007.  Based on a series of secondary data analyses conducted in this study, institutional theory in e-commerce adoption and its related hypotheses were tested Technically speaking, the concept of the institutional environment was difficult to measure directly in every country.  Therefore, e-readiness rankings in the EIU?s report were composite scores from aggregating scores in six distinct categories, and 


from aggregating scores in six distinct categories, and these six categories in turn were aggregated scores of nearly 100 quantitative and qualitative observable criteria.  The majority of original data were sourced from the EIU?s regularly calculated Country Forecasts Those national forecast indicators were scored on a scale from 1 to 10, reflecting qualitative assessments by the EIU?s extensive network of country analysts and reviewed by the EIU?s top economist team [25, 57  4.2. Multi-time point approach  Unlike most cross-sectional analyses that took place at a single point in time, this study involved a series of data collections and measurements at multiple points in time.  Phase-I of the data collection occurred in 2003.  It represented the early stage of e-commerce adoption?governments around the world began to take e-commerce into account in formatting economic policies.  Phase-II of the data collection occurred in 2007.  The data represented a snapshot of the latest development of e-commerce and its institutional environment.  The investigation repeated the secondary analysis in Phase-II to test the same \(or similar hypotheses as in Phase-I.  It was particularly important and interesting to see whether there were different effects of the legal and policy environments on ecommerce adoption at its beginning stage and when ecommerce model was becoming prevalent and routine This temporal approach to observe change of those institutional influences over time provides a better basis for causal inference than a single cross-sectional study does [58].  It also enhanced the comprehension and explanation of the institutional circumstances that affected e-commerce adoption  4.3. Sample  4.3.1. Phase-I \(2003 secondary data analysis at Phase-I, this study used the EIU E-readiness Rankings of 2003 and there were 60 countries \(N1=60 covered the world?s 60 largest economies, which accounted for 95% of global GDP [57].Third-order headings, as in this paragraph, are discouraged However, if you must use them, use 10-point Times boldface, initially capitalized, flush left, followed by a period and your text on the same line  4.3.2. Phase-II \(2007 into the latest available data from the 2007 EIU Ereadiness Rankings.  The sample size extended from 60 countries covered in Phase-I to 69 countries \(N2=69 The samples in both phases represented an exhaustive set of countries for which reliable institutional environment dada and e-commerce data were available at the time of data collection  4.4. Variable list  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 4.4.1. Phase-I \(2003 composite categories from the 2003 EIU E-readiness Rankings for the Phase-I secondary data analysis.  The independent variable \(IV the composite score of ?legal and policy environment LPE framework, laws covering e-commerce, and government policy.  The dependent variable \(DV Phase-I was represented by the composite score of consumer and business adoption? \(CBA 


consumer and business adoption? \(CBA reflected the prevalence of e-commerce practices in each country.  Another composite score of ?social and cultural infrastructure? \(SCI control variable \(CV literacy??the receptivity to e-commerce and proclivity to business innovation and entrepreneurship.  National GDP per capita \(GDPPP second CV.  The data were obtained from IMF International Monetary Fund  4.4.2. Phase-II \(2007 measurements of national e-readiness at annual intervals.  However, the variables in the rankings have been continuously updated and refined from year to year.  This was because of the dynamism of the IT developments and the need to review the appropriate set of variables in good time in order to improve the data quality.  The revisions also made the new sets of variables used in the Phase-II analyses better match the research model than the ones used in Phase I Specifically speaking, the legal environment category \(LE focused look at the specific regulatory frameworks that influence e-adoption [59].  As a reflection of its greater emphasis on the role of governments in fostering ebusiness, the EIU isolated the effect of government policy from the original category of ?legal and policy environment? and created its own category government policy and vision? \(GP process of refinement was undertaken by the EIU analyst panel led by the director of global technology research.  All assessments were, in turn, reviewed by the EIU?s senior economist team [59].  Accordingly there were two IVs at Phase-II: LE and GP.  The DV and two CVs remained the same at Phase II: CBA, SCI and GDPPP \(all reflecting new scores in 2007  5. Data analyses and results  5.1. Phase-I \(2003  The descriptive statistics of the IV and DV used in the Phase-I data analysis are shown in Table 1 Table 1.  Descriptive statistics of the EIU 2003 data Item Mean Minimum Maximum Std Deviation LPE 6.34 2.10 8.90 2.07 CBA 5.51 1.00 9.10 2.47 Multiple regression was used to test the research model.  Upon satisfying all assumptions, the regression model is shown in Table 2.  The result showed that LPE was a significant predictor of e-commerce adoption \(p&lt;0.01 positive coefficient of the IV confirmed LPE?s role as a strong e-commerce facilitator.  Whenever the legal &amp policy environment increased 1 standard deviation and other independents \(SCI and GDPPP constant, the average amount of e-commerce adoption would increase 0.56 standard deviation.  The legal &amp policy factor was almost twice as important as the social &amp; cultural factor.  It was also notable that the standard error for each regression coefficient was low making the confidence interval narrow and indicating a good prediction Table 2.  The multiple regression model \(EIU 2003 Beta Std. Error t Significance LPE 0.556 0.097 5.716 0.000 SCI 0.288 0.118 2.427 0.019 GDPPP 0.154 0.091 1.678 0.101 Overall, R2 in the full regression model \(with the IV and CVs together in e-commerce adoption in the EIU 2003 sample was 


explained jointly by legal &amp; policy environment, social amp; cultural infrastructure and GDP per capita  5.2. Phase-II \(2007  The descriptive statistics of the two IVs and DV used in the Phase-II data analysis are shown in Table 3 Table 3.  Descriptive statistics of the EIU 2007 data Item Mean Minimum Maximum Std Deviation LE 6.73 2.10 9.70 1.84 GP 6.33 2.50 9.85 2.08 CBA 6.37 2.50 9.50 2.08 The regression model is shown in Table 4.  The result showed that GP was the most significant predictor of e-commerce adoption \(p&lt;0.01 2007 sample.  The effect of LE on e-commerce adoption was not found significant here.  The relative importance of the two IVs in predicting a country?s ecommerce usage in this given model was about 1:2.89 corresponding to the ratio of unique contributions of legal environment and government policy Table 4.  The multiple regression model \(EIU 2007 Beta Std. Error t Significance LE 0.131 0.086 1.531 0.131 GP 0.379 0.088 4.303 0.000 SCI 0.184 0.095 1.942 0.057 GDPPP 0.329 0.073 4.524 0.000 Overall, R2 in the full regression model \(with the IVs and CVs together variance in e-commerce adoption in the EIU 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 sample was explained jointly by legal environment government policy, social &amp; cultural infrastructure and GDP per capita  6. Discussion and conclusion  6.1. Discussion of findings  The secondary data analyses in this study were able to demonstrate the cause-effect relationship between the institutional environment and e-commerce adoption.  Specifically speaking, the legal and policy environment did exert a substantial positive impact on e-commerce adoption around the world at the early stage of e-commerce \(the worldwide average score of e-commerce was only 5.51 out of 10 in the EIU 2003 sample government financial support of e-commerce and related infrastructure projects, effectiveness of legal framework, and laws covering e-commerce, together they fostered consumers and businesses in many countries to engage in e-commerce in 2003.  This finding proved the institutional perspective about the critical role of government policy and legal environment in driving e-commerce adoption Four years later, in 2007, the global average score of e-commerce improved from 5.51 to 6.37, at a rate of 16%.  As e-commerce became more prevalent in the world, supportive government policy still provided a powerful explanation for variations in e-commerce adoption around the world.  On the other hand, the impact of legal environment was reduced.  A possible explanation from the perspective of institutionalism is that a predictive and effective legal environment was important to reduce the institutional uncertainty and ensure the trust and confidence in e-commerce activities, especially during the initial stage of ecommerce development.  A good legal system is a safeguard for online commercial transactions Nevertheless, the encouraging influence of legal 


Nevertheless, the encouraging influence of legal environment would be diminished as people understand e-commerce better and e-commerce becomes a common practice in the society  6.2. Policy implication  An effective research project is not only used to explain and predict social phenomena, but also to help humans master them to achieve social objectives through yielding useful policy recommendations [60 All sound policy prescriptions should rely on a solid theory base, valid data analysis, and rational discussion.  In reality, however, policymakers generally lack adequate scientific evidence and knowledge for making crucial decisions on ecommerce development.  The application of institutional theory in e-commerce adoption and its empirical findings in this study have a clear relevance to policy makers.  If we understand better at the theoretical level how those institutional factors would produce an outcome of e-commerce adoption, we then have the basis for a conditional prediction in the real world on how e-commerce will develop in a certain environment.  It will help policy makers to formulate appropriate policies to accelerate e-commerce adoption Experience has taught us that it is important to build a friendly climate for technology innovation and diffusion.  The effects of the legal and policy environments will depend to a significant extent on how policy-makers and other stakeholders will act and influence.  According to this study, this is particularly vital at the starting stage of e-commerce.  The advancement in e-commerce adoption at Phase I 2003 environment and government policy.  In particular proactive government policies were the prime mover of e-commerce in many developing countries, and it is still a driving force of e-commerce diffusion today The fosterage of government policy is summarized as follows.  First, government policies that encourage investment in IT adoption, particularly the financial incentives, are stimulating to e-commerce development.  Second, government efforts to promote an open and free trade environment, including deregulating telecom markets, improving IT infrastructure, and conducting e-procurement itself will encourage e-commerce adoption and diffusion Third, government?s assurance on recognizing econtracts and providing legitimate legal frameworks will facilitate e-commerce activities.  Fourth government?s educational and training program will foster ?e-literacy? and greater awareness of ecommerce among businesses.  Last, cooperation between government and private sector is a key to ecommerce On the other hand, this study also shows that the lack of adequate legal framework might be a concern for engaging in e-commerce at first, but that the lack thereof would not deter the society from further ecommerce diffusion. Thus, after an initial push on ecommerce adoption, legislations should not interfere directly in private investments in e-commerce until there is a clear sign of market uncertainty and disturbance Finally, as Kofi Annan, the former SecretaryGeneral of UN, indicated, ?if all countries are to be benefited [from e-commerce], ? more needs to be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally 


done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally and internationally.? [7  7. References  1] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2007," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2007 2] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2002," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2002 3] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2006," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2006 4] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2001," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2001 5] R. Tehan, "E-commerce statistics: Explanation and sources,"  Washington, D.C.: Congressional Research Service, The Library of Congress, 2003 6] W. J. Clinton and J. Albert Gore, "A Framework for Global Electronic Commerce,"  Washington, D.C.: The White House, 1997 7] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2004," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2004 8] C.-F. Shih, J. Dedrick, and K. L. Kraemer, "Rule of law and the international diffusion of e-commerce," Association for Computing Machinery. Communications of the ACM, vol 48, p. 57, Nov 2005 9] J. E. Oxley and B. Yeung, "E-commerce readiness Institutional environment and international competitiveness Journal of International Business Studies, vol. 32, pp. 705723, 2001 10] K. A. Shepsle, "Institutional equilibrium and equilibrium institutions," in Political Science: The Science of Politics, H. Weisburg, Ed. New York: Agathon, 1986, pp 51-82 11] E. Ostrom, "An agenda for the study of institutions Public Choice, vol. 48, pp. 3-25, 1986 12] J. Ahrens, "The New Institutional Economics," in Governance and economic development Northampton, MA Edward Elgar, 2002, pp. 48-68 13] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "Introduction," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W Powell and P. J. DiMaggio, Eds. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp. 1-38 14] D. C. North, "The New Institutional Economics Journal of institutional and theoretical economics, vol. 142 pp. 230-237, 1986 15] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "The iron cage revisited: Institutional isomorphism and collective rationality in organization fields," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W. Powell and P. J. DiMaggio Eds. Chicago, IL: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp 63-82 16] J. L. King, V. Gurbaxani, K. L. Kraemer, F. W McFarlan, K. S. Raman, and C. S. Yap, "Institutional factors in information technology innovation," Information Systems Research, vol. 5, pp. 139-169, 1994 17] C. L. Iacovou, I. Benbasat, and A. S. Dexter, "Electronic data interchange and small organizations: Adoption and impact of technology," MIS Quarterly, vol. 19, pp. 465-485 December 1995 18] S. Dasgupta, D. Agarwal, A. Ioannidis, and S Gopalakrishnan, "Determinants of information technology adoption: An extension of existing models to firms in a developing country," Journal of Global Information Management, vol. 7, pp. 30-45, 1999 19] E. H.-h. Wang, "ICT and economic development in Taiwan: analysis of the evidence," Telecommunications Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 


Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 20] PWC, "SME Electronic Commerce Study \(final report Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation APEC PWC September 1999 September 24th 1999 21] A. Scupola, "The adoption of Internet commerce by SMEs in the south of Italy: An environmental, technological and organizational perspective," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 6, pp. 52-71 2003 22] S. Fraser and W. Wresch, "National competitive advantage in e-commerce efforts: A report from five caribbean nations," Perspectives on Global Development and Technology, vol. 4, pp. 27-44, 2005 23] I. Mia and S. Dutta, "Connecting the world to the networked economy: A progress report based on the findings of the Networked Readiness Index 2006-2007," in The global information technology report 2006-2007: Connecting to the networked economy, S. Dutta and I. Mia, Eds. Hampshire UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007, pp. 3-21 24] S. M. B. Thatcher, W. Foster, and L. Zhu, "B2B ecommerce adoption decisions in Taiwan: The interaction of cultural and other institutional factors," Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, vol. 5, pp. 92-104, 2006 25] EIU, "The 2003 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2003 26] P. Y. K. Chau and K. L. T. Hui, "Determinants of small business EDI adoption: An empirical investigation," Journal of Organizational Computing &amp; Electronic Commerce, vol 11, pp. 229-252, 2001 27] K. K. Y. Kuan and P. Y. K. Chau, "A perception-based model for EDI adoption in small businesses using a technology-organization-environment framework Information &amp; Management, vol. 38, pp. 507-521, October 2001 28] L. Cui, C. Zhang, C. Zhang, and L. Huang, "Exploring e-government impact on Shanghai firms' informatization process," Electronic Markets, vol. 16, p. 312, 2006 29] A. H. Seyal, M. M. Awais, S. Shamail, and A. Abbas Determinants of electronic commerce in Pakistan Preliminary evidence from small and medium enterprises Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 372-387, 2004 30] E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "E-commerce adoption Perceptions of managers/owners of small and medium sized firms in Chile," Communications of the Association for Information Systems, vol. 13, pp. 81-102, 2004 31] E. E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "Electronic commerce adoption: An empirical study of small and medium US businesses," Information &amp; Management, vol. 42, pp. 197216, December 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 32] Y.-B. Joo and Y. G. Y.-G. Kim, "Determinants of corporate adoption of e-marketplace: An innovation theory perspective," Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management, vol. 10, pp. 89-101, March 2004 33] A. M. Khalfan and A. Alshawaf, "Adoption and implementation problems of e-banking: A study of the managerial perspective of the banking industry in Oman Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol 7, pp. 47-64, 2004 34] J. Gibbs, K. L. Kraemer, and J. Dedrick, "Environment and policy factors shaping global e-commerce diffusion: A cross-country comparison," The Information Society, vol. 19 pp. 5-18, 2003 35] B. Shore, "Information sharing in global supply chain systems," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 4, pp. 27-50, 2001 36] C. L. Mann, "Electronic commerce, networked readiness, and trade competitiveness," in The global information technology report 2001-2002: Readiness for the networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D 


networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D Sachs, and K. Schwab, Eds. New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2002, pp. 90-103 37] EC, "The European e-Business Report 2006/07 edition e-Business W@tch, European Commission, Bonn, Germany 2006 2006 2006 38] G. Ndubizu and B. Arinze, "Legal determinants of the global spread of e-commerce," International Journal of Information Management  vol. 22, pp. 181-194, June 2002 39] H. Zhao, S. Kim, T. Suh, and J. Du, "Social institutional explanations of global Internet diffusion: A cross-country analysis," Journal of Global Information Management, vol 15, pp. 28-55, April-June 2007 40] J. L. Gibbs and K. L. Kraemer, "A cross-country investigation of the determinants of scope of e-commerce use: An institutional approach," Electronic Markets, vol. 14 pp. 124-137, June 2004 41] S. Xu, K. Zhu, and J. Gibbs, "Global technology, local adoption: A cross-country investigation of Internet adoption by companies in the United States and China," Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 13-24, 2004 42] K. Zhu and K. L. Kraemer, "Post-adoption variations in usage and value of e-business by organizations: Crosscountry evidence from the retail industry," Information Systems Research, vol. 16, pp. 61-84, March 2005 43] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, and S. Xu, "The process of innovation assimilation by firms in different countries: A technology diffusion perspective on E-business Management Science, vol. 52, pp. 1557-1576, October 2006 44] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, S. Xu, and J. Dedrick Information technology payoff in e-business environments An international perspective on value creation of e-business in the financial services industry," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 21, pp. 17-54, Summer 2004 45] E. Kaynak, E. Tatoglu, and V. Kula, "An analysis of the factors affecting the adoption of electronic commerce by SMEs: Evidence from an emerging market," International Marketing Review, vol. 22, pp. 623-640, 2005 46] M. Simpson and A. J. Docherty, "E-commerce adoption support and advice for UK SMEs," Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development, vol. 11, pp. 315-328, 2004 47] P.-F. Hsu, K. L. Kraemer, and D. Dunkle, "Determinants of e-business use in U.S. firms," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 10, pp. 9-45, Summer 2006 48] R. Bond and C. Whiteley, "Untangling the Web: A review of certain secure e-commerce legal issues International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 12, pp. 349-370, 1998 49] A. D. Mitchell, "Towards compatibility: The future of electronic commerce within the global trading system Journal of International Economic Law, vol. 4, p. 683, 2001 50] A. D. Murray, D. W. Vick, and S. Wortley, "Regulating e-commerce: Formal transactions in the digital age International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 13, pp. 127-145, 1999 51] G. I. Zekos, "MNEs, globalisation and digital economy Legal and economic aspects," Managerial Law, vol. 45, pp 5-296, 2003 52] Baker&amp;McKenzie, "Global E-commerce Law Resources," http://www.bakernet.com/ecommerce, Baker &amp McKenzie Law Firm, 2004 53] C. Hakim, "Research reviews, meta-analysis and secondary analysis," in Research Design: Successful designs for social and economic research, Second ed New York Routledge, 2000, pp. 21-33 54] K. L. Kraemer, "Introduction," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3 K. L. Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School 1991, pp. xiii-xvii 55] V. Gurbaxani and H. Mendelson, "The use of secondary analysis in MIS research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L 


Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 71-106 56] H. C. Lucas, "Methodological issues in information systems survey research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 273-285 57] EIU, "The 2001 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2001 58] V. Jupp, The Sage Dictionary of Social Research Methods. London: Sage Publications, 2006 59] EIU, "The 2007 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2007 60] S. V. Evera, Guide to Methods for Students of Political Science. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 1997   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


