html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Improvements to Neutron Data Relevant to GCR Transport Lawrence Heilbronn University of Tennessee 214 Pasqua Engineering Building Knoxville, TN  37996 865-974-0982 LHeilbro@utk.edu  Lawrence Townsend University of Tennessee 216 Pasqua Engineering Building Knoxville, TN  37996 865-974-7569 LTownsen@utk.edu  Hiroshi Iwase Radiation Science Center KEK, Oho 1 Tsukuba 305-0801 Japan Hiroshi.Iwase@KEK.jp  Takashi Nakamura Cyclotron and Radioisotope Center Tohoku University Aoba, Aramaki, Sendai 980-8578 Japan nakamura.takashi@shimz.co.jp    Abstract  There is an existing database of secondary neutron production cross sections and thick-target yields from heavy-ion interactions that have been used extensively for benchmarking transport model calculations such as PHITS, MARS, FLUKA, GEANT4, HETC-HEDS MCNPX-HI, and SHIELD-HIT. These data are especially relevant to the development of transport models used to simulate Galactic Cosmic Ray \(GCR shielding. Improvements have been made recently to neutron detection efficiency codes that are used to produce the experimental data base. We have re-evaluated some of the existing secondary neutron data using the updated neutron detection efficiency code, and will soon compare the re-evaluated data with PHITS model calculations. The re-evaluation may have an impact for high-energy neutrons that dominate the spectra at forward angles. Based on the data shown in this paper, it appears that the re-evaluation will have a small, negative impact on the overall agreement between data and calculation. 1 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 1 1978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1315, Version 5, Updated October 31, 2008 2. SCINFUL CALCULATIONS AND RESULTS ......................... 3 3. CONCLUSIONS.................................................................. 5 REFERENCES........................................................................ 5 BIOGRAPHY ......................................................................... 6 1. INTRODUCTION Over the past 20 years there has been an international effort to measure secondary particle production cross sections and thick-target yields from heavy ion interactions.  The primary motivation was to provide experimental data for input to and verification of transport model calculations.  Associated with the effort in the development of an experimental heavy-ion induced secondary-ion data base has been an effort to include heavy-ion interactions into various transport models 


transport models One particular aspect of secondary particle production of particular interest is secondary neutron thick-target yields TTY ddX interactions.  These data provide the developers of transport models such as PHITS [1], SHIELD-HIT [2], MCNPX-HI 3], FLUKA [4-7], MARS [8], HETC-HEDS [9], and GEANT4 [10] an extensive set of light-ion, threedimensional particle data.  These transport models are used extensively in the fields of hadron therapy, accelerator 2 design, shielding design for missions in space, radiobiology and radio-imaging. Because the production and transport of secondary neutrons is an important factor in all of those fields, neutron data from heavy-ion interactions is a critical need Thin target double differential cross section \(ddX such as those of Iwata el al. [11] and Sato et al. [12 provide a direct test of the particle production mechanisms used in transport models.  For those models that rely on cross section data bases or parameterizations of particle production cross sections, those data provide a verification of the input cross sections.  At the present time, the measured secondary neutron production cross sections are the most extensive set of three-dimensional light-ion data available.  Cross sections have been measured from over 70 different heavy-ion systems \(with a system being defined as a single heavy-ion projectile with one particular energy incident upon one species of target between angles of 0 degrees and 120 degrees in the laboratory Double-differential stopping target yields \(TTY for verification of the complete transport process production + transport of the secondary particles transport model calculations.  The TTY data of Kurosawa et al. [13], [14], [15] are an example of the type of secondary neutron TTY data that are available.  Altogether, over 70 secondary neutron TTY data sets have been measured in the past 20 years, with the measurements ranging between 0 degrees and 160 degrees in the laboratory Results from the last 20 years of neutron TTY and ddX measurements have been collected in a handbook that was published recently [16].  The handbook also contains data on activation products \(spallation products that remain in the target thick shielding.  The transport modeling community has begun making benchmark comparisons between data such as those contained in the handbook with the calculated values from their particular transport models.  Recent developments in codes used to calculate neutron detection efficiency, a crucial aspect of any neutron measurement have suggested that the existing experimental data base can be further refined, providing a more accurate comparison between model and data Neutron Detection Efficiency For high-energy secondary neutron measurements, it is necessary to take into account the detection efficiency of the detectors used in the experiment.  In nearly all of the neutron experiments described in the data handbook, liquid scintillators were used for detecting neutrons.  These types of detectors are well known, and their detection efficiencies have been calculated using a widely used code developed by Cecil [17].  One potential drawback to using this code is that it uses constant cross sections above 200 MeV, so the only variance of detector efficiency with neutron energy above that threshold is due to geometrical effects.  For highenergy heavy-ion interactions, neutron energies can extend up to several GeV.  In order to better estimate detection efficiency above 200 MeV, a new efficiency code was recently developed SCINFUL-QMD Satoh et al. have recently developed a new neutron 


Satoh et al. have recently developed a new neutron detection efficiency code called SCINFUL-QMD \(JAEAData/Code 2006-023  on the SCINFUL code [19] developed at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.  The SCINFUL code is designed to provide the full response anticipated for neutron interactions in either liquid or solid cylindrical organic scintillators by means of the Monte Carlo method. The incident neutron energy range is set at 0.1 to 80 MeV. SCINFUL treats 39 reaction channels, starting from 11 initial channels. A comparison of the initial reaction channels used in the Cecil code and SCINFUL is shown in Table 1 Table 1.  Comparison of the initial reaction channels used in SCINFUL and in the Cecil code  SCINFUL Cecil H\(n,n n,n C\(n,n n,n C\(n n C\(n n C\(n,3 n,3 C\(n,np n,np C\(n,2n C\(n,p C\(n,d C\(n,t C\(n,3He  SCINFUL-QMD divides the nuclear reaction into two stages; the dynamical and the statistical processes, each according to their typical collision times. The QMD Quantum Molecular Dynamics simulation method that approximates the nucleon wave nature by the use of a Gaussian-type function. The behavior of individual nucleons is calculated as time progresses during the interaction.  The SDM \(Statistical Decay Model simulates light-particle evaporation by using a Monte Carlo method until no particles are emitted.  The model employs the Weisskopf-Ewing formulation to describe light particle emission from the excited remnant. This method does not treat gamma-ray emissions. The QMD method is utilized for 3 the dynamical process and the SDM for the subsequent statistical process The method of combining QMD+SDM is widely used to describe various nuclear reactions. The validation of this model has been confirmed for incident energies from 100 MeV to 3 GeV.  SCINFUL-QMD utilizes the cross section libraries of SCINFUL through 80 MeV, and then extends those cross sections via extrapolation up to 150 MeV Above 150 MeV, the method of QMD+SDM is utilized Light output in SCINFUL-QMD is taken from light-output tables in SCINFUL.  The light output from each neutron event in a scintillator is collected from each interaction within the detector cell until the secondaries have either stopped or escaped the cell.  For liquid scintillators, care must be taken in tracking recoil charged secondaries through the liquid.  If, for example, a neutron produces a single recoil proton, and that recoil proton subsequently escapes the detector before stopping, the ability of that detector to distinguish between gamma-ray events and neutron events is lost \(the neutron event winds up on the gamma-ray line in a typical total-charge versus tail-charge discrimination plot gamma-ray line on a neutron-gamma discrimination plot is thrown out, even though that event may be a neutron event SCINFUL-QMD has the capability of taking those type of events into account, thus providing an accurate measure of the true neutron detection efficiency \(an efficiency that takes into account both the probability of a neutron interaction and the probability of events lost due to charged secondary particle escape 


secondary particle escape 2. SCINFUL CALCULATIONS AND RESULTS Figure 1 shows a comparison of neutron detection efficiencies between calculations performed with SCINFUL-QMD and with the Cecil code.  An efficiency of 1.0 means 100% detection efficiency.  The blue symbols show the results from SCINFUL-QMD, and the pink symbols show the results from the Cecil code.  Both calculations were run using a detection threshold of 0.93 MeVee \(electron equivalent energy about 3 MeVneutron energy.  The detector used for both was a 5-inch \(diameter length 213 scintillator cell.  In this case, neutron events which led to a charged secondary escaping the scintillator before stopping were counted as valid neutron events.  As can be seen, there is a systematic difference between the two codes with the Cecil code predicting a higher efficiency at all energies 0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 0.4 1 10 100 1000 Neutron Energy \(MeV N eu tr on D et ec tio n Ef fic ie nc y SCINFUL Cecil code Figure 1  Results from the Cecil code calculation \(pink symbols blue symbols neutron detection efficiencies are given as fractions \(1.0 100% efficicency Figure 2 shows a plot of the ratio of the two codes \(Cecil calculation divided by the SCINFUL calculation function of neutron energy.  The ratio varies between 1 and 1.4, with most values between 1.1 and 1.2.  The greatest difference between the two codes lies between 200 and 600 MeV, which turns out to be a critical area for most of the experimental data sets mentioned in the introduction.  It should be noted that as the threshold energy increases up to values corresponding to 20 MeV neutron energy, the differences become greater.  This is in agreement with previous comparisons between SCINFUL-QMD and the Cecil code [18] where the light emitted from escaping recoil particles is included 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3 


1.3 1.4 1.5 0 200 400 600 800 1000 Ratio \(Cecil/SCINFUL N eu tr on E ne rg y M eV  Cecil/SCINFUL  Figure 2  Ratio of the results from the Cecil code divided by the SCINFUL-QMD code, using the data from Figure 1 4 Data Revision Once SCINFUL calculations have been done for the relevant detector geometries and applied energy thresholds the new  Figure 3  Double differential cross sections for secondary neutron production from 600  MeV/nucleon Ne interactions in a target composed of Martian regolith stimulant and polyethylene.  The data are shown with  the plotting symbols note the successive factors of 10 for display purposes  calculations of the data, and the blue histograms show SHIELD-HIT calculations detector efficiencies can be incorporated into the existing data sets to provide improved, updated cross sections and thick target yields In general, comparisons of the old data sets \(data generated using the Cecil efficiency code agreement with the data.  However, the codes, in general missed at the peak neutron energies at forward angles Another area where the codes and data have their largest disagreements is for light systems where either the projectile or target \(or both issue here is the following: does the replacement of the old neutron detection efficiencies with an improved model bring the data and transport models into closer agreement Figure 3 shows secondary neutron production cross sections from 600 MeV/nucleon interacting in a target that was comprised of 85% simulated Martian regolith and 15 polyethylene.  The data are shown with the plotting symbols, at the angles indicated in the legends.  The spectra are offset by the indicated factors of 10.  The red and blue histograms show the results from PHITS and SHIELD-HIT 5 respectively this data set were between 3 and 5 MeV \(neutron energy so the trends in detection efficiency seen in Figures 1 and 2 will apply to this data set.  Because the SCINFUL-QMD calculations are on the order of 20 to 25 percent lower than the Cecil calculation used to produce the data seen in Figure 3, application of the SCINFUL-QMD efficiencies will increase the magnitude of the cross sections by 20 to 25 percent, on average The transport model calculations reproduce the shapes of the spectra very well.  That agreement indicates that the reaction dynamics employed by those models are sufficient to describe the three mechanisms producing those neutrons namely projectile breakup, decay and breakup of the overlap region, and statistical decay of the target remnant In general, however, the magnitudes of the spectra are 


underestimated by the model calculations.  A correction to the data by applying SCINFUL-QMD efficiencies will make that disagreement worse.  However, the models are underestimating the spectra by factors of 2 in some cases an increase of the spectra by 20 to 25% will not alter the overall conclusions determined by the comparisons The re-evaluation of the data will continue, with a focus on the light-mass target and projectile systems.   Those systems have shown the largest disagreement with transport model calculations.  A discussion with the authors of SCINFULQMD has indicated that there may be an overestimation of those spectra by the model calculations, in which case the re-evaluation of the data will lead to a better agreement 3. CONCLUSIONS A new, improved model for calculating neutron detector efficiencies has been developed.  The new model leads to an improvement in detection efficiencies for neutrons above 150 MeV.  This new model will have a direct impact on secondary neutron production TTY and ddX data sets that employed the Cecil code for neutron detection efficiency especially for the data recently measured from heavy-ion systems.  As transport models continue to implement and develop physics models used for heavy ion interactions, the experimental neutron data they use for benchmark verification will need to be re-evaluated.  Preliminary indications show that the re-evaluation for a medium-mass system will make the comparison between data and transport model slightly worse.  The re-evaluation of all of the secondary neutron data will be needed in order to make a determination on whether or not the new efficiency calculation will have a significant impact on the development of heavy-ion transport models REFERENCES 1] H. Iwase, K. Niita, and T. Nakamura  Development of General-Purpose Particle and Heavy Ion Transport Monte Carlo Code  Journ. Nucl. Sci. Tech., 39, 1142-1151 2002 2] I. Gudowska, N. M. Sobolevsky, P. Andreo, D. Belki? and A. Brahme  Ion beam transport in tissue-like media using the Monte Carlo code SHIELD-HIT  Phys. Med. Biol 49, 1933, 2004 3] M. R. James, G. W. McKinney, J. S. Hendricks, and M Moyers  Recent enhancements in MCNPX: Heavy-ion transport and the LAQGSM physics model  Nucl Instrum. Meth. A, 562, 819-822, 2006 4] A. Fass  A. Ferrari, J. Ranft, P. R. Sala  New Developments in FLUKA Modeling Hadronic and EM Interactions  Proc. of 3rd Workshop on Simulating Accelerator Radiation Environments \(SARE 3 Tsukuba, Japan, May 7-9, KEK Proceedings 97-5, H/R/D Ed. H.Hirayama, 1997 5] A. Ferrari, P. R. Sala, A. Fass  and J. Ranft  FLUKA: A multi-particle transport code  CERN 2005-10, 2005. \(see also INFN/TC 05/11 and SLAC-R-773 6] A. Fass  et al  The physics models of FLUKA: Status and recent developments  Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics Conference 2003, La Jolla, CA USA, March 24-28, paper MOMT005, Conf. C0303241 2003.  arXiv:hepph/0306267 7] G. Battistoni et al., The FLUKA code: Description and benchmarking  Proc. H6606, AIP Conference Proceedings 896, 31-49, 2007 8] N. V. Mokhov  The MARS Code System User  s Guide  Fermilab-FN-628, 1995 9] L. W. Townsend, T. M. Miller, and T. A. Gabriel  HETC Radiation Transport Code Development for Cosmic Ray Shielding Applications in Space  Radiat. Prot. Dosim 116, 135-139, 2005 10] S. Agostinelli et al  GEANT4  A simulation toolkit   Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 506, 250-303, 2003 


Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 506, 250-303, 2003 http://GEANT4.cern.ch 11] Y. Iwata, T. Murakami, H. Sato, H. Iwase, T. Nakamura T. Kurosawa, L. Heilbronn, R. M. Ronningen, K. Ieki, Y Tozawa, and K. Niita  Double-differential cross sections for the neutron production from heavy-ion reactions at energies E/A = 290-600 MeV  Phys. Rev. C 64, 054609 2001 6 12] H. Sato, T. Kurosawa, H. Iwase, T. Nakamura, Y Uwamino, and N. Nakao  Measurements of double differential neutron production cross sections by 135 MeV/nucleon He, C, Ne and 95 MeV/nucleon Ar ions   Phys. Rev. C 64 034607, 2001 13] T. Kurosawa, N. Nakao, T. Nakamura, Y. Uwamino, T Shibata, N. Nakanishi, A. Fukumura, and K. Murakami  Measurements of secondary neutrons produced from thick targets bombarded by high energy helium and carbon ions  Nucl. Sci. and Eng. 132, 30-57, 1999 14] T. Kurosawa, N. Nakao, T. Nakamura, Y. Uwamino, T Shibata, A. Fukumura, and K. Murakami  Measurements of Secondary Neutrons Produced from Thick Targets Bombarded by High Energy Neon Ions  Journ. of Nucl Sci. and Tech. 36, 41-53, 1999 15] T. Kurosawa, N. Nakao, T. Nakamura, H. Iwase, H Sato, Y. Uwamino, and A. Fukumura  Neutron yields from thick C, Al, Cu, and Pb targets bombarded by 400 MeV/nucleon Ar, Fe, Xe and 800 MeV/nucleon Si ions   Phys. Rev. C 62, 2000 16] Takashi Nakamura and Lawrence Heilbronn, Handbook on Secondary Particle Production and Transport by High Energy Heavy Ions, 5 Toh Tuck Link, Singapore 596224 World Scientific Publishing, 2006 17] R.A. Cecil, B.D. Anderson, and R. Madey  Improved Predictions of Neutron Efficiency for Hydrocarbon Scintillators from 1 MeV to about 300 MeV  Nucl Instrum. Methods 161, 439, 1979 18] D. Satoh, S. Kuneida, Y. Iwamoto, N. Shigyo, and K Ishibashi  Development of SCINFUL-QMD Code to Calculate the Neutron Detection Efficiencies for Liquid Organic Scintillator up to 3 GeV  Journal of Nuclear and Technology, Suppl. 2, 657-660, 2002 19] J. K. Dickens  SCINFUL: A Monte Carlo Based Program to Determine a Scintillator Full Energy Response to Neutron Detection for En between 0.1 and 80 MeV   Technical Report ORNL-6436, 1988 BIOGRAPHY Lawrence Heilbronn is an assistant professor at the University of Tennessee in the Department of Nuclear Engineering.  Prior to joining the faculty at UT in 2008, he was a scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.  He is an experimental nuclear physicist specializing in measurements of high-energy neutrons in accelerator-based experiments Lawrence Townsend is a full professor at the University of Tennessee.  He is a theorist specializing in high-energy and nuclear physics.  He is the principle and contributing author of several transport models, including NUCFRG HETC-HEDS, and UBERNSPEC Hiroshi Iwase is a scientist at the High Energy Accelerator Research Organization \(KEK an experimentalist and theorist specializing in neutron measurements and transport models.  He is a coauthor of the transport model PHITS, and has coauthored several papers on the production of secondary neutrons from heavy ion interactions Takashi Nakamura is a Professor Emeritus at Tohoku University in Sendai Japan.  He is a consultant to several corporations in Japan, including Shimizu Corporation.  He is an experimental nuclear physicist, and has received numerous awards, including the Ichimura Award 


numerous awards, including the Ichimura Award Innovative technological invention Distinguished Service Award for Nuclear Safety by the Minister of the Science and Technology Agency of Japan 2000 C. Morgan Lecturer Award  7  pre></body></html 


  9  Figure 6 SVM performance for 2-4 classes, with and without mislabel filtration, using linear and Gaussian kernels. X axis are F-measure while y-axis are FPOS from the same training image \(Likely\ or from distant non-sulfur-bearing images Sulfur-Free 


  10  Figure 7 Location of "Likely False Positives." Note the geographic separation of bright/dark sulfur in the middle frame \(violet/green\ows the origin of the bimodal population among sulfur. Red is a false positive Extending these results to Gaussian kernels \(using only Expert and RFE bands\ields the last set of graphs. Note that both C and the Gaussian width eters here resulting in 252 configura tions per band selection set instead of 36 for a linear ke rnel. The Gaussian SVMs achieved a mean F-measure of 0.93 and maximum Fmeasure of 0.98 using the 4-class filtered dataset, exceeding the best performance of the lin ear kernel. Mean sulfur-Free FPOS remains at ~ 50 pixels per image, while mean Likely FPOS remains high at again mean ~1000 detections per image. However, certain parameter pairings do show significant promise  False Positives in the Training Images \223Likely FPOS\224  Our inability to extinguish unw anted false positives on the training images is troubling. A best result image using the Gaussian kernel results with C = 0.25, Gaussian width 1000, and RFE band selection showing the location of these false detections is provided in Figure 7. The accuracy for this case was an F-measure of 0.83, 0 sulfur-free FPOS, and 50 Likely FPOS per image. The top of the figure shows the original image \(visible wavelengths only\The middle panel shows the location of the original labeled data where cyan is ice, yellow is rock, viol et is sulfur on ice, and green is sulfur on rock. The last panel shows white for all labeled locations after filtration based on PWEM\222s confidence estimation and red for \223bright sulfur\224 false detections that were reported as Likely FPOS. We immediately observe a correlation between small icy valleys, glacier edges, and false detections. Thus, the filter has indeed learned to recognize terrain similar to where sulfur occurs but still has trouble detecting the \(very faint\ yellow tint to the sulfurbearing region  This points out a weakness in this multiclass SVM application, namely that if a user provides examples of clean, unambiguous areas \(such as our ice and rock labels but then specifies a minority class within ambiguous background detail \(such as sulfur only existing in ice-rock mixture pixels\a y accurately \(according to the training data\n to predict that mixes of ice and rock are good determinants of sulfur presence. Thus, we have constructed both a sulfur-detector and a rock-ice mixture detector at the same time 7  C ONCLUSIONS  Overcoming the practical challenges of autonomous detection oftentimes exceeds in difficulty the mathematical treatment or data interpretation itself. In our case, we faced erroneously labeled examples, a bimodal population within our labeled sulfur examples, a single geographic sulfur region for training, a limitation of only 12 out of 220 bands to examine, and restricti on to a linear kernel. Even extending to the Gaussian ke rnel, we found our ability to remove false detections in highly similar \(nearby\ to that which housed the sulfur example was lacking, resulting in at best ~50 false detections throughout a single mean 


  11 image measuring ~ 256 x 3200 corresponding to 0.006 false alarm rate. This is significantly superior to the figure cited by Castano of 0.2% based only on 2006 data. While these may seem like small numbers, we are attempting to detect small events isolated in frequency and region size Thus false positives are very co stly should such a detector be utilized to schedule additional satellite observation runs or downlink data  However, in the development and evaluation of this classifier we did determine that while three classes of terrain was a good fit to the data \(ice, rock, and sulfur\o eliminate the majority of false positives especially on data far from the source images we were fo rced to carefully prune our input labels using filtration base on the PWEM estimation method. We also recognized that of the bimodal sulfur population, the \223dark sulfur\224 class \(sulfur occurring on rock\e majority of the false positive source. By discarding the dark class as unreliable, we obtained significant improvement in our false positive rate overall but especially in distant imag ery where less than one event in a mean 256 x 3200 image is expected. All of this was done while preserving a representative F-measure of ~ 0.9 with regard to the filtered labels  Of feature selection methods, we demonstrated that Recursive Feature Elimination RFE\ains an excellent tool to pare down uninformative, corrupted, or noisy satellite wavelengths when constructing such a detector empirically better than a greedy forward method. We also showed that the addition of substantially more data than past work yielded a much more successful classifier \(using bands selected by RFE vs. RFE 2006 only positive labeled examples remains the most significant source of error. In particular, labeled sulfur sources that do not all geographically collocate would greatly enhance our generality and help to reduce false positives  The use of a Gaussian kernel did demonstrate a higher FMeasure than was possible w ith the linear kernel with strong reduction of the FPOS. This indicates that when it becomes possible to operate a Gaussian kernel aboard a spacecraft such as EO-1, it shoul d be pursued. However, the CPU time cost for such algorithms must always be weighed against their improvement in performance. We are currently investigating an implementa tion for the EO-1 spacecraft  A variety of options for further work on this front exist in the absence of new positive labels. One possibility would be to provide yet another class for \223rock/ice mixture\224 separate from the sulfur positive examples to assist the classifier in avoiding nearby false positives. This would require further example labels from the domain expert that may or may not always be available. We treated our problem as though this was not an option  A second line of attack would include nonlinearity in into the model by computing functions of the input channels differences, averages, ratios etc. of various wavelength bands\This may enhance the contrast of the sulfur signature or eliminate confounding input such as ice/rock mixture information  Third, we may examine the SVM raw output directly for each classification. If the output for the \223best fit\224 class is itself still negative, we might conclude that there is no sufficiently explanatory cla ss and disregard the SVM\222s classification. This could potentially reduce false positives dramatically 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Special thanks to the JPL Supercomputing and Visualization Facility for their support  Expert label generation and analysis was carried out by Damhnait Gleeson under the NASA Planetary Geology and Geophysics Program grant NNX07AR28G to RTP  


  12 R EFERENCES  1 R. M. Go ld stein et al, \223Satellite Rad a r In terfero m e try fo r Monitoring Ice Sheet Motion: Application to an Antarctic Ice Stream\224, Science, Vol. 262, No. 5139, pp. 1525-1530 doi: 10.1126/science.262.5139.1525, December 1993   C J. Tucker et al 223Expansi on and C ont ract i on of t h e Sahara Desert from 1980 to 1990\224, Science, Vol. 253, No 5017, pp. 299-300, dio: 10.1126/science.253.5017.299 July 1991   A. R a ngo et al 223Average Areal W a t e r Equi val e nt  of Snow in a Mountain Basin Using Microwave and Visible Satellite Data\224, IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol. 27, Issue 6, pp. 740-745, doi: 10.1109/36.35962 Nov 1989   Kar-M i ng C h eung et al 223C hangi ng t h e C odi ng Sy st em  on a Spacecraft in Flight\224, Info rmation Theory Proceedings ISBN: 0-7803-0878-6, Jan 1993  R.C. Hastrup et al, \223Mars Network for Enabling LowCost Missions,\224 Acta Astronautica, vol 52 \(2-6 235, doi:10.1016/S0094-5765\(02   S G Ungar et  al 223Overvi e w of t h e Eart h Observi ng One EO-1\actions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 41, No. 6, doi 10.1109/TGRS.2003.815999, June 2003   S. C h i e n et al 223Aut onom ous Sci e nce on t h e EO-1 Mission,\224 International Symposium on Artificial Intelligence Robotics and Automation in Space \(iSAIRAS http://hdl.handle.net/2014/7155 May 2003   A. G. Davi es et al 223Aut onom ous Vol cani c Act i v i t y  Detection with ASE on EO-1 Hyperion: Applications for Planetary Missions,\224 Bulle tin of the American Astronomical Society, vol. 35, May 2003   R C a st a\361o, \223C urrent R e su lts from a Rover Science Data Analysis System,\224 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings, doi 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559328, Dec 27 th 2004   R C a st a\361o, \223Onboard Det ect i on of Act i v e C a nadi an Sulfur Springs: A Europa Analogue,\224 International Symposium on Artificial Intelligence Robotics and Automation in Space \(i-SAIRAS 29 th 2008  S. E. Grasby et al, \223S upraglacial Sulfur Springs and Associated Biological Activ ity in the Canadian High Arctic \226 Signs of Life Beneath the Ice,\224 Astrobiology 3\(3\ 583-596, doi: 10.1016/S0375-6742\(03 1 st 2003   S. E. Grasby et al 223B i ogeochem i cal Sul phur C y cl e i n an Extreme Environment \226 Life Beneath a High Arctic Glacier,\224 Journal of Geochemical Exploration, vol. 78-79 pp. 71-74, doi: 10.1016/S0375-6742\(03\ay 2003   R W C a rl son et al 223Sul furi c Aci d on Europa and t h e Radiolytic Sulfur Cycle\224, Science, Vol. 1, No. 5437, pp 97-99, doi: 10.1126/science.286.5437.97, Oct 1999   C Sot i n et al 223Europa Ti dal Heat i ng of Upwel l i ng Thermal Plumes and the Origin of Lenticulae and Chaos Melting,\224 Geophysical Research Letters, vol. 29, No. 8 doi 10.1029/2001GL013844 2002  J. S. Pearlm an et al, \223Hyperion, a Space-Based Im aging Spectrometer,\224 IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 41, No. 6, doi 10.1109/TGRS.2003.815018, Jun 2003  D. Mazzoni, \223PixelLearn,\224 NASA Tech Briefs Software, NPO-42082, Oct 31, 2006   Hy peri on Dat a Product s si t e  http://eo1.usgs.gov/userGuid e/index.php?page=hyp_prod   Vapni k St at i s t i cal  Learni ng Theory, Wiley-Interscience ISBN-10: 0471030031, Sept 16 th 1998   C h i h W ei Hsu, C h i h Jen Li n, \223A C o m p ari s on of Methods for Multiclass Support Vector Machines,\224 IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol. 13, Issue 2, pp 415-425, doi: 10.1109/72.991427, Mar 2002   U R e bbapragada et al 223Im p rovi ng Onboard Anal y s i s of Hyperion Images by Filtering Mislabeled Training Data Examples,\224 2008 IEEE Aerospace Applications, February 5-12 th 2009   U. R e bbapragada and C E. B r odl ey 223C l a ss Noi s e Mitigation Through Instance We ighting,\224 Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Machine Learning: ECML 2007 Vol. 4701/2007, doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-74958-5_71 Sept. 8 th 2007   ASTER Spect ral Li brary   JPL C a l T ech Pasadena California. Copyright 1999, California Institute of Technology. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED   H. St ei nhaus, \223Sur l a Di vi si on Des C o rp M a t e ri el s en Parties\224, Sci., C1. III, vol 4, pp. 801-804, 1956   V J. Van R i jsbergen, Inform at i on R e t ri e val   Butterworth-Heinemann, Newton, MA, 1979  


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Lukas Mandrake is a member of the technical staff in the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA. He is involved in the application of machine learning techniques to Earth-sensing satellite missions autonomous spectroscopy, and autonomous sensor networks and is a key member of the VCAM development / data analysis team. Lukas particularly enjoys studying computational models of natural systems Lukas received his Ph.D. and M.S. in computational plasma physics from UCLA in 2004 and his B.A. in engineering physics from the University of Arizona in 1995 Dr. Kiri Wagstaff is a senior researcher at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA.  She is a member of the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group, and her focus is on developing new machine learning methods that can be used for data analysis onboard spacecraft.  She has applied these techniques to data being collected by the EO-1 Earth-orbiting spacecraft Mars Odyssey, and Mars Pathfinder.  She has also worked on crop yield prediction from orbital remote sensing observations, the fault protection system for the MESSENGER mission to Mercury, and automatic code generation for the Electra radios used by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and the Mars Science Laboratory She holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Cornell University and an M.S. in Geological Sciences from the University of Southern California Damhnait Gleeson is a Ph.D candidate in the Department of Geological Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder currently carrying out research at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research explores the potential for life in icy, sulfur-rich environments such as may exist at Jupiter's moon Europa, and investigates the detectability of such life by the study of analogous terrestrial field sites. She is co-advised by Alexis Templeton at the University of Colorado and Bob Pappalardo at the Jet Propulsion Lab  Umaa Rebbapragada is a Ph.D candidate in the Department of Computer Science at Tufts University.  She graduated from the University of California Berkeley with a B. A. in Mathematics, and has six years of industry experience as a web developer and software engineer for the Internet media company CNET Networks.  At Tufts Umaa\222s field of research is machine learning, with specific focus on supervised learning, anomaly detection, and time series data mining methods.   Umaa\222s advisor is Professor Carla Brodley.  She also collaborates with astrophysicists at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, and has completed a summer internship at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr. Rebecca Casta\361o is an Assistant Manager of the Instruments Software and Science Data Systems section at JPL. She received her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois with her dissertation in the area of computer vision. Dr Casta\361o has been advancing the state of the art in onboard science methods for the past five years and has been lead author on numerous publications in this field. From 1999 \226 2001 Dr Casta\361o served as the application lead for phenomenological computational field geology efforts in the MLS Group. She is the technology lead for science data processing for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment on the New Millennium Program\222s ST6 project. Dr. Casta\361o is also the Team Lead of the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System \(OASIS\ project and the subtask lead for Data Analysis on the automated Multirover Integrated Science Understanding System \(MISUS\. Her research interests include machine learning, computer vision, and pattern recognition  


  14  Daniel Tran is a member of the technical staff in the Artificial Intelligence Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, where he is working on developing automated planning and scheduling systems for onboard spacecraft commanding. Daniel attended the University of Washington and received a B.S. in Computer Engineering. He is currently the software lead for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment, co-winner of the 2005 NASA Software of the Year award  Dr. Steve Chien is a Principal Computer Scientist in the Mission Planning and Executi on Section at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and Adjunct Associate Professor with the Department of Computer Science of the University of Southern California. He holds a B.S with Highest Honors in Computer Science, with minors in Mathematics and Economics, M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science, all from the University of Illinois. Dr Chien is a recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award for Excellence and two NASA Exceptional Achievement Medals for his work in research and development of planning and scheduling systems for NASA. He is the Principal Investigator for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment, a co-winner of the 2005 NASA Software of the Year Award  Dr. Robert T. Pappalardo is a Senior Research Scientist in the Planetary Ices Group of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California. His research focuses on processes that have shaped the icy satellites of the outer solar system, especially Europa and the role of its probable subsurface ocean as well as the nature, origin, and evolution of bright grooved terrain on Jupiter's moon Ganymede. He received his Ph.D in Geology from Arizona State University and his B.A. in Geological Sciences from Cornell University 


  15  


Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 71-106 56] H. C. Lucas, "Methodological issues in information systems survey research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 273-285 57] EIU, "The 2001 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2001 58] V. Jupp, The Sage Dictionary of Social Research Methods. London: Sage Publications, 2006 59] EIU, "The 2007 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2007 60] S. V. Evera, Guide to Methods for Students of Political Science. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 1997   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


