html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Estimation of VDL Mode 2 with Hidden Transmitters Steven Bretmersky Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Cleveland State University 2121 Euclid Avenue Cleveland, OH 44115 216-433-6544 steven.c.bretmersky@nasa.gov  Rafael Apaza Aviation Research Office Federal Aviation Administration Airway Facilities BLD 801, Room 117 Romulus, MI 48242 734-955-5190 Rafael.Apaza@faa.gov   Abstract  The VDL Mode 2 aeronautical data link uses a ppersistent Carrier Sense Multiple Access \(CSMA access protocol that, like all CSMA systems, is susceptible to the hidden transmitter condition. Simulations have shown that the impact of hidden transmitters in the aeronautical environment can be significant. In this paper, a method of estimating channel performance with hidden transmitters is derived on a radio by radio basis. This method proves to be faster than the VDL Mode 2 simulations, allowing scenarios to be evaluated quickly. The process is applied to a large dynamic data set that demonstrates the usefulness of this approach.12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 2. BACKGROUND...................................................................1 3. METHODOLOGY ...............................................................2 4. SIMULATION AND TESTING ..............................................5 6. CONCLUSIONS ..................................................................9 APPENDIX A .......................................................................10 REFERENCES ......................................................................10 BIOGRAPHY ........................................................................10 1. INTRODUCTION The Federal Aviation Administration \(FAA the performance of VHF Digital Link \(VDL future aeronautical data communications link in the United States. NASA Glenn Research Center, in cooperation with the FAA, has performed a large number of simulations to explore the performance of VDL Mode 2 utilizing future traffic loads developed in the Communications Operational Concepts and Requirements \(COCR  data from these simulations are used as an input to the FAA  s spectrum requirements assessment study, which is tasked with determining the amount of spectrum required for VDL Mode 2 deployment in the National Airspace System \(NAS The VDL capacity simulations have identified that hidden transmitters have a serious impact on the amount of traffic that can occupy a channel while meeting stringent delay requirements. It is evident from these simulations that an aircraft  s location, in particular its altitude, plays a large role 1 1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1095,Version 6, Updated January 9, 2008 in the number of hidden transmitters present and overall performance. For this reason it is important to evaluate system performance utilizing multiple aircraft locations and altitudes In the past, simulations using fixed aircraft positions have been used for determining steady state performance. Due to the complex nature of the VDL protocol architecture evaluating steady state performance requires a large number of measurement samples. As a result, the amount of time 


of measurement samples. As a result, the amount of time required to perform a simulation can be significant. For evaluating a large number of scenarios, an alternative means of estimating performance becomes necessary Analytical methods have widely been used for evaluating CSMA systems. Some of these methods investigate performance with hidden transmitters; however the math quickly becomes cumbersome as the number of hidden transmitters increases. It is desirable to have a simpler method to estimate the performance, even if it sacrifices some accuracy. This paper examines such a method that produces reasonable estimates that are useful for capacity studies. The estimation process is derived from simple observations based on the simulated performance. The process is tested against results from the fixed position simulations to determine its accuracy. The process is then applied towards a large dynamic data set that would not be feasible to simulate in its entirety. The merits and pitfalls of this approach are discussed in conclusion 2. BACKGROUND The VDL Mode 2 Medium Access Control \(MAC belongs to the CSMA family of protocols. All CSMA protocols perform carrier sensing prior to transmission. In the simple listen-before-talk mechanism, the channel state is first determined by  listening  to the channel. If a signal is determined to be present on the channel, the channel is  busy  and the radio will not transmit in order to avoid a collision. The radio will then attempt to access the channel once the channel becomes  idle   The action the radio takes when the channel is sensed idle is based upon the variant of CSMA used. VDL Mode 2 specifically uses p-persistent CSMA. If the channel is sensed idle, the radio will transmit \(persist 2 p, or with probability 1 - p the radio will back off. If the radio backs off, it will wait for a short period of time and sense the channel again. If it is still idle the radio will make another attempt to access the channel with probability p or backoff again. The process is repeated until the access attempt is successful and the message is transmitted One downfall of a CSMA protocol is its susceptibility to the hidden transmitter condition. This condition occurs when a group of radios cannot all hear each other, either due to blockage by line-of-sight or by low received power levels due to path loss. Two radios that do not hear each other are said to be hidden from one another. These radios may have overlapping transmissions since neither is able to sense the other  s transmission. When a third radio hears two or more of these hidden radios, the overlapping transmissions result in a collision. The resulting retransmissions ultimately reduce system performance by creating higher subnetwork delays and increasing the channel load In the aeronautical environment, hidden transmitter cases can be severe. With relatively small antenna heights, ground stations will generally not hear each other. Aircraft at altitude, however, are likely to hear multiple ground stations. This dichotomy results in the hidden transmitter condition. Since the ground stations are responsible for roughly half of all transmissions with the current loading models, the impact of these hidden transmitters can be significant It is apparent that the altitude and location of the aircraft and ground transmitters play a vital role in determining the presence of hidden transmitters, and thus channel performance and capacity. To properly assess the system capacity, a large number of representative samples of aircraft and ground station locations must be used in the analysis. Performing a simulation study of this magnitude is not feasible Previous Work CSMA systems have been intensely studied in the past in 


CSMA systems have been intensely studied in the past in both the wired and wireless domains, with much work focusing on specific protocol implementations such as 802.11. Kleinrock and Tobagi have analytically described the performance of several CSMA protocols including the p-persistent variant in [2]. The protocol performance was described in terms of the offered load, throughput, and probability of success. Hung has applied this analysis to VDL Mode 2 in [3], finding that the analysis reasonably agreed with the peak throughput obtained through simulation but greatly disagreed on the offered load at which this peak occurs. This observation is reiterated in [4 and in this current work. We believe that a simplifying assumption used in [2] is the culprit: when a channel is found busy after a back off period it is treated as a collision Although the traffic was offered for transmission, in this case it was never actually transmitted. Thus the definition of the offered load provided by Kleinrock and Tobagi does not match our own Tobagi and Kleinrock extended their analysis to the hidden transmitter case in [5] for the 1-persistent and nonpersistent CSMA variants only. This analysis introduced the concept of the  hearing graph  of a network and determined the upper and lower bounds of performance for several visibility configurations. The hidden transmitter problem has more recently been researched in numerous papers with applications for 802.11 and ad-hoc wireless networks Tsertou and Laurenson identified in [6] that the zero-length acknowledgement assumption used in multiple studies including [5], was not realistic. They continued to identify deficiencies in other analytical approaches to hidden transmitter topologies and defined a more accurate model for CSMA/CA schemes such as 802.11. However, the limitation of this approach lies in its complexity; the authors acknowledge that extending the approach beyond the two hidden transmitter scenario described in their paper is not trivial 3. METHODOLOGY Ultimately, the capacity of a VDL Mode 2 channel is determined by the 95th percentile subnetwork delay. Based on the COCR, the delay requirements allocated to the air/ground subnetwork have been defined for three segments of application deployment. These limits are 3.8 2.4, and 1.4 seconds for segment 1, 2, and 3 respectively The safety-critical nature of the ATS messages dictates that these delay requirement must be met at all times for all aircraft One can expect the largest delays in a VDL Mode 2 subnetwork to be experienced by data frames that require retransmission. From this one may deduce that the 95th percentile delay must be larger than the minimum retransmission delay when the probability of a packet being successfully received on the first transmission falls below 0.95. Similarly, one can expect the 95th percentile delay to exceed two minimum retransmission delays when the probability of a packet being successfully received within the first two transmissions is less than 0.95. It can be shown that the overall probability of successful transmission values of 0.95 and 0.78 meet these criteria, respectively The VDL simulations support this view. The subnetwork delays and the amount of traffic sent and received were measured for the 7-ground station scenario \(described later in section 4 delays were calculated for each aircraft along with the probability of success, Ps, for the uplink data frames. These values are plotted in Figure 1. The results show that a strong correlation exists between the probability of success and the 95th percentile subnetwork delay 3 With the default VDL Mode 2 parameters, the minimum retransmission delay is 2.2 seconds. In Figure 1, the 95th 


retransmission delay is 2.2 seconds. In Figure 1, the 95th percentile uplink delay exceeds 2.2 seconds at Ps &lt; 0.95 and 4.4 seconds at Ps &lt; 0.78 as expected. We note that the step in the delays at Ps = 0.78 is not as clean as at Ps = 0.95. This is due to the fact that the retransmission delay is not constant; it is a function of channel utilization and the current number of outstanding transmissions as well as containing a random element. As a result, it is possible for a frame with one retransmission to have a delay significantly higher than the minimum retransmission delay  Figure 1  Delay versus probability of success These results show that the probability of success can be used as a reasonable estimate for the 95th percentile delay and hence be used to determine when the requirements will be exceeded. For segment 1, Ps &lt; 0.78 is a reasonable approximation for the delay exceeding 3.8 seconds although we note that a few data points exceeded this limit at higher Ps values and a more conservative limit for Ps may be desirable. For both segments 2 and 3 the delay requirements are exceeded when Ps &lt; 0.95 Estimating the Probability of Success The estimation of Ps begins with the assumption that the traffic is Poisson distributed. For a Poisson process with rate ?, the probability that the time until an arrival is greater than some time ? can be expressed as  1 Stated another way, the probability of no arrival in time ? is e-??. In terms of the probability of success for a given frame this property can be used to determine the probability that another frame will be transmitted in its vulnerable period. It will be shown that the length of the vulnerable period is dependent upon whether another transmitter is visible or hidden; consequently, the effect of each possible interferer must be evaluated separately  Figure 2. Example Four-Radio Scenario Consider the simple case in Figure 2 where four radios are present. In this scenario radios 1 and 2 see all three other radios. An obstruction prevents radios 3 and 4 from seeing each other, therefore these two radios only see radios 1 and 2. We use this simple scenario to illustrate the vulnerable periods due to hidden and visible transmitters  Figure 3. The beginning \(a b vulnerable period We consider the hidden transmitter case first. If radio 3 sends a frame of length ls to radio 1 at time t0, we can determine the probability that it will be interfered with by a transmission from radio 4. Assuming the interfering message has length li, we can see that the vulnerable period starts at t0 - li, where the end of the interfering frame collides with the beginning of the desired frame. The vulnerable period ends at time t0 + ls, where the beginning of the interfering frame collides with the end of the intended frame. The overall vulnerable period is then li + ls. This is demonstrated in Figure 3. When accounting for the propagation delays in this process, the transmission times necessary to cause the messages to overlap can shift However, the overall length of the vulnerable period remains the same  Figure 4. The beginning \(a b vulnerable period A similar approach is used for the visible transmitter case illustrated in Figure 4. In this case, a radio will not transmit if it senses another radio  s transmission. Ignoring delays associated with channel sensing in the hardware, the vulnerable period is based only upon the propagation delay between the two transmitting radios. Assuming radio 3 t0 t0 - d 


t0 t0 - d t0 t0 + d a b t0 + ls t0 t0 + ls t0 - li t0 t0 + ls a b 4 sends a frame to radio 1 at time t0, the earliest that radio 2 could also transmit and cause a collision is t0 - d, where d is the propagation delay between radio 2 and radio 3. If radio 2 transmits before this time, radio 1 would have sensed the channel busy and delayed the transmission. Similarly, the latest that radio 2 could transmit and cause a collision is t0 d. If radio 2 does not transmit by this time, it will sense the channel busy and delay transmission It has been shown that the probability of success is dependent upon whether or not two transmitting radios can hear each other, indicating the need to know the visibility between all radio pairs. For a system with N radios, we define an N  N hearing matrix H \(equivalent to the M matrix in [5 is defined as    otherwise,0 hears  if,1 ji h ji Similarly, we define an N  N matrix D, where the element di j is the propagation delay between radios i and j In this analysis we break the assumption that messages are the same size \(or at least that the variations in message lengths have minimal impacts on the system different message sizes, we define a M  1 matrix L where the element li is the length \(in seconds We can now generalize the vulnerable period from source radio s to the target radio t in the presence of an interfering radio i as follows, where ?s,i is the Kronecker delta and n and m are the message indices for the transmitted source and interferer messages respectively      nmisisisv h llhdhnmitsT 1 12   2 Following from the above analysis, the first part of this formula evaluates to two propagation delays when radio s can hear radio i; otherwise it is the sum of the transmitted message lengths from radios s and i. The rest of the equation is designed to handle special conditions that cause the vulnerable period to become 0. The first is if the target radio t cannot see the interfering radio i; it then follows that i cannot interfere with the transmission to t. The second condition occurs when i = s, by definition a radio cannot interfere with itself and the vulnerable period is 0 The rate component of equation \(1 messages per second. In the simple case where only three radios exist \(the source, the target, and the interferer rate is equal to the transmission rate of the interfering radio However, we realize that the complete system includes other radios that may occupy the channel. If both the source and interfering radio see the channel occupied, they will be blocked from transmitting. The source and interfering radios 


thus only compete during the free portion of the channel We estimate this common blocking period B as     N p totalmpips M m mprlhhisB 1 1  where rtotal is the total transmit rate of message m from radio p. Note that B is dimensionless, as the transmission rate rtotal is measured in messages per second and the length lm is measured in seconds per message. It represents the proportion of time that the channel is blocked. The problem with this estimate is it assumes that the transmissions occur sequentially. In reality, some of the other radios may have concurrent transmissions which result in collisions. As such B overestimates the amount of time the channel is busy. We believe that this time is mostly negligible and increases the safety margin of the results The rate of the transmission can then be scaled to represent the rate of transmission by the interferer during the periods when both the source and interfering radios sense the channel idle. The effective transmission rate of the interferer for message m is    mirmisr totaleff ,1   3 Substituting \(2 3 1 the probability of success for message n from source s to target t in the presence of the interfering radio i  s message m. The overall probability of success for message n is found by taking the product of the individual successes for all interferers and messages     st N i M m veffS h nmitsTmisrntsP   1 1 exp We included the visibility of the source to the target as a factor in the probability, since if the target cannot hear the source its probability of successfully receiving a transmission \(regardless of interferers This approach does not account for the possibility that multiple radios queue uplinks during blocked periods and consequently experience an increased likelihood of collision when the channel becomes idle. This condition would be most prominent with a 1-persistent system. However, for ppersistent systems with small values of p, we believe these equations produce reasonable estimates for Ps 5 Estimating the Rate of Transmission The next step in our estimation process is to estimate the rate of transmission for each radio, rtotal. This estimate is tailored to VDL Mode 2 and includes the desired traffic plus retransmissions and acknowledgements. We assume that the rate of traffic generation for every message from 


that the rate of traffic generation for every message from each source to target is known. These values are contained in an N  N  M matrix R, where the ri j k is the base transmission rate for message k from radio i to radio j. We also assume that all generated traffic is transmitted, i.e. rtotal s,m loaded channels, but since that failure occurs well outside the useful operating range of the system it is ignored To account for the acknowledgements, we add a new message to message matrix L at index A where A = M + 1 Since the transmission rate for acknowledgements is not fixed \(one is generated for each message received transmission rate for this message will not be used and is set to 0 for simplicity i.e. ri j A = 0 for all i, j For the data messages m = 1  M, the overall transmission rate is the base rate plus retransmissions. A retransmission will occur if the data message is not successful or its acknowledgment is not successful in the return path. The overall transmission rate rtx is then the base rate scaled by the inverse of the probabilities of success     We note that rtx is undefined in cases where Ps is 0 Acknowledgment messages are generated for each received message in the reverse path. Although VDL Mode 2 allows these acknowledgements to be implicitly placed into data messages in the reverse path, simulations have shown that the majority of the time these acknowledgements are explicitly sent as discrete messages. Therefore this analysis makes the simplifying assumption that each of these acknowledgements is transmitted as a discrete message which may be expressed as    M n txtx 1    Finally, we can calculate the total transmit rate for each message m from source s     N t txtotal mtsrmsr 1  Estimating a VDL Mode 2 system One of the problems with the equations developed is that the probability of success is a function of transmission rates while the transmission rate is a function of the probability of success. A straight-forward approach to solving for these simultaneously becomes difficult, as the size of the H, L and R matrices become large as the number of radios and messages increase. We propose that an iterative method is sufficient for estimating both parameters, where the values for Ps and rtotal converge to reasonable approximations in successive iterations The process begins by first assuming that Ps = 1 for all radio pairs and messages. Next, the transmission rate rtotal is estimated for every radio pair and message, with the acknowledgment traffic rate being the last values calculated This is followed by the estimation for Ps. Computational time can be reduced by only evaluating the necessary values of Ps \(i.e. evaluate Ps\(s,t,m transmission rate for the iteration is saved and then rtotal and Ps are re-evaluated. The process continues until the change in the total transmission rate between successive iterations falls below a user-specified threshold. The process is 


falls below a user-specified threshold. The process is summarized below  4. SIMULATION AND TESTING The simulations performed for this analysis use custom VDL Mode 2 models with OPNET Modeler version 14.5.A All simulations were performed on a Linux platform. The VDL models are based on the VDL Mode 2 MASPS [7] and include detailed MAC and datalink protocols. The higher layers in the OSI model are abstracted by using a data source and sink directly above the VDL sublayer. The data source generates per-aircraft traffic according to the profile model represented in Table 1 The simulations are testing for steady state performance of a VDL Mode 2 subnetwork, and as such the static scenarios use fixed aircraft locations throughout the simulation. The number of aircraft operating in a simulation is fixed as well Multiple simulations are performed with varying number of aircraft to generate a mix of offered loads SET Ps\(s,t,m SET MAX_TOTAL_DIFF  REPEAT SET Total to 0 FOR each radio s, message m Estimate rtotal\(s,m ADD rtotal\(s,m ENDFOR FOR each radio pair s and t, message m Estimate Ps\(s,t,m ENDFOR SET Total_Change to Total  Last_Total SET Last_Total to Total UNTIL Total_Change &lt; MAX_TOTAL_DIFF 6 Table 1. Simulated traffic profile Uplink Downlink Priority Mean Rate Mean Size Mean Rate Mean Size Network 0.00389 794 0.00241 659 High 0.00750 1013 0.00750 889 Medium 0.00065 2462 0.00047 728 Low 0.00517 3002 0.01315 1105  The positions of the radios in the simulation are used to generate the hearing matrix H for the estimate process. In this paper the ability of one radio to hear another, in both the simulation and the estimate, is based solely on line of sight. In this initial work, the transmit power and path loss are not considered when determining the hearing matrix The message transmission rate R and length L matrices are created using the data in Table 2. The uplink and downlink parameters are aggregated from the simulation traffic profile, but also include the overhead of 13 bytes for the AVLC header, 6 bytes for Reed-Solomon encoding, and 11 bytes for the MAC layer training sequence. The size of the VDL acknowledgement is also specified; however it  s mean rate is not since it is calculated as described in the previous section Table 2. Message Profile for Estimate Mean Rate Mean Size Uplink Data 0.01721 1856 Downlink Data 0.02352 1224 Acknowledgment N/A 216  Uniform visibility scenarios Classical analytical methods for evaluating system 


Classical analytical methods for evaluating system performance of the CSMA family of protocols have generally considered the system as a whole. Many analyses relate the total system throughput S to the total offered load G, with the overall probability of success Ps = S / G, with S and G normalized to the message transmission time In the first test we follow this approach and examine the overall load and throughput. To simplify the analysis, we will assume that all radios have identical conditions such that matrices H, D, L, and R can be replaced with constants This leads to two extremes: one where all interfering transmitters are visible to the sources, and the other where all interfering transmitters are hidden from the sources Derived in Appendix A, it can be shown that for the fully visible case      G aGGS 1 2exp           \(4 while for the fully hidden case  5 To test these estimates against simulations, a scenario was created with a single ground station surrounded by up to 250 aircraft. All aircraft were randomly placed within 120 NM of the ground station at an altitude of 30,000 feet. The load G is varied by changing the number of aircraft in the simulation. Five independent runs were performed for each number of aircraft using a different seed value for the random number generator. The values used for analysis are the averages from the five runs For the fully visible case, simulations were performed with numbers ranging from 10 to 250 aircraft. The simulation results are shown by the markers in Figure 5, while the lines represent the estimate from \(4 and 1. With an experimentally determined value of a = 0.04 the estimate is a good approximation to the simulation performance. This value of a corresponds to a mean frame size of 860 bits \(measured from the simulations propagation distance of 177 NM  Figure 5. Throughput and probability of success for a fully visible network For the fully hidden case, the same simulations were performed with numbers ranging from 10 to 80 aircraft. To model the fully hidden case, the channel sensing function of the VDL process was disabled. This effectively caused each radio to always perceive the channel as idle. The simulation results for the fully hidden case are shown in Figure 6 and compared to the estimate from \(5 5 formula for classic ALOHA [2]. The results exhibit good agreement with the estimate. The scarcity of data points for values of G above 0.4 is due to the fact that adding even a single aircraft to the scenario had a large impact on the offered load due to increased retransmissions 7  Figure 6. Throughput and probability of success for a fully hidden network Mixed-Visibility Static Scenario The uniform visibility scenarios demonstrated that the estimate provides a reasonable approximation for the overall S and Ps when radio conditions are identical However, we are more interested in the case where the subnetwork conditions differ on a radio by radio basis. This is tested via a scenario with seven ground stations laid out as shown in Figure 7. Each ground station serves a set 


as shown in Figure 7. Each ground station serves a set number of aircraft. The aircraft are all within 120 NM of their ground station at altitudes varying from 16,000 to 48,000 feet  Figure 7. Mixed visibility static scenario layout  Four separate sets of aircraft locations and altitudes were used with numbers ranging from 1 to 25 aircraft per ground station. This yielded 100 separate simulations runs for this analysis Three separate tests were performed for the estimate process. The first test uses the rtx values from the simulation as input and examines the effectiveness of the Ps estimate The second test uses the Ps values measured from the simulation to examine the rtx estimate. The last test uses the complete process to iteratively estimate both Ps and rtx. All tests used the aircraft and ground station locations from the simulations as input to the estimation process along with the message profile in Table 2  Figure 8. Uplink Ps and rtx errors for the estimated a only, b The results for estimating Ps-only are shown in Figure 8a The mean error for Ps was calculated from every aircraft and compared to the value of Ps obtained through simulation. The Ps error is reported as the simulation value subtracted from the estimated value. The vertical bars on the mean errors represent the 99.9% confidence interval for the mean values. The estimate produces near-zero errors for Ps values in the range of 0.9 to 1, however for lower Ps values the process increasingly over-estimates its value. The estimate is still reasonable for our interested value of Ps 0.78 8 For the rtx-only estimate, the percent error is reported as the difference between the estimated and simulated values divided by the simulated value, shown in Figure 8b. The vertical bars on the mean errors represent the 99.9 confidence interval for the mean values. In all cases tested the process over-estimates the value of rtx. The error slowly increased as Ps values decreased until about Ps=0.7, where the error suddenly began decreasing, leveling off at Ps=0.6 At this time the reason for this pattern is unknown The results for the iterative Ps and rtx estimates are shown in Figure 8c for the data and acknowledgement messages. As the simulated Ps decreases, the process overestimates Ps while underestimating rtx. The relationship between the two produces greater Ps errors as compared to the Ps-only estimate. However, the values are still reasonable as an estimate over our desired range. Further research should be able to resolve some of the differences between the simulated and estimated results The downlink results are not presented here for brevity These same trends were seen in the downlink messages although the lack of hidden transmitters in the downlink direction condensed the range of Ps values to 0.96  1.0 The Ps errors observed in the tests exhibited a normal distribution about the mean. Analysis confirmed that approximately 99.7% of the Ps errors are within three standard deviations of the mean. The estimated Ps is compared to the simulated Ps as shown in Figure 9 with the horizontal bars representing 3 standard deviations from the mean \(accounting for the 99.9% confidence interval of the mean 0.78. We can see that estimated Ps values of 0.83 and above correspond to simulated values greater than 0.78 while estimated Ps values below 0.76 indicate that the simulated values will be below 0.78. Estimated Ps values between 0.76 and 0.83 are indeterminate  Figure 9. Comparison of estimated Ps to simulated Ps 


Figure 9. Comparison of estimated Ps to simulated Ps The results show that the estimate can provide a reasonable although inexact, approximation to the simulation. The major benefit of the estimate is its speed. Whereas the VDL simulations took over 2 full days to perform the simulations on a single computer, the same machine was able to estimate the results for all 100 scenarios in less than 3 minutes total. These simulations represent just 100 samples of the infinitely-many combinations of aircraft and ground station locations. The speed of the analytical estimate makes it possible to investigate many more deployment scenarios than would be possible by simulation alone Mixed-Visibility Dynamic Scenario To demonstrate the utility of the estimate, we tested the process for a large dynamic scenario using flight track information for an entire day from 2005. The flight track data included all aircraft within 7 of the 21Air Route Traffic Control Centers \(ARTCCs portion of the United States. VDL ground stations were assumed to exist at 66 FAA locations within these centers Aircraft were assumed to connect to the nearest ground station The flight data was processed in one minute increments Each instance of time was treated as an entirely new set of inputs to the estimate process. Under this approach, there is no memory from one instance to the next Not all aircraft in the data set are used in the analysis. Since we are assuming an en route traffic profile, only aircraft above 16,000 feet and within 200 NM of one of the ground stations are eligible for equipage. Over the course of the day, 22,654 aircraft met the requirements. To account for the fact that not all aircraft will equip with VDL Mode 2 and those that do will likely be distributed over several independent frequencies, only a portion of the eligible aircraft are considered. Aircraft are randomly chosen to be equipped, with all aircraft equally likely to be chosen. In this scenario we tested overall equipage rates between 1 and 10 percent in one percent increments Figure 10. Ps values versus the equipage rate The Ps values were estimated for the entire day for each equipage rate. Figure 10 shows the ranges of Ps ranges where the shades of green represent Ps values of 0.83 or better, yellow represents values between 0.8 and 0.83 9 orange from 0.76 to 0.8, and shades of red below 0.76. The yellow and orange regions fall in the indeterminate region with yellow representing regions where the mean error tends to be above the limit and orange for regions where the mean error is below the limit. The results show that a single channel should support a 5 percent equipage rate, while a 7 percent equipage rate would not meet requirements for all aircraft at all times. With an equipage rates of 6 percent, the estimate produced some Ps values that fall within the indeterminate range Even though the estimate for an equipage rate of 6 percent does not conclusively determine whether or not the channel can support that load, it provides useful information that may be used for further analysis. For example, the plot of the Ps value against time, shown in Figure 11, identifies specific times at which indeterminate estimates of Ps exist These times usually coincide with a peak in the total equipped aircraft. The number and location of aircraft at these peak times can be used to construct simulations to better understand channel performance at these times Additionally, the estimate can identify the aircraft that need to be examined in more detail, reducing the amount of analysis that needs to be performed Figure 11. Ps values for 6 percent equipage rate Simulations created for the peaks at 12:03 PM, 2:04 PM and 5:23PM with a 6 percent equipage rate verified that the Ps values were above the 0.78 limit for Segment 1, and more importantly that the 95th percentile delays for the 


more importantly that the 95th percentile delays for the aircraft were all below the 3.8 second requirement. The mean errors and standard deviations were similar to those from the static scenario tests, verifying that the estimate is providing \(within limits simulations 6. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, an analytical means of estimating the performance of VDL Mode 2 in the presence of hidden transmitters was introduced. Comparison with results from simulation models show that, for the scenario tested, the estimate was able to provide a reasonable, although imperfect, approximation to the simulation over a limited loading range. The advantage of the estimate lies in the fact that results can be computed in several orders of magnitude less time The drawback of the estimate lies in its limitations. It cannot account for variances in the VDL MAC parameters, which were noted in [8] to impact the simulation results. It also cannot account for effects of higher layer protocols such as queuing and packet segmentation. It has also shown to be less accurate under highly loaded conditions, although this is considered to be a minor issue since this occurs outside the useful operating range of our studies The usefulness of the estimate was shown through its application to a dynamic scenario. The ten equipage-rate scenarios evaluated over an entire day \(in one minute increments to provide the same data. The speed at which the estimate is able to calculate the expected results makes it possible to explore more of these dynamic scenarios in a reasonably short period of time. Where are the optimal locations for the ground stations? What happens if certain types of aircraft are more likely to equip than others? What happens if certain airlines equip faster than others? What happens when considering the future projected air traffic growth Future studies will use this process to help answer these questions in order to provide the best possible understanding of the future VDL Mode 2 environment It is important to note that the estimate is not meant to be a complete replacement for the current simulation models when evaluating system performance of VDL Mode 2. It can provide a reasonable first-order estimate to narrow down scenarios that must be investigated further. As demonstrated in the previous section, the estimate was able to provide an approximate capacity, in terms of overall equipage, and identified a few specific times which required simulations for final verification Caution should be used when using this method in scenarios that diverge from the scenario presented. In cases where the traffic profile or VDL operating parameters differ significantly from those used here, the estimate may fail to be a useful model. Further testing of this model is necessary under these varying conditions to bound the limits of its usefulness Future additions are planned for the estimate to more closely reflect effects that are available to the simulation models. A simple power and path loss model will be added to better create the visibility matrix based on the expected received power. This may also be used to implement a basic capture effect, where a frame can still be received in the presence of a relatively weak interfering transmission Airborne co-site interference due to off-channel voice 10 transmissions and additional increases in the vulnerable period due to hardware sensing delays will also be included  APPENDIX A The analyses derived here consider all radios identical i.e having the same transmission rate, message size, view of the network, and even propagation delay to other radios Following this assumption, we can replace matrix D with a 


Following this assumption, we can replace matrix D with a constant propagation delay d and matrix L with constant message length l. We can assume that rtotal is a constant as well. As such, we can define G = N * rtotal * l, where G is defined in messages per unit time and N is the number of radios in the system. We assume a sufficiently large radio population  such that \(N - 1 For the case where all radios are visible to each other, the vulnerable period is two propagation delays. The total transmitted rate is N * rtotal. Since every radio sees every other radio, the channel is commonly blocked for N * rtotal l. To align the equation for a substitution to G, we multiply the entire exponent by the quantity l / l, resulting in         l ld lrN rNP total total s 2 1 exp We note that, in the classical analysis, the quantity d / l is denoted by a. Substituting G and a into the above equation for Ps, and using S = G * Ps, we arrive at the following      G aGGS 1 2exp We can similarly evaluate the case where all interferers are hidden. In this case, the vulnerable period is the length of two messages, or 2l. Since all other radios are hidden, the channel is never commonly blocked      lrNP totals 21 exp Substituting G into the above equation for Ps, and using the equation for S produces  which is the classic formula for the throughput of ALOHA systems [2 REFERENCES 1] Communications Operating Concepts and Requirements for the Future Radio System, Version 2.0 EUROCONTROL / FAA Document 2] Leonard Kleinrock and Fouad A. Tobagi  Packet Switching in Radio Channels: Part I - Carrier Sense Multiple-Access Modes and Their Throughput-Delay Characteristics  IEEE Transactions on Communications Vol. 23, No. 12, December 1975 3] Brian T. Hung  Modeling and Simulation of an Aeronautical CSMA Subnetwork  MITRE Technical Paper, February 2001 


Paper, February 2001 4] Steven C. Bretmersky, Robert W. Murawski, and Vijay K Konangi  Characteristics and Capacity of VDL Mode 2 3, and 4 Subnetworks  Journal of Aerospace Computing Information, and Communication, Vol. 2, November 2005 5] Fouad A. Tobagi and Leonard Kleinrock  Packet Switching in Radio Channels: Part II - The Hidden Terminal Problem in Carrier Sense Multiple-Access and the Busy-Tone Solution  IEEE Transactions on Communications, Vol. 23, No. 12, December 1975 6] Athanasia Tsertou and David I. Laurenson  Revisiting the Hidden Terminal Problem in a CSMA/CA Wireless Network  IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Vol 7, No. 7, July 2008 7] Signal-in-Space Minimum Aviation System Performance Standards for Advanced VHF Digital Data Communications Including Compatibility with Digital Voice Techniques, RTCA Standard DO-224B, August 2005 8] Rafael D. Apaza and Steven C. Bretmersky  Findings of VHF Data Link Mode 2 Analysis  14th Ka and Broadband Communications Conference Proceedings September 24-26, 2008 BIOGRAPHY Steven Bretmersky has been working as a research associate with Cleveland State University \(2002 - present cooperation with the NASA Glenn Research Center, he has supported research of aeronautical communications links with a focus on VDL. He is currently engaged in supporting FAA spectrum assessment studies through modeling and simulation. He  11 holds a BEE from Cleveland State University \(2000 MSEE from Cleveland State University \(2002 Rafael Apaza works for the Federal Aviation Administration specializing in Communications and Surveillance systems \(1987   present 1985 and MSEE \(1994 Wayne State University and a MCIS degree from The University of Michigan \(2001 working with the Federal Aviation Administration Aviation Research &amp; Technology Development Office at the NASA Glenn Research Center Field Office conducting Communications Navigation and Surveillance Research pre></body></html 


Senate  13] Office for Civil Rights. \(2002 Individually Identifiable Health Information; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 and 164  14] Office for Civil Rights. \(2006 Simplification [45 CFR Parts 160, 162 and 164  15] Rowe, Gene, George Wright \(1999 Technique as a forecasting tool: issues and analysis International Journal of Forecasting, 15  16] Westbrook, Lynn. ?Information Access Issues for Interdisciplinary Scholars: Results of a Delphi Study on Women?s Studies Research?, Journal of Academic Librarianship, 23:3, \(May 1997  17] Williams, S. \(2004 troops. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. October 4, 2004  18] Wolfowitz, P. \(2002 Privacy Protections for DoD Medical Records Memorandum to Committee on Armed Services. March 1 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


                                                      


                         L A                                        


          L A  Table 7. Table of Granules at left-hand-side is isomorphic to  at right- hand-side: By Theorem  3.1 one can ?nd patterns in either table as a single generalized concept  Internal points  are:[4]\(1, 1, 0, 0 tions; [5]\(0, 1, 1, 0  0, 1, 0, 1  0, 1, 1, 1  1, 1 1, 0  1, 1, 0, 1  1, 0, 1, 1 11]\(1, 1, 1, 1 form and simplify them into disjoint normal forms 1  T E N    S J    T E N    S J 2  T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A 3  T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   A 4  T W E N T Y            L A 5  T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N    T W E N T Y   A   S J    T W E N T Y   A      T H I R T Y    L A     Y 7  T E N      T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   L A    T E N   L A    S  J   A 8  T W E N T Y      T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N   T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y 9  T W E N T Y    N Y    T E N    S J    T H I R T Y    L A      T W E N T Y    L A  1 0  T W E N T Y    N Y    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A    J 1 1  T W E N T Y          T W E N T Y    L A   T H I R T Y    L A    a l l If the simpli?ed expression is a single clause \(in the original symbols non-generalized the following associations 1   T E N     S J    T E N    S J  2. SJ   J 4   L A    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y    6 Conclusions Data, patterns, method of derivations, and useful-ness are key ingredients in AM. In this paper, we formalize the current state of AM: Data are a table of symbols. The patterns are the formulas of input symbols that repeat. The method of derivations is the most conservative and reliable one, namely, mathematical deductions. The results are somewhat surprising 1. Patterns are properties of the isomorphic class, not an individual relation - This implies that the notion of patterns may not mature yet and explains why there are so many extracted association rules 2. Un-interpreted attributes \(features can be enumerated 3. Generalized associations can be found by solving integral linear inequalities. Unfortunately, the number is enormous. This signi?es the current notion of data and patterns \(implied by the algorithms 4. Real world modeling may be needed to create a much more meaningful notion of patterns. In the current state of AM, a pattern is simply a repeated data that may have no real world meaning. So we may need to introduce some semantics into the data model [12],[10],[11 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE References 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases  in Proceeding of ACM-SIGMOD international Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 


216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 2] Richard A. Brualdi, Introductory Combinatorics, Prentice Hall, 1992 3] A. Barr and E.A. Feigenbaum, The handbook of Arti?cial Intelligence, Willam Kaufmann 1981 4] Margaret H. Dunham, Data Mining Introduction and Advanced Topics Prentice Hall, 2003, ISBN 0-13088892-3 5] Fayad U. M., Piatetsky-Sjapiro, G. Smyth, P. \(1996 From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery: An overview. In Fayard, Piatetsky-Sjapiro, Smyth, and Uthurusamy eds., Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI/MIT Press, 1996 6] H Gracia-Molina, J. Ullman. &amp; J. Windin, J, Database Systems The Complete Book, Prentice Hall, 2002 7] T. T. Lee  Algebraic Theory of Relational Databases  The Bell System Technical Journal Vol 62, No 10, December, 1983, pp.3159-3204 8] T. Y. Lin  Deductive Data Mining: Mathematical Foundation of Database Mining  in: the Proceedings of 9th International Conference, RSFDGrC 2003 Chongqing, China, May 2003, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence LNAI 2639, Springer-Verlag, 403-405 9] T. Y. Lin  Attribute \(Feature  The Theory of Attributes from Data Mining Prospect  in: Proceeding of IEEE international Conference on Data Mining, Maebashi, Japan, Dec 9-12, 2002, pp. pp.282-289 10] T. Y. Lin  Data Mining and Machine Oriented Modeling: A Granular Computing Approach  Journal of Applied Intelligence, Kluwer, Vol. 13, No 2, September/October,2000, pp.113-124 11] T. Y. Lin, N. Zhong, J. Duong, S. Ohsuga  Frameworks for Mining Binary Relations in Data  In: Rough sets and Current Trends in Computing, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence 1424, A. Skoworn and L Polkowski \(eds 12] E. Louie,T. Y. Lin  Semantics Oriented Association Rules  In: 2002 World Congress of Computational Intelligence, Honolulu, Hawaii, May 12-17, 2002, 956961 \(paper # 5702 13  The Power and Limit of Neural Networks  Proceedings of the 1996 EngineeringSystems Design and Analysis Conference, Montpellier, France, July 1-4, 1996 Vol. 7, 49-53 14] Morel, Jean-Michel and Sergio Solimini, Variational methods in image segmentation : with seven image processing experiments Boston : Birkhuser, 1995 15] H. Liu and H. Motoda  Feature Transformation and Subset Selection  IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol. 13 No. 2, March/April, pp.26-28 \(1998 16] Z. Pawlak, Rough sets. Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





