html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Employing  Zachman Enterprise Architecture Framework to Systematically Perform Model-Based System Engineering Activities Mara Nikolaidou, Anargyros Tsadimas, Nancy Alexopoulou, Dimosthenis Anagnostopoulos Department of Informatics &amp; Telematics, Harokopio University of Athens 70 El. Venizelou Str, 176 71 Athens, Greece mara, tsadimas, nancy, dimosthe}@hua.gr Abstract There are numerous Enterprise Information System EIS ering different aspects. However, in order to integrate them in an Enterprise Architecture, model-based engineering can be adopted. In such a case, a central system model is de?ned supporting all engineering activities. Zachman  s matrix may be used as a basis for constructing such a model Based on this assumption, we propose a systematic approach for the support of model-based EIS engineering process using Zachman matrix as EIS central model. Basic EIS engineering activities and the way they may be served by speci?c rows is explored, while the contribution of each system aspect \(matrix column conceptual model for model-based EIS engineering is also introduced. To explore the proposed concepts in practice the System Network cell is used as an example. Corresponding engineering tasks and sub-models are formed based on the proposed guidelines in a technology and methodology independent fashion. A case study based on the proposed concepts is also presented 1. Introduction Enterprise Architecture \(EA 19], [24 are characterized as an attempt to integrate strategies, processes, methods, models and tools towards enterprise information system engineering [1].There are a lot of EIS engineering methodologies in the literature [8], each of them covering speci?c EIS engineering aspects. However, in order to integrate all of them in practice, the support of different system models cannot be avoided. In many cases, these models are not compatible, or even not known to others The desired integration of people, strategies, processes methods, models and tools could be accomplished by adopting model-based EIS engineering \(MB-EISE case, a central system model must be de?ned capturing all system requirements and decisions that ful?ll them at different levels of abstraction. Since central system model serves all engineering activities, it should be technologyneutral, multi-layered, modular and composite, facilitating the integration of system sub-models corresponding to different perspectives and their progressive re?nement. Relevant methodologies and tools addressing discrete engineering issues may be applied to speci?c system sub-models In [20], the concept of using Zachman framework [25 as the basis for establishing a central EIS model for MBEISE was introduced. As such, Zachman matrix serves as a canvas to integrate different concerns, issues and methods towards MB-EISE, while speci?c methods may use parts of it as a reference point. We also identi?ed some basic guidelines individual model-based methodologies should ful?ll in order to be integrated into the Zachman matrix, focusing on how to establish the EIS sub-model corresponding to each of them. In an effort to apply these concepts in practice in a large scale organization, it became clear that the process of effectively forming the central EIS model was a complex one, while one of the main obstacles identi?ed was the lack of a common understanding of the purpose of the central model by different stakeholders involved in EIS engineering. This resulted in EIS sub-models, which served well individual methods corresponding to them, but had poor interoperability since it was unclear how speci?c methods should be interrelated To further establish the perception of MB-EISE based on Zachman framework, in the following we identify primary 


Zachman framework, in the following we identify primary EIS engineering activities and explore the way they can be supported by speci?c Zachman matrix rows and columns resulting in an ?rst level approach describing model-based EIS engineering process. To this end, we propose a gineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows b Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE ANSI/IEEE 1471 standard [13], which may assist designers to formulate the central EIS model c ties performed based on each cell-related view. Each of these activities consists of speci?c tasks that may be implemented by a speci?c EIS engineering method Special attention was paid on de?ning EIS views and viewpoints for each cell in order to enhance information exchange between them To explore the proposed concepts in practice, the System Network cell of the Zachman matrix is used as example, already discussed in [20]. Model-based EIS architecture design is focused in this cell. EIS architecture design activity is described based on common ?rst-level MB-EISE activity model proposed. Identi?ed tasks may contribute to related individual method and tool integration. System Network meta-model is adjusted to support individual EIS architecture design tasks and enhance inter-cell communication. The experience obtained when applying the proposed concepts during the renovation of the legacy system of a public large-scale organization is also discussed The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 summarizes model-based EIS engineering based on existing standards and frameworks. In section 3 the way MBEISE process may be systematically supported by Zachman framework is explored. MB-EISE activities are identi?ed, while a conceptual model for MB-EISE process is proposed. Section 4 explains how the main concepts of the proposed approach can be applied in identifying engineering tasks and EIS views for EIS architecture design performed within System Network cell. In section 5, a case study is presented to discuss the experience obtained when applying the proposed concepts. Conclusions and future work are discussed in section 6 2. Background - Model-based EIS Engineering System engineering is de?ned as  an interdisciplinary approach and means to enable the realization of successful systems  16]. Model-based system engineering \(MBSE is about elevating models in the engineering process to a central and governing role in the speci?cation, design, integration, validation, and operation of a system. In such a case, activities that support the engineering process are to be accomplished by developing models of increasing detail [8]. Consequently, model-based EIS engineering can be de?ned as  the process of specifying, designing, integrating, validating and operating an Enterprise Information System based on the development of a central model which can be extended in different levels of increasing detail  This process is based on a process model that de?nes the primary activities that must be performed to accomplish EIS engineering. Each engineering primary activity [17], for example system design, may be further decomposed to more speci?c tasks in different levels of detail A method is used to identify the way such tasks should be performed, while tools may contribute to the accomplishment of speci?c tasks/subtasks based on a speci?c method The way EIS engineering tasks, methods and tools are integrated leads to different engineering methodologies. There is no point in attempting to construct a holistic methodology for EIS engineering due to the diverse nature of the issues explored and the increased complexity. However, the 


issues explored and the increased complexity. However, the adoption of MBSE leads to the progressive construction of a central EIS model, independent of speci?c methodologies and tools, addressing all engineering activities in different levels of detail The central EIS model can be de?ned as a collection of views and corresponding viewpoints, according to ANSI/IEEE Std 1471 [13], which provides a standard way of de?ning EIS models. It is ef?cient to de?ne such a central EIS Model in practice? How many viewpoints are needed? How can it be ensured that all engineering activities are served by de?ned views? What is the level of description we should engage on? There is no unique methodology to address EIS engineering [8]. Furthermore even well-established frameworks need further re?nement 24]. We argue that trying to construct such a detailed model, accommodating all engineering tasks and discrete aspects of EIS, for example functionality, architecture, enterprise goals etc, is a pointless effort, due to increased complexity and diversity of issues, especially as the level of detail increases. Instead, one should provide a framework accommodating primary EIS engineering activities which targets the integration and interoperability of discrete methodologies, tools and perspectives. Such a framework should identify all aspects and perspectives of EIS and be technology-neutral. Furthermore, it must provide EIS viewpoints and corresponding views, de?ne rules for their interrelation/interaction and at the same time facilitate modelbased exploration of discrete EIS engineering issues using speci?c methodologies and tools in different levels of detail within corresponding views Enterprise architecture \(EA ward this direction. An overview of existing EA frameworks can be found in [11] and [19], while a wide discussion on Enterprise Architecture lays on [24]. Enterprise architecture discipline focuses on a holistic view of the Enterprise targeting at documenting the evolution of all enterprise aspects in order to ful?ll its goals. EA frameworks facilitate modeling of all enterprise aspects and perspectives Thus, they may serve for MB-EISE as well, while in this case we focus on the integration and formal communication of models, rather than the extensive description of all enterprise aspects targeted by EA efforts. We argue, that ZachProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 man framework could be most suitable for establishing a central EIS model for MB-EISE [20]. As indicated in [24 and [9], Zachman framework is the most popular EA framework, while many of the other ones are based on it. Most of them usually emphasize in speci?c issues, but they do not introduce new perspectives or system aspects. Furthermore Zachman framework is technology-neutral. A plethora of methodologies and formalisms exist \( [6], [9], [22], [7 each applicable to some subset of cells, while respective system models are de?ned 3. Using Zachman Matrix to accommodate MB-EISE Activities Zachman framework provides a holistic model of enterprise information infrastructure. We argue that each matrix row may serve model-based implementation of a discrete primary engineering activity, as de?ned in [17] and proposed by INCOSE [16], addressing the needs of corresponding stakeholders. \(see ?gure 1 The ?rst two rows, namely Scope, denoting business purpose and strategy, and Business Model, describing enterprise functionality, are intensively business-oriented and are expressed in business oriented vocabularies [24]. They may serve two discrete primary EIS engineering activities, namely De?ning Enterprise Objectives and Establishing Enterprise Functionality respectively. De?nition of Enterprise Objectives may comprise speci?c activities, such as Policy Management, Enterprise Environment Manage 


as Policy Management, Enterprise Environment Management, Investment and Risk Management, and others characterized in IEEE 15288 as enterprise processes [17]. Establishing Enterprise functionality focuses on describing the provided services and corresponding requirements imposed by different stakeholders. The third row, namely System Model, which delineates how the system will satisfy the requirements yielding from business objectives, may serve EIS Design \(both at software and hardware level sign facilitates requirements analysis and architectural design of both applications/data and EIS architecture. The next two rows, namely Builder Model, representing how the system is implemented and Out-of-Context including implementation-speci?c details, may serve Implementation and Detailed Implementation respectively [16]. The last row, Operational, which is the functioning system, may serve Support and Maintenance activities, also included in EIS engineering cycle. All primary engineering activities as described in ?gure 1, are interrelated and recursively executed, since EIS engineering is an iterative process targeting the continuous improvement of EIS [16]. Model-driven implementation of these primary engineering activities based on Zachman matrix rows, accommodates the concurrent execution of them based on the EIS sub-model of the corresponding row, provided that they may obtain the informaFigure 1. MB-EISE primary activities based on the Zachman framework tion needed by other Zachman matrix rows. Such an approach also facilitates the progressive engineering of EIS in different levels of detail, performed in cumulative cycles. Rules governing the Zachman framework, as de?ned in [25], are applied during model-based EIS engineering as well. EIS sub-models corresponding to each row are interrelated. The respective requirements are progressively re?ned starting from enterprise objectives to the functional EIS supporting it Each primary engineering activity should be explored taken into account related requirements identi?ed by the respective stakeholders. A requirement denotes a capability or condition that must \(or should specify a function that a system must perform or a condition a system must achieve [3]. Thus, requirements are divided into two main categories, i.e. functional and nonfunctional [5], [18]. The Zachman matrix consists of 6 different rows, identifying EIS different aspects, each of which reveals different requirements related to the speci?c aspect We argue that for each primary engineering activity, six different EIS viewpoints should be de?ned, each one related to a different EIS aspect. Data aspect describes the entities involved, while Function viewpoint shows how the entities are processed resulting to application implementation. Network viewpoint indicates where the entities are located resulting to EIS architecture. People viewpoint indicates users related aspects, while Time viewpoint reveals the way identi?ed entities are synchronized. All these viewpoints are used to explore functional requirements, which are related Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 to the functionality of the system. Non-functional requirements is a broadly used term. However, there is no consensus about the nature of non-functional requirements since various classi?cations of them exist in the literature [5] [18 We believe that the basic aspects of non-functional requirements can be depicted in three sub-categories, namely performance, constraint and speci?c quality in accordance with other researchers [10]. TheMotivation row of Zachman matrix relates to the reasons that lead to the speci?c functionality of an EIS. We argue, thus, that not-functional requirements should be handled by the Motivation viewpoint. A similar approach was also suggested in [9 3.1. EIS Viewpoint and View De?nition The conceptual model for MB-EISE using Zachman ma 


The conceptual model for MB-EISE using Zachman matrix according to ANSI/IEEE 1471 standard is depicted in gure 2. Enterprise architecture is described by an EIS Engineering framework based on the Zachman matrix. As such, the framework focuses on 6 different perspectives serving discrete primary engineering activities according to Zachman matrix row rationale and 6 different aspects according to Zachman matrix column rationale. Thus, EIS engineering framework consists of 36 EIS views, de?ned according to the combination of perspectives and aspects For each EIS view a viewpoint is de?ned serving the corresponding stakeholder  s perspective on a speci?c aspect For example the Design Function Viewpoint serves application designer. EIS view de?ned by each viewpoint corresponds to EIS sub-model related to the speci?c cell, while the central EIS model is constructed by integrating all Zachman cell sub-models. Each aspect viewpoint \(for example function speci?c engineering activity \(for example design a corresponding EIS sub-model, while speci?c methodologies and tools may be applied within EIS viewpoint corresponding to each Zachman matrix cell. For example, RUP methodology [7] could be employed for application design within System Function cell. To promote interoperability and integration, it is crucial to provide a typical de?nition of the meta-model describing each EIS view. In similar approaches, as in [9] which focuses on Zachman  s second row although some ideas are discussed, no formal meta-model is given for the description of each cell Since each view is treated autonomously, EIS sub-model describing it should contain all necessary information to perform the respective tasks. Therefore, both internal entities related to the speci?c engineering activity and external entities facilitating the integration with other cells, construct each view sub-model. External entities indicate the information needed by other cells, while they also indicate the information provided to other cells. Each cell view gathers information from all the cells of the same row \(participating in the same engineering activity column above and beneath it, while it also may pass information to them. Upper and lower cells participate in the progressive re?nement of enterprise requirements for the speci?c aspect. EIS view integration and inter-view consistency is accomplished by creating mappings between external entities of respective models. The corresponding stakeholder is responsible for describing internal entities of each cell-related view Each cell-related view may be further decomposed into EIS sub-views, focusing on speci?c issues. The corresponding stakeholder should be accommodated with a black-box indicating requirements imposed by external factors white-box \(describing the proposed solution EIS aspects under study [7] [15]. All sub-views constructing an EIS view should be related. As indicated in [4], two basic relations are identi?ed between views: re?nement \(the internal view re?nes the external view on a different level of detail two views may complement each other by considering complementary concerns are de?ned according to theme-speci?c viewpoints re?ning the respective EIS viewpoint For each EIS view, a corresponding representation model should be de?ned, along with the necessary mappings to EIS view sub-model. Independently of view de?nition meta-model, we suggest that UML [14] or SysML [15 should be adopted for EIS view representation, as they are very popular standards 3.2. First-level Description of Basic MBEISE Activity The model-based EIS engineering activity corresponding to any Zachman cell should support the basic tasks depicted in ?gure 3. They could be cumulatively resolved at 


different levels of detail, facilitating the progressive solution of related engineering issues. The way they are implemented or further analyzed is methodology-speci?c. The task of collecting requirements task relates to the extraction of external information from other cells and the re?nement of functional and non-functional requirements by the corresponding stakeholder. It can be served by multiple subviews, each of them grouping external entities related to different cells. The task regarding solution synthesis indicates the construction of alternative models to solve speci?c engineering issues. Solutions are consequently evaluated and optimized, while, based on evaluation results, both alternative solutions and imposed requirements may be adjusted In the latter case, solutions synthesized in other cells \(either in the same row or column tions suggested in different cells should be synchronized This can be accomplished by communicating external entity values to the corresponding external cells. Thus, interProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 Enterprise Architectures EIS Aspect Rationale According to Zachman Columns EIS View Representation Model Primary Activity Rationale Compatible to Zachman Rows EIS Sub-view EIS View Enterprise EIS Sub-model Concern Model-Library EIS Viewpoint EIS Engineering Framework Central EIS Model Viewpoint Library Theme/Specific Viewpoint Enterprise Stakeholder EIS Engineering Rationale Extented Environment EIS Engineering Perspective EIS Aspect Defined according to the combination of Aspects and Perspectives consists of 1 is served by 1 defined 11 described by 1 1 defined 11 describing 1 1 consists of 1..6   refined to 1 is important 


is important 1 describing 1 1 follows 1 1 consists of 1 identifies  relates to 1 1 has 1 complement covers 1 is served by 1 focusing on 1..6 represented 1 1 covers 1 1 1 relate to 0 described by 1 1 influenced by 1 1 relates to 0 Figure 2. MB-EISE conceptual model Figure 3. Basic engineering tasks performed based on each cell-related view operability between methodologies applied within each cell can be accomplished. These tasks should be further re?ned within the limits of each Zachman cell Since, even within the purpose of a speci?c methodology or viewpoint, discrete issues may be resolved using autonomous, heterogeneous tools, tool integration related to a speci?c task should be supported. Some of them may employ their own internal model for EIS representation. Thus tool coordination and internal meta-model transformation should also be supported. According to model-based engineering principles, consistency is ensured, since the EIS view meta-model acts as a  reference point  Prior to using an existing tool, the partial transformation of view metamodel into the tool  s internal meta-model must be facilitated. Using this transformation, the invocation and initialization of any tool can be automatically performed 4. Model-Based Enterprise Information Systems Architecture Design To further elaborate on basic MB-EISE activity model re?nement and the proposed guidelines for constructing EIS cell-related view and the interaction with external cells, the System Network cell of the Zachman matrix is used as example According to INCOSE [16], determining system architecture \(i.e. the way autonomous system components should be synthesized tecture design is the process of de?ning and optimizing the architecture of the information system \(both hardware and software ing that all software components are identi?ed and properly allocated and that hardware resources can provide the 


erly allocated and that hardware resources can provide the desired performance. This activity is performed based on the EIS view corresponding to system network cell, which should facilitate: \(a e.g. a system-oriented view of distributed applications b nition of system performance and availability requirements c d platform-independent distributed infrastructure \(e.g. network architecture and hardware con?guration e ciation of software components to network nodes \(resource allocation requirements EIS architecture design was also discussed in [20]. In the following, we provide a methodology-independent, modelbased EIS enterprise design activity model and describe the corresponding EIS architecture design sub-views as well as Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 Figure 4. EIS Architecture Design basic engineering tasks way they are interrelated to external cells 4.1. First-level Description of EIS Architecture Design MB Activity The basic tasks identi?ed during the EIS architecture design activity are depicted in ?gure 4. These tasks are in alignment with basic engineering tasks performed for each Zachman matrix cell, as depicted in ?gure 3. Collect Requirements task \(as depicted in ?gure 3 through two discrete stages i.e. Functionality De?nition and Requirements De?nition within System Network cell The former depicts functional requirements extracted from People, Data and Function cells of the system model row The latter concerns non functional requirements related to EIS architecture design, extracted from the Motivation cell of System Model row. Requirements included in this cell are either propagated from the upper layers of Zachman framework or speci?cally de?ned for system design and may relate to issues not relevant to EIS architecture design Only architecture design related requirements are propagated within EIS System Network view Next, the solution is synthesized through two interactive steps i.e. Topology De?nition and Network Infrastructure De?nition \( [7], [12 source allocation and replication. This task is performed taken into account the de?nition of system access points in terms of hierarchically related locations performed in upper Network cells \(Business row network cell in particular The term site is used to characterize any location \(i.e. a building, an of?ce, etc tity which can be further analyzed into sub-sites, forming thus a hierarchical structure Network Infrastructure De?nition refers to the aggregate network, described through a hierarchical structure comprising LANs. Devices, such as servers and workstations Figure 5. EIS Sub-Views corresponding to the System Network cell are associated with LANs at the lowest level of the hierarchy. Network nodes are either workstations allocated to users or server stations running server processes. Topology and Network Infrastructure De?nition tasks are interrelated. Both should be performed in the same hierarchical levels of detail. At the lowest level, network nodes should be related to processes/data replicas. In essence, interaction between these two tasks represents an interdependence in terms of derived requirements. Requirements derived during Topology De?nition affect Network Infrastructure Definition and vice versa. Therefore, Requirements De?nition is performed in parallel with Topology and Network Infrastructure De?nition as well. Developing requirements and architectural artifacts in parallel has already been addressed in the literature [23 


in the literature [23 After the solution deployment, validation is performed using simulation. Solution evaluation will determine whether the overall process will end in case the solution is satis?ed or readjustments will be performed through the recurrence of the previous steps The tasks of ?gure 4 corresponding to Requirements Collection and Solution Synthesis \(which presented in ?gure 3 relative views are de?ned, namely, Functional View, Topology View, Network Infrastructure View and Requirements View. These views constitute sub-views of the SystemNetwork view of Zachman framework. Solution validation and evaluation is performed using information included in all of them. Interrelations between corresponding tasks are re?ected upon the introduced views. These interrelations along with the dependencies between the introduced views and the related models of the corresponding Zachman cells are depicted in ?gure 5. Dependencies with external Zachman cells are bidirectional. Functional view obviously is in?uenced by and in?uences People, Data and Function cells of System Model row, while Requirements view interacts with SystemMotivation view. Topology view is bidirectionally related to Business Network view, while Network Infrastructure view to Technology Network view System Network views are illustrated in ?gure 5 in a blackbox manner. A white-box perspective of them will unfold through the description provided in the following paraProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 graph, further elucidating view interdependencies 4.2. Meta-model describing System Network View The meta-model of System Network view, e.g. entities constituting each sub-view and their interrelations, is adjusted to support the identi?ed tasks As depicted in ?gure 6, Functional view encompasses functional requirements derived by external system cells. It focuses on functional speci?cations \(e.g. application architecture, user behavior and data structures considered to be based on multi-tiered, client-server models. Each application tier, called module, comprises services. Application tiers and provided services should be in accordance to the model de?ned in Function cell, thus they act as external entities. User behavior is modeled through roles de?ning the behavior of different user groups. They act as external entities for People cell \(e.g. they could be related to user role entities cate portions of data used by applications. They also act as external entities for Data cell. For each service, a service description sub-view is de?ned indicating network infrastructure resources needed for its execution. The load imposed to network infrastructure resources each time the service is executed is expressed using operations selected from a prede?ned set called Operation Dictionary [21]. Service Description and Operation Dictionary sub-views will be further described latter after discussing Requirements view Topology view facilitates allocation of software, data and people resources. It comprises sites, de?ned in upper Network cells, processes de?ned as instances of server or client modules, user pro?les as instances of roles, and data entity replicas as instances of data entities de?ned in Functional View. The allocation of them to sites corresponds to software architecture design. Sites are organized in a hierarchical structure. Those belonging to the lowest level of the hierarchy are characterized as atomic Network Infrastructure view comprises the overall network decomposed to sub-networks. Devices, such as servers, workstations and other network devices are associated with LANs at the lowest level of the hierarchy. Devices may include a processing unit and a storage unit Networks and network nodes are characterized by capac 


Networks and network nodes are characterized by capacity indications, for example throughput, storage speed or processing power, which should be matched with load requirements, related to Topology view entities. As a result networks are associated to sites de?ned in Topology view while processes, data entity replicas and user pro?les located in atomic sites are allocated to server or workstation devices included in the corresponding LAN Requirements view comprises non-functional requirements derived from the System Motivation cell relevant to EIS architecture design or progressively de?ned during the execution of the EIS Architecture Design tasks. Requirements de?ned within requirement view are satis?ed by speci?c entities included in Functional, Logical and Network Infrastructure views and contribute to inter-view interrelations. In the following we provide a further classi?cation of non-functional requirements based on our objectives in respect to EIS architecture design. Three main categories are supported: performance, constraint and speci?c quality [10 Regarding constraint requirements, we focus on those concerning capacity. Capacity, which has to do with the limitations of the hardware and their impact to the system is related to Network Infrastructure view. Regarding speci?c quality requirements, we consider only availability requirements. They are associated with Network Infrastructure view, where availability deals with hardware aspects Availability requirements may be either derived from upper level requirements, within System Motivation cell, or de?ned with System Network cell during EIS architecture design. Requirements de?ned within System Network cell during EIS architecture design should be passed to EIS System Motivation view As depicted in ?gure 6, performance requirements are further decomposed to behavior, load and utilization. Utilization requirements are associated with Network Infrastructure view and regard the proportion of network infrastructure resources used by applications during normal operation or extreme conditions. Behavior requirements deal with service behavior and are time-related \(e.g. response times 6. Load requirements concern the load imposed to EIS resources by system entities, as processes and data replicas de?ned in Topology view, for example average data transfer load or data processing load imposed by a speci?c process. These requirements are derived ones, which should be calculated for execution of each speci?c service based on behavior requirements and service decomposition described in Service Description sub-view The execution of each service relates to speci?c load requirements imposed to network infrastructure. To identify such requirements the amount of information processed stored or transferred during its execution should be estimated. The Service Description sub-view is introduced for this purpose, de?ned for each service included in Functional view. Since service functionality can be complex, it is not easily described in terms of the amount of information processed, stored or transferred during its execution. To facilitate the progressive estimation of load parameters, a set of operations are de?ned for the description of service load requirements [21]. Operations are selected from a prede?ned set de?ned in Operation Dictionary sub-view, which comprises application and elementary operations. Application Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Functional View Topology View Requirement View Network Infrastructure View Service Description Sub-view Operation Dictionary Sub-view Operation Activation 


Service Description Service Data Entity Replica Processing Unit Network Device Invoke Derive Specific Quality Non-Functional Performance Requirement Storage Unit Workstation User Profile Application Constraint Availability Transition Functional Data Entity Operation Behavior Utilization Network Process Capacity Module Initiate Invoke Initiate Server Role Load Site Node Call Requirements satisfied by Network Infrastructure View Requirements satisfied by Topology View Requirements satisfied by Functional View 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 source-outgoing source-outgoing target-incoming 1 1 1 1 outgoing1-source1 target -incoming1 source outgoing target incoming target1 incoming source outgoing1 1 1 source outgoing target 


target incoming target incoming target incoming source outgoing Figure 6. EIS System Network View Meta-model operations are those used for service description and must be ultimately decomposed into elementary ones \(i.e. data processing, storing and transferring are estimated through parameter values that are propagated by service invocation parameters to parameters describing application operations constituting the service description which are further propagated to parameters describing elementary operations 4.3. EIS Architecture Design Task Implementation EIS Architecture Design tasks may be supported by existing tools [20]. Systems Modeling Language \(SysML 15] is considered as the most appropriate for EIS System Network model representation and requirement engineering, since it supports the concepts of requirements and resource allocation. As a direct consequence, SysML allows the representation of requirements as model elements which means that requirements are part of the system architecture. For representation purposes, a SysML pro?le for EIS System Network meta-model \(?gure 6 mented as a plugin to MagicDraw modeling tool [2]. In order to facilitate model exchangeability, EIS System Network model is being realized in XML, which is a standard exchangeable format. In order to exchange data with speci?c software tools, model transformations will be accomplished through appropriate XSLTs developed for each tool for example as the one transforming XMI to the EIS System Network document type description \(DTD 5. Case Study In the following we discuss the case of renovating a legacy information system supporting a large-scale public organization based on the proposed concepts. The organization supports more than 350 interconnected regional of?ces and its main purpose is to provide services to the public both citizens and businesses. Regional of?ces are divided into three categories according to their size and information infrastructure requirements \(large, medium and small More than 15.000 employees work in the organization having on-line access to the legacy system. There are more than 300 different services provided to the public, while each citizen is required to register in the one belonging to his/her residential area, called residential of?ce. Some of them require the actual presence of citizens in their residential of?ce Existing system architecture is based on a fat clientserver architecture. All application logic is programmed within the client platform, while data is distributed in local database servers located in each regional of?ce. A Central database is supported in the Datacenter for data synchronization and lookup purposes. The Datacenter and all regional of?ces participate in a private TCP/IP network to facilitate ef?cient data replication. Most data related to a speci?c citizen are maintained as local data in his/her residential of?ce. Client programs access the local database to store data, while they access the central database mostly for lookup purposes. Local data are asynchronously replicated in the central database using a transaction management system \(TMS Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 to facilitate communication with the central database. The central database provides the overall view of each citizen  s record 


record To enhance the level of services provided by the organization, we decided to establish an enhanced e-services environment through an e-government portal. The main target of the portal is to minimize the need for citizen  s presence in regional of?ces and intents to deal with all the drawbacks of the current e-service platform. It provides easy access to citizens and businesses twenty four hours per day, seven days per week. It also promotes the increase of e-services to users, facilitating the organization to accomplish its strategic goals. The portal facilitates on-line transactional services and ensures on-line access to the databases of the legacy information system Provision of transactional e-services re?ects the operation of the legacy system and thus results in its renovation. In order to effectively support both systems \(e.g the portal and the legacy system able to apply the same policies and minimize maintenance cost. Thus, it was decided to explore the renovation of the legacy information system by adopting modern technological trends, such as multi-tiered application architecture server-based computing and light clients. It was decided also to rewrite application code based on J2EE architecture to develop a web interface for the legacy information system in order to support a uni?ed environment for both the legacy system and the portal. This decision affected the legacy system architecture, described in System Network View. Some of issues raised included: \(a database architecture? It is currently distributed. Should it become centralized? What are the implications in the network infrastructure? \(b complished to minimize maintenance cost Though EA was never fully described, the organization had already decided to establish an EA based on Zachman framework a few years ago. RUPmethodology was used for software development, thus application description models were developed within Rational Rose platform. In order to be able to apply the proposed tasks identi?ed in section 4, relative information had to be extracted from the corresponding cells. Application description \(e.g. applications and modules tracted from corresponding Rational Rose ?les. Though the process was not automated, the provision of System Network meta-model, helped architecture designer to identify the information needed to obtain from software designers Detailed service description in terms of load requirements could not be extracted from software description. This was crucial in order to decide upon Intranet and Datacenter architecture. This information was collected by interviewing software developers The new system has to deal with a number of require&lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office oracle L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt tuxido L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department tuxido Central 


tuxido Central lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt R.O. server room lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt oracle net lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt tuxido lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt application lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt Figure 7. Topology View - Existing System ments, with security and availability being the most important ones. Security issues have to do with the security of the network, security of data, authentication control, etc. Availability requirements deal with the backup subsystem, the recovery system and high availability UPS. Privacy must be enforced with the use of cryptography and compression techniques. All these requirements were identi?ed during the System Architecture design process and consequently exported in System Motivation cell where all system requirements are gathered using a simpli?ed text-based requirement description method System Architecture design tasks were performed by existing tools already described in [20]. The existence of System Network meta-model and its implementation in XML facilitated tool integration and interoperability. The identi?cation of primary EIS engineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows and columns facilitated a better understanding between software developers, architecture designers and organization management and enhanced discrete methodology integration. Existing and renovated application architecture of the legacy system de?ned by Topology View are presented in ?gures 7 and 8 respectively. The screenshots are from the MagicDraw [2] tool, enhanced with EIS pro?le to provide the appropriate functionality 6. Conclusions &amp; Future Work MB-EISE process based on Zachman framework was explored in the paper. The designer may adjust basic MB-EISE activity model for each cell, formulate a methodology-independent EIS cell-related view, and ?nally identify methods and tools appropriate for implementing each speci?c task. One could argue that in such a case, 36 distinct EIS sub-views should be de?ned, each of them being rather complex, while basic MB-EISE activity should be adjusted 36 times, resulting in a very complicated process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Application Server lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt 


lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt web browser lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Web Server lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer &lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt Figure 8. Topology View - Renovated System However, EIS engineering process, as enterprise architecture, is itself complex. The bene?t of the proposed approach is that all aspects \(simple or complex form and modular fashion. Cell-related sub-views and corresponding meta-models, as well as cell-related MB-EISE activity model may be progressively formed according to the designer  s priorities and perspectives Having a black-box view of each Zachman cell, the proposed approach focuses on EIS view integration and interview consistency. The notion of external entities when de?ning EIS cell-related views provides the means for interoperability with external cells, while at the same time facilitates atomicity within the limits of each cell. We are currently emphasizing Business and System rows, and especially Function and Network cells, exploring in parallel Motivation column and the way non-functional requirements are managed Having a white-box view of each Zachman cell, it is evident that the de?nition of a technology neutral metamodel and the identi?cation of basic engineering tasks, corresponding to EIS cell-related views, contributes to the integration of different methodologies and tools. A library of EIS System Network models has been already implemented in XML. Emphasis is given to requirements management and especially requirements derivation References 1] Institute For Enterprise Architecture Developments http://www.enterprise-architecture.info 2] MagicDraw UML. http://www.magicdraw.com 3] A. Aurum and C. Wohlin. Engineering and Managing Software Requirements. Springer, 2005 4] F. S. d. Boer, M. M. Bonsangue, J. Jacob, A. Stam, and L. W N. v. d. Torre. A Logical Viewpoint on Architectures. In EDOC, pages 73  83. IEEE Computer Society, 2004 5] E. R. Byrne. IEEE Standard 830: Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Speci?cations, 1998 6] B. Dave and D. Jim. The new, improved RUP SE Architecture Framework, 2005. IBM Rational Edge 7] D. J. de Villiers. Using the Zachman Framework to assess RUP. Rational Edge, 2001 8] J. A. Estefan. Survey of Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE May 2007 9] A. Fatolahi and F. Shams. An investigation into applying UML to the Zachman Framework. Information Systems Frontiers, 8\(2  143, 2006 10] M. Glinz. On non-functional Requirements. 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2007 11] F. Goethals, W. Lemahieu, M. Snoeck, and J. Vandenbulcke. An overview of enterprise architecture framework deliverables. In Banda RKJ \(ed Introduction. ICFAI University Press., 2006 12] H.-P. Hoffmann. Harmony-SE/SysML Deskbook: ModelBased Systems Engineering with Rhapsody, Rev. 1.51 Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 


Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 13] IEEE. IEEE Recommended Practice for Architectural Description for Software-Intensive Systems - Std 1471. Technical report, oct 2000 14] O. M. G. Inc. UML 2.0 Superstructure Speci?cation, October 2004 15] O. M. G. Inc. Systems Modeling Language \(SYSML i?cation. Version 1.0, September 2007 16] INCOSE. INCOSE Handbook SE Process Model, September 2003. http://g2sebok.incose.org 17] Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers. IEEE Std 15288 -2004, Systems Engineering -System Life Cycle Processes, June 2005 18] A. v. Lamsweerde. Goal-Oriented Requirements Engineering: A Guided Tour. In Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering \(RE  01 19] S. Leist and G. Zellner. Evaluation of current architecture frameworks. In H. Haddad, editor, SAC, pages 1546  1553 ACM, 2006 20] M. Nikolaidou and N. Alexopoulou. Enterprise Information System Engineering: A Model-Based Approach Based on the Zachman Framework. In HICSS  08. IEEE Computer Society, 2008 21] M. Nikolaidou and D. Anagnostopoulos. A systematic approach for con?guring web-based information systems Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 17\(3  290, May 2005 22] C. M. Pereira and P. Sousa. A method to de?ne an Enterprise Architecture using the Zachman Framework. In H. Haddad A. Omicini, R. L. Wainwright, and L. M. Liebrock, editors SAC, pages 1366  1371. ACM, 2004 23] K. Pohl and E. Sikora. Supporting the Co-Design of Requirements and Architectural Artifacts. In 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference \(RE  07 pages 258  261, India Habitat Center, New Delhi, 2007 24] J. Schekkerman. How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 25] J. F. Sowa and J. A. Zachman. Extending and Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture. IBM Systems Journal, 31\(3  616, 1992 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





