html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">A Thin  Client Interface to a High Performance Multi-modal Image Analytics System  James W. Cooper IBM T J Watson Research Center jwcnmr@us.ibm.com Shahram Ebadollahi IBM T J Watson Research Center ebad@us.ibm.com Ellen Eide IBM T J Watson Research Center eeide@us.ibm.com   Abstract We describe a platform for performing text and radiology analytics \(TARA commercially available hardware and middleware components to construct an environment which is wellsuited for performing computationally intensive analyses of medical data The system, termed a  medical analytical platform  adopts a client-server approach for the display and processing of radiology images, utilizing a standard web browser client connected to a web server.  All of the computation is carried out on the web server and computationally intensive tasks are carried out on the attached IBM Cell processor. The system is used to store, fetch, align and display radiology images and the analysis of the associated text reports, and allows for real time processing of the images We describe novel algorithms for displaying slices of 3D images within a web browser, and for displaying and searching down the RadLex tree and an annotation system for discovering drug dosages in the accompanying clinical reports 1. Introduction The advent of computer networking coupled with facilities for massive storage and computation, enables medical data to be handled in a revolutionary way Rather than recording images on film and clinical reports on paper, doctors now have the option of storing patient data electronically.  This option enables a myriad of further possibilities, including instantaneous access to patient records and the merging of image and text reports in a single dossier for each patient.  The medical field has taken a step in that direction with the introduction of picture and archiving system \(PACS However, PACS systems have not dealt in detail with the computational requirements for image processing, nor for the additional information that can be provided by text analysis of the accompanying patient reports. Our system, TARA \(Text and Radiology Application systems by enabling two key features, real-time image analytics and the integration of imaging information with other relevant data sources such as electronic health records, in one convenient system for use by physicians. In this paper we describe the software architecture of the analytics platform, as well as one analytic function, fast image registration using an affine transform, which showcases the power of the platform. We have previously reported in detail [1] on the hardware aspects of this system, and report here on the software architecture of this unique thin-client system for combined text and image analytics  2. Background 


2. Background Conventional PACS systems allow you to fetch and examine single 3D images, and with some manipulation perhaps two 3D images at once However, such systems are cumbersome and do not provide any convenient way for 3 or more historical images to be viewed at once In the TARA system we describe here we attempt to construct a system that is easier to use and more flexible than available PACS systems and as well allows convenient use of the analytics platform HCI is formally defined as ?a disciple concerned with design, evaluation and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use [2].? In this paper we describe how the system was designed and implemented and touch on how its usability can be evaluated In constructing this system we went through the gearing up phase,? understanding the user?s requirements in displaying multiple 3D images and have constructed an Early Prototype system as described by Gould [3], in order to gain user feedback  3. System Architecture This Medical Analytics Platform \(MAP a web server, a file server, a computational server and a web browser based client. The web server can be as simple as the Apache HTTPD server [4] and Apache Tomcat [5] or as robust as IBM Websphere. In both Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE cases both HTML and JavaServer pages \(JSPs supported. The web server either hosts or is connected to a database such as IBM DB2 or Apache Derby [6 where tables of patient information, text analytic data and the location of actual images are stored Web server Image store Database FileNet Server Linux Server Cell Broadband Processor Web browser Figure 1 - The Medical Analytics Platform Architecture  While this basic system diagram implies a standalone system, the indicated connection to a database can be a connection to a standard hospital PACS, thus making TARA completely general and a useful extension to the standard approach for managing medical images In addition, we introduced a connection to the FileNet Content Manager [7] system to illustrate how large quantities of images and their annotations can be managed from within the same system 4. Using TARA To use the TARA system, you log in and select a patient by name. When the server delivers the list of patient names to the web page shown in Figure 2 the patients? ages and sexes are cached in the client web page so that they change immediately in the display as the patient names are selected   Figure 2 - Selecting a patient TARA then displays two patient images, usually pre- and post-operative images and allows you to scan through them on your web browser in real time 


through them on your web browser in real time This display is unique to the TARA system, and allows you to grab the scrollbar with your mouse and scroll through image slices in real time \(Figure 3 This is accomplished by server-side software that converts the DICOM or ANALYZE-format images into a series of JPEG images that the embedding JavaScript code can rapidly reload. The image slices are cached in the browser when the page loads so that scrolling among is very smooth and rapid. Once an image has been expanded, this is recorded in the database so future users will not need to wait for the additional second or so this expansion requires. The date of the expansion and last access is also recorded in the database so that these expanded images can be purged if needed The Java server-side code for reading these image formats was adapted from code available in the opensource ImageJ package available from the NIH. [8     Figure 3 - Real time display of image slices in TARA. Upper: slice 17; Lower: slice 34 in both images  The scrollbar is a JavaScript control from the Dojo library [9] as are the small floating icons above the images. The software is constructed so that a single scrollbar scrolls through both images simultaneously Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 This is an example of the multi-window scrolling described by Shneiderman [10 5. Software Architecture TARA is written entirely in Java \(server JavaScript \(client between browsers and operating systems and is not dependent on any version of Java or any other language system being installed on each client workstation Most actions you take on the client trigger calls to the host servlet and generate new client pages through JavaServer pages. On the server, a single servlet entry point detects the setting of a client page variable and uses it in a Factory pattern [11] to create an instance of the server side Java class to handle that particular command. Many of the commands then return the URL of a new client page which in turn obtains specific parameter settings from the server data stream and uses them to populate the information on the new client page Some pages utilize the AJAX [12] \(Advanced JavaScript and XML updates part of a page without the need for the whole page to be reloaded 6. Multi-modal Image Analytics Diagnostic images are acquired using different imaging modalities, such as X-ray, CT-scan, MRI, etc where each modality is suited for illustrating and capturing a different aspect of the patient?s anatomy Radiologists use a variety of tools to perform information extraction, or reconstruction of multimodal images to read them better and to make more informed decisions. Most of the image analytics routines are compute-intensive and are not suitable for use during image reading and diagnosis. For example registering a brain MR image to a baseline for the purpose of assessing the progression or regression of a tumor, is a very time consuming process. The radiologist has to make a request for this computation 


radiologist has to make a request for this computation to be carried out and wait for the results so he can assess the state of the patient?s health In the MAP, we provide these analytics on a highperformance computing platform, so that they can be applied to images at near real-time speed. The platform we employ for the high-performance image analytics is the Cell Broadband Engine processor 7. The Cell Broadband Engine The Cell Broadband Engine \(CBE asymmetric multi-core processor with high peak performance: it combines eight synergistic processing elements \(SPEs PPE processor. Two of these PPEs can be connected via a high speed bus as shown in Figure 4, so 16 SPEs can run in parallel. Each SPE, furthermore, has a SIMD Single Instruction, Multiple Data perform a floating or integer operation on four data elements at every clock cycle To accelerate an image analytic routine on this processor, you must optimize the program to exploit the parallelism at both task and SIMD-instruction levels and use the memory bandwidth efficiently. First at a task level, you must partition the program into multiple tasks that fit in the local store on each SPE Unlike conventional microprocessors, each SPE does not have hardware cache memory to manage the small on-chip local store. Thus, one can view this architecture as a distributed memory multiprocessor with a very small local memory attached to a large shared memory   Figure 4 - Diagram of the IBM Cell Broadband Engine \(CBE  8. Real-time Image Registration The TARA system provides near real-time image registration between two images, using the high performance computational capabilities of the Cell Broadband Engine \(CBE radiologists frequently make comparisons between images taken at two different time points for a given patient to assess changes, it has been reported that it is more accurate to look at the registered \(aligned images [14 The algorithm takes two images from a given patient, one of which is identified as ?fixed? and the other as ?moving,? and creates a new image corresponding to the 3D affine transformation of the moving image to best align it to the fixed image, and has been described previously. [1 The specific registration algorithm we have implemented on CBE is based on Matte?s [15] mutualProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 information-based multi-resolution linear registration algorithm, as implemented in National Library of Medicine?s Insight Imaging Toolkit \(ITK  base implementation The CBE-based implementation of the registration algorithm was shown to register a pair of 256 x 256 x 34 3D MR images in one second, with better time improvements achieved compared to the implementation of the same algorithm on a regular high-end PC for larger volumes [17 This is illustrated in Figure 5   Figure 5 - Registration of the same images shown in Figure 3 


in Figure 3 In the TARA system the Linux front end to the Cell processor has shared access to the same image storage space as the Web server does, making it easy to send a message to the Cell processor to carry out the real-time 3D registration. The resulting aligned image is written back to this shared disk space and expanded into individual JPEG images for each slice as described above 9. Image History It is not unusual for there to be a number of images available for a patient, accumulated over the course of his treatment, and TARA also provides a way to display and scroll through a number of images at the same time as shown in Figure 6   Figure 6 - A display of several images from a patient's history From this display you can also select a number of text analytic functions that summarize the findings of each clinical report. The buttons along the top of Figure 5 and the bottom of Figure 6 are created using the Dojo FisheyeList control, which means that they expand and show their captions as the mouse moves over them. This cross-platform JavaScript effect is much like the icons commonly found on the Mac-OSX platform 10. Text Analytics For each image there is an accompanying medical report that can be analyzed for a number of significant points. These example reports, which are a combination of clinical notes and radiological reports were written for us by Dr. Bradley Erickson of the Mayo Clinic, following the style he and his colleagues typically use in their practice. They contain the diagnosis, patient history, current medications, vital signs and physical examination results, a report and plan and a description of the MRI image Our group has developed a series of text recognizers, termed ?annotators,? which recognize diagnoses, sites, drugs, Radlex [18] terms and various numeric concepts. These annotators operate in the Apache UIMA [19][20] framework where annotations can easily be combined to discover more complex concepts. These biomedical annotators have been collected into a package termed MedTAS  \(Medical text Analysis System ConceptMapper annotator that can recognize multiword terms from various dictionary files even if the various words in the phrase are in a different order or contain intervening modifier terms. It operates with or without case folding, and can recognize a base term or any of its synonyms and relate them all to the canonical name for each concept. When sufficient diagnostic information is present in the report, the MedTAS annotators can fill in the slots in a structured cancer model [21]where the relationships between much of this information can be represented The documents, their annotations, annotation types and offsets are stored in the server database and can be used to look up the data for any given document or to highlight particular terms as we illustrate in section 12 below 11. A drug dosage annotator As part of this project, we developed a text analytics technique for recognizing drugs and dosages so that they could be summarized to the clinician using the TARA interface. We developed a drug annotator based on the ConceptMapper annotator described above. It recognizes drug names based on a dictionary of base terms and synonyms, so that ?aspirin,? for 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 example is tagged so that the canonical \(generic is ?acetylsalicylic acid We recognize that dictionary-based drug annotation may be insufficient in the general case, where drugs have differently spelled names and synonyms in different countries, but within a single domain, such as brain cancer, for example, it is quite effective To expand this system to allow greater generality we would require a combination of a multi-lingual drug dictionary and some annotated documents where we can apply machine learning to recognize untabulated drug names from the context In addition we developed annotators to find the period \(hour, day, week, p.r.n, [as needed] b.i.d [twice a day], t.i.d [three times a day], etc mg, ml, drop, tablet developed a drug-dosage annotator that looks for all four of these concepts within a specific window usually a sentence or phrase. If all four are found, or if one of the abbreviations which designate both period and frequency, a drug dosage annotation is created. A typical annotation is shown in Figure 7   Figure 7 - A dosage annotation for Lipitor 80 mg per day In this figure, the phrase ?Lipitor 80 mg per day? is annotated as a drug dosage, and, as shown, the dosage quantity and period are correctly recognized. Note that the generic drug name ?atorvastatin? is entered as the canonical form for the drug name 10.1 Preliminary Evaluation of the Dosage Annotator We computed some preliminary accuracy numbers for the dosage annotator on a small series of reports This is not an exhaustive study but merely an estimate of its utility The nnotator was developed for a specific document format provided to us by scientists at the Mayo Clinic, where each drug/dosage phrase is on a separate line in the report. In reports in that format, the precision and recall of the drug dosage annotator is 100 The annotator does not do very well when several dugs and dosages are comma-separated in the same sentence, such as The patient is now taking Diovan 160 mg a day Neurontin 300 mg t.i.d., Norvasc 2.5 mg a day Bactrim three times a week, and Nexium 40 mg a day  However, it is a simple matter to write a preannotator to separate these phrases. In that case, in a series of 10 oncology reports provided to us by another partner, we observed 100% precision and 86% recall with all of the errors related to a the number annotator?s misrecognition of the number ?2.5  12. Displaying text analysis in TARA In the history display shown in Figure 6, you can select any of the images and then select one of the buttons to display the diagnosis, the drugs prescribed or the actual document. For example, if you select the Drugs button, the text in Figure 8 is added to the bottom of the display using Ajax   Figure 8 - The drug-dosage analysis for this clinical note In a similar fashion, you can display the entire report with site, diagnosis and drug dosage highlighted 


report with site, diagnosis and drug dosage highlighted   Figure 9 - A portion of the clinical note for this patient visit In Figure 9, the diagnosis and site are highlighted in the top of the window, and the drugs and dosages near the bottom. Note, that if you hover over the drug name Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 the generic equivalent canonical name is displayed as shown  13. Annotating and Displaying Radlex Terms RadLex is a complete ontology [18] of terms commonly used in radiology, and is commonly represented as a tree of  general terms and more specific terms as you move down the tree.  The main top-level categories include treatment, imaging procedure, substance, imaging observation characteristic, modifier, imaging observation, anatomic entity, teaching attribute, relationship and image quality. Most of the observations we concern ourselves with in text analytics are found in the imaging observation and anatomic entity categories The RadLex ontology can be downloaded as an XML file that you can view and edit using the Prot  g   browser [23]. For the TARA server application, we converted this file into a database where keys in each row maintained the tree structure as well as the synonyms. In addition, we generated a dictionary for the ConceptMapper annotator so we could annotate all the Radlex terms in the Imaging Observation and Anatomical Entity categories This makes it possible to store the Radlex annotations we discover in the database of annotations and using the tree structure in the RadLex term database find terms that are above or below a specific term in the RadLex tree. You can then use this information to make text searches more general In TARA, we annotated and indexed about 273 deidentified radiology reports that were originally provided as part of the ImageCLEF competition [24 This makes it possible to search for specific terms or their parents or children within any of the documents in the collection The TARA RadLex search screen is based on the Dojo ComboBox and fills the list of terms in the dropdown based on the characters you type. The ComboBox works using Ajax calls to the server to return a list of the terms that start with the characters you have just typed   Figure 10 - Typing "glio" into the Radlex lookup ComboBox In Figure 10, the user has typed ?glio? into the ComboBox, and all the RadLex terms beginning with that term are shown in the dropdown. You can then select any of these terms with the mouse cursor and search for them. In the figure, the umbrella term glioma? is selected. Then, when you click on the Find radlex term? button, the search term is sent to the server, and the related terms are returned in a Dojo Tree control   Figure 11 - The RadLex tree expanded below glioma We designed the Dojo Tree display in a unique way 


We designed the Dojo Tree display in a unique way to open only to the node that is to be displayed, without opening the outer nodes above it. This is a more effective use of screen space. However, any node that you click on, above or below the target node will open in the usual way Under the covers, this approach is accomplished using a pair of Ajax calls: one to fetch to nodes above the target node, without all their related nodes, and another to fetch the nodes that include the target term Each time you click on any node, a call is made back to the server to get all the expanded nodes and redraw them on the client 12.1 Searching Documents for RadLex Terms It is a simple matter to index all the medical documents in a collection using a search engine such as Lucene [25] and provide a way to search for strings within the documents. However, it is more useful to search semantically by selecting a RadLex term from the tree and searching both for the term and any of its children. We have implemented this search in the TARA system by proving a ?Search Documents button. If you select a RadLex term and click on this button, the server will return a list of all document which contain either that term or any of its children For example, if you search for ?glioma,? a document is return which does not contain ?glioma? at all, as shown in Figure 12 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6  Figure 12 - Highlighted text from a document returned from the query "glioma  This document refers only to astrocytoma, but as you can see from Figure 11, this is a direct descendant of glioma. This approach allows the user to specify a general term and obtain documents containing more specific subsidiary terms where the general term is never mentioned. This greatly enhances the power of the search system 14. Fetching Images from FileNet For the image data associated with these ImageClef reports, we have integrated the FileNet content manager system as an image repository. FileNet provides the advantage of being able to handle and index very large quantities of data, and index any annotations you might want to store with either the images or the reports In TARA, we store only the images in FileNet They are fetched when you click on any document in the list returned from the search, as shown in Figure 13  Figure 13 - An image returned from FileNet 15. Lessons Learned The TARA system was constructed as a proof of concept system to show to scientists and gain more information about how they might use the Medical Analytics Platform in their clinical and research work The system was first shown to radiologists and other scientists at the RSNA conference in November, 2007 Comments at the conference included ?you?ve just put me out of business,? from a radiologist who was used to carrying out the registration of images mentally while evaluating the images. This system was designed to illustrate new ideas and elicit feedback on its capabilities A number of users ?played? with the demonstration system and for the most part had no trouble deducing how it was to be used. As noted recently by Greenberg 


how it was to be used. As noted recently by Greenberg and Buxton [26], there are times during the initial development of new ideas when an evaluation of the user interface is premature. We were also extremely gratified to learn that the system is sufficiently robust and light weight that we were able to demonstrate it in real time at the CARS Conference in Barcelona, Spain using a server running in Yorktown Heights, NY Most important, however, the TARA system led to a follow-on research project with another hospital which we are now carrying out. This project, part of which is based on the design of TARA, is undergoing a thorough usability evaluation now 16. Summary and Conclusions We report on the development and implementation of a thin web based client \(TARA modal text and image analytics of radiology images and their associated reports. Linear registration of images can be accomplished on the Medical Analytics Platform \(MAP accelerate the computation. A novel algorithm is used to convert the 3D images to JPEG slices and for displayed in an HTML web page. The images are cached in the browser so that you can scroll among them rapidly using a Dojo-based scrollbar Any text attribute which can be recognized by an annotator is stored in a database and can be highlighted when displaying the document, or shown using an Ajax call in a designated area of the web page A unique algorithm has been developed for loading the Dojo tree-control in segments so that the entire expanded tree need not be displayed down to the point where a term is found A novel algorithm is described for recognizing drug dosages, by finding a mention of a drug, a quantity, an amount and a time period 17. Acknowledgements We gratefully acknowledge the cooperation of Dr Bradley Erickson of the Mayo Clinic in providing us with hypothetical sample clinic reports that we used in this study. We also acknowledge the help of Anni Code, Michael Tanenblatt and Igor Sominsky of IBM Research who are authors of a substantial part of the MedTAS annotator system  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 18. References  1] Cooper, J. W., Ebadollahi, S., Eide, E. Neti, C. and Iyengar, G. ?A Medical Imaging Informatics Appliance,? CARS Conference, Barcelona, Spain June, 2008 2] Hewett, Baeker, Card, Carey, Gasen, Mantei Perlman, Strong and Verplank. ACM SIGCHI Curricula for Human-Computer Interaction 1996 3] Gould, John D, ?How to Design Usable Systems excerpted in Baecker, R., Grudin, J., Buxton, W and Greenberg, S. Human Computer Interaction Toward the Year 2000, 2nd edition  MorganKaufman, 1995 4] http://httpd.apache.org 5] http://tomcat.apache.org 6] http://db.apache.org/derby 7] www.filenetinfo.com 8] http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij 9] www.dojotoolkit.org 10] Schneiderman, Ben, Designing the User Interface Addison-Wesley-Longman, 1998. \(459 11] Cooper, J. W., Java Design Patterns, A Tutorial Addison-Wesley, New York, 2000 


Addison-Wesley, New York, 2000 12] Aleson, R. and Schutta, N., Foundations of Ajax Apress-Springler-Verlag, New York, 2006 13] A US Patent application 12/098707 has been filed on the details of this process 14] Erickson, B.J. et al. ?Effect of Automated Image Registration on Radiologist Interpretation Journal of Digital Imaging. June 2007, 20 \(2 113 15] Mattes, D. Haynor, D.R.,Vessele, H., Lewellen T.K. and W. Eubank,  ?PET-CT Image Registration in the Chest Using Free-form Deformations,? IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging,  22 \(1 Jan 2003 16] Insight Segmentation and Registration Toolkit ITK 17] Ohara, Moriyoshi; Yeo, Hangu; Savino, Frank Iyengar, Giridharan; Gong, Leiguang; Inoue Hiroshi; Komatsu, Hideaki; Sheinin, Vadim Daijavad, Shahrokh, 2007 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo July 2007, 272 ? 275 18] www.Radlex.org 19] Ferrucci D., and Lally, A. ?The UIMA System Architecture,? IBM Systems Journal, March, 2004 20] Mack, Robert L. et. al. ?BioTeks: Text Analytics for the Life Sciences.? IBM Systems Journal March, 2004 21] Coden A, Savova, G, Sominsky, I., Tanenblatt, M Masanz, J, Schuler, K., Cooper, J., Guan, W., de Groen, P. ?A Automatically extracting cancer disease characteristics from pathology reports into a novel disease knowledge model,? submitted to Journal of Biomedical Informatics 22] www.incubator.apache.org/uima 23] http://protegewiki.stanford.edu/index.php/Protege_ Web_Browser 24] www.imageclef.org 25] www.lucene.apache.org 26] Greenberg, S. and Buxton, B., ?Usability Evaluation Considered Harmful \(Some of the Time      Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 pre></body></html 


explained jointly by legal &amp; policy environment, social amp; cultural infrastructure and GDP per capita  5.2. Phase-II \(2007  The descriptive statistics of the two IVs and DV used in the Phase-II data analysis are shown in Table 3 Table 3.  Descriptive statistics of the EIU 2007 data Item Mean Minimum Maximum Std Deviation LE 6.73 2.10 9.70 1.84 GP 6.33 2.50 9.85 2.08 CBA 6.37 2.50 9.50 2.08 The regression model is shown in Table 4.  The result showed that GP was the most significant predictor of e-commerce adoption \(p&lt;0.01 2007 sample.  The effect of LE on e-commerce adoption was not found significant here.  The relative importance of the two IVs in predicting a country?s ecommerce usage in this given model was about 1:2.89 corresponding to the ratio of unique contributions of legal environment and government policy Table 4.  The multiple regression model \(EIU 2007 Beta Std. Error t Significance LE 0.131 0.086 1.531 0.131 GP 0.379 0.088 4.303 0.000 SCI 0.184 0.095 1.942 0.057 GDPPP 0.329 0.073 4.524 0.000 Overall, R2 in the full regression model \(with the IVs and CVs together variance in e-commerce adoption in the EIU 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 sample was explained jointly by legal environment government policy, social &amp; cultural infrastructure and GDP per capita  6. Discussion and conclusion  6.1. Discussion of findings  The secondary data analyses in this study were able to demonstrate the cause-effect relationship between the institutional environment and e-commerce adoption.  Specifically speaking, the legal and policy environment did exert a substantial positive impact on e-commerce adoption around the world at the early stage of e-commerce \(the worldwide average score of e-commerce was only 5.51 out of 10 in the EIU 2003 sample government financial support of e-commerce and related infrastructure projects, effectiveness of legal framework, and laws covering e-commerce, together they fostered consumers and businesses in many countries to engage in e-commerce in 2003.  This finding proved the institutional perspective about the critical role of government policy and legal environment in driving e-commerce adoption Four years later, in 2007, the global average score of e-commerce improved from 5.51 to 6.37, at a rate of 16%.  As e-commerce became more prevalent in the world, supportive government policy still provided a powerful explanation for variations in e-commerce adoption around the world.  On the other hand, the impact of legal environment was reduced.  A possible explanation from the perspective of institutionalism is that a predictive and effective legal environment was important to reduce the institutional uncertainty and ensure the trust and confidence in e-commerce activities, especially during the initial stage of ecommerce development.  A good legal system is a safeguard for online commercial transactions Nevertheless, the encouraging influence of legal 


Nevertheless, the encouraging influence of legal environment would be diminished as people understand e-commerce better and e-commerce becomes a common practice in the society  6.2. Policy implication  An effective research project is not only used to explain and predict social phenomena, but also to help humans master them to achieve social objectives through yielding useful policy recommendations [60 All sound policy prescriptions should rely on a solid theory base, valid data analysis, and rational discussion.  In reality, however, policymakers generally lack adequate scientific evidence and knowledge for making crucial decisions on ecommerce development.  The application of institutional theory in e-commerce adoption and its empirical findings in this study have a clear relevance to policy makers.  If we understand better at the theoretical level how those institutional factors would produce an outcome of e-commerce adoption, we then have the basis for a conditional prediction in the real world on how e-commerce will develop in a certain environment.  It will help policy makers to formulate appropriate policies to accelerate e-commerce adoption Experience has taught us that it is important to build a friendly climate for technology innovation and diffusion.  The effects of the legal and policy environments will depend to a significant extent on how policy-makers and other stakeholders will act and influence.  According to this study, this is particularly vital at the starting stage of e-commerce.  The advancement in e-commerce adoption at Phase I 2003 environment and government policy.  In particular proactive government policies were the prime mover of e-commerce in many developing countries, and it is still a driving force of e-commerce diffusion today The fosterage of government policy is summarized as follows.  First, government policies that encourage investment in IT adoption, particularly the financial incentives, are stimulating to e-commerce development.  Second, government efforts to promote an open and free trade environment, including deregulating telecom markets, improving IT infrastructure, and conducting e-procurement itself will encourage e-commerce adoption and diffusion Third, government?s assurance on recognizing econtracts and providing legitimate legal frameworks will facilitate e-commerce activities.  Fourth government?s educational and training program will foster ?e-literacy? and greater awareness of ecommerce among businesses.  Last, cooperation between government and private sector is a key to ecommerce On the other hand, this study also shows that the lack of adequate legal framework might be a concern for engaging in e-commerce at first, but that the lack thereof would not deter the society from further ecommerce diffusion. Thus, after an initial push on ecommerce adoption, legislations should not interfere directly in private investments in e-commerce until there is a clear sign of market uncertainty and disturbance Finally, as Kofi Annan, the former SecretaryGeneral of UN, indicated, ?if all countries are to be benefited [from e-commerce], ? more needs to be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally 


done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally and internationally.? [7  7. References  1] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2007," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2007 2] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2002," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2002 3] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2006," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2006 4] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2001," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2001 5] R. Tehan, "E-commerce statistics: Explanation and sources,"  Washington, D.C.: Congressional Research Service, The Library of Congress, 2003 6] W. J. Clinton and J. Albert Gore, "A Framework for Global Electronic Commerce,"  Washington, D.C.: The White House, 1997 7] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2004," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2004 8] C.-F. Shih, J. Dedrick, and K. L. Kraemer, "Rule of law and the international diffusion of e-commerce," Association for Computing Machinery. Communications of the ACM, vol 48, p. 57, Nov 2005 9] J. E. Oxley and B. Yeung, "E-commerce readiness Institutional environment and international competitiveness Journal of International Business Studies, vol. 32, pp. 705723, 2001 10] K. A. Shepsle, "Institutional equilibrium and equilibrium institutions," in Political Science: The Science of Politics, H. Weisburg, Ed. New York: Agathon, 1986, pp 51-82 11] E. Ostrom, "An agenda for the study of institutions Public Choice, vol. 48, pp. 3-25, 1986 12] J. Ahrens, "The New Institutional Economics," in Governance and economic development Northampton, MA Edward Elgar, 2002, pp. 48-68 13] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "Introduction," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W Powell and P. J. DiMaggio, Eds. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp. 1-38 14] D. C. North, "The New Institutional Economics Journal of institutional and theoretical economics, vol. 142 pp. 230-237, 1986 15] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "The iron cage revisited: Institutional isomorphism and collective rationality in organization fields," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W. Powell and P. J. DiMaggio Eds. Chicago, IL: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp 63-82 16] J. L. King, V. Gurbaxani, K. L. Kraemer, F. W McFarlan, K. S. Raman, and C. S. Yap, "Institutional factors in information technology innovation," Information Systems Research, vol. 5, pp. 139-169, 1994 17] C. L. Iacovou, I. Benbasat, and A. S. Dexter, "Electronic data interchange and small organizations: Adoption and impact of technology," MIS Quarterly, vol. 19, pp. 465-485 December 1995 18] S. Dasgupta, D. Agarwal, A. Ioannidis, and S Gopalakrishnan, "Determinants of information technology adoption: An extension of existing models to firms in a developing country," Journal of Global Information Management, vol. 7, pp. 30-45, 1999 19] E. H.-h. Wang, "ICT and economic development in Taiwan: analysis of the evidence," Telecommunications Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 


Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 20] PWC, "SME Electronic Commerce Study \(final report Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation APEC PWC September 1999 September 24th 1999 21] A. Scupola, "The adoption of Internet commerce by SMEs in the south of Italy: An environmental, technological and organizational perspective," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 6, pp. 52-71 2003 22] S. Fraser and W. Wresch, "National competitive advantage in e-commerce efforts: A report from five caribbean nations," Perspectives on Global Development and Technology, vol. 4, pp. 27-44, 2005 23] I. Mia and S. Dutta, "Connecting the world to the networked economy: A progress report based on the findings of the Networked Readiness Index 2006-2007," in The global information technology report 2006-2007: Connecting to the networked economy, S. Dutta and I. Mia, Eds. Hampshire UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007, pp. 3-21 24] S. M. B. Thatcher, W. Foster, and L. Zhu, "B2B ecommerce adoption decisions in Taiwan: The interaction of cultural and other institutional factors," Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, vol. 5, pp. 92-104, 2006 25] EIU, "The 2003 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2003 26] P. Y. K. Chau and K. L. T. Hui, "Determinants of small business EDI adoption: An empirical investigation," Journal of Organizational Computing &amp; Electronic Commerce, vol 11, pp. 229-252, 2001 27] K. K. Y. Kuan and P. Y. K. Chau, "A perception-based model for EDI adoption in small businesses using a technology-organization-environment framework Information &amp; Management, vol. 38, pp. 507-521, October 2001 28] L. Cui, C. Zhang, C. Zhang, and L. Huang, "Exploring e-government impact on Shanghai firms' informatization process," Electronic Markets, vol. 16, p. 312, 2006 29] A. H. Seyal, M. M. Awais, S. Shamail, and A. Abbas Determinants of electronic commerce in Pakistan Preliminary evidence from small and medium enterprises Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 372-387, 2004 30] E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "E-commerce adoption Perceptions of managers/owners of small and medium sized firms in Chile," Communications of the Association for Information Systems, vol. 13, pp. 81-102, 2004 31] E. E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "Electronic commerce adoption: An empirical study of small and medium US businesses," Information &amp; Management, vol. 42, pp. 197216, December 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 32] Y.-B. Joo and Y. G. Y.-G. Kim, "Determinants of corporate adoption of e-marketplace: An innovation theory perspective," Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management, vol. 10, pp. 89-101, March 2004 33] A. M. Khalfan and A. Alshawaf, "Adoption and implementation problems of e-banking: A study of the managerial perspective of the banking industry in Oman Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol 7, pp. 47-64, 2004 34] J. Gibbs, K. L. Kraemer, and J. Dedrick, "Environment and policy factors shaping global e-commerce diffusion: A cross-country comparison," The Information Society, vol. 19 pp. 5-18, 2003 35] B. Shore, "Information sharing in global supply chain systems," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 4, pp. 27-50, 2001 36] C. L. Mann, "Electronic commerce, networked readiness, and trade competitiveness," in The global information technology report 2001-2002: Readiness for the networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D 


networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D Sachs, and K. Schwab, Eds. New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2002, pp. 90-103 37] EC, "The European e-Business Report 2006/07 edition e-Business W@tch, European Commission, Bonn, Germany 2006 2006 2006 38] G. Ndubizu and B. Arinze, "Legal determinants of the global spread of e-commerce," International Journal of Information Management  vol. 22, pp. 181-194, June 2002 39] H. Zhao, S. Kim, T. Suh, and J. Du, "Social institutional explanations of global Internet diffusion: A cross-country analysis," Journal of Global Information Management, vol 15, pp. 28-55, April-June 2007 40] J. L. Gibbs and K. L. Kraemer, "A cross-country investigation of the determinants of scope of e-commerce use: An institutional approach," Electronic Markets, vol. 14 pp. 124-137, June 2004 41] S. Xu, K. Zhu, and J. Gibbs, "Global technology, local adoption: A cross-country investigation of Internet adoption by companies in the United States and China," Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 13-24, 2004 42] K. Zhu and K. L. Kraemer, "Post-adoption variations in usage and value of e-business by organizations: Crosscountry evidence from the retail industry," Information Systems Research, vol. 16, pp. 61-84, March 2005 43] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, and S. Xu, "The process of innovation assimilation by firms in different countries: A technology diffusion perspective on E-business Management Science, vol. 52, pp. 1557-1576, October 2006 44] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, S. Xu, and J. Dedrick Information technology payoff in e-business environments An international perspective on value creation of e-business in the financial services industry," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 21, pp. 17-54, Summer 2004 45] E. Kaynak, E. Tatoglu, and V. Kula, "An analysis of the factors affecting the adoption of electronic commerce by SMEs: Evidence from an emerging market," International Marketing Review, vol. 22, pp. 623-640, 2005 46] M. Simpson and A. J. Docherty, "E-commerce adoption support and advice for UK SMEs," Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development, vol. 11, pp. 315-328, 2004 47] P.-F. Hsu, K. L. Kraemer, and D. Dunkle, "Determinants of e-business use in U.S. firms," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 10, pp. 9-45, Summer 2006 48] R. Bond and C. Whiteley, "Untangling the Web: A review of certain secure e-commerce legal issues International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 12, pp. 349-370, 1998 49] A. D. Mitchell, "Towards compatibility: The future of electronic commerce within the global trading system Journal of International Economic Law, vol. 4, p. 683, 2001 50] A. D. Murray, D. W. Vick, and S. Wortley, "Regulating e-commerce: Formal transactions in the digital age International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 13, pp. 127-145, 1999 51] G. I. Zekos, "MNEs, globalisation and digital economy Legal and economic aspects," Managerial Law, vol. 45, pp 5-296, 2003 52] Baker&amp;McKenzie, "Global E-commerce Law Resources," http://www.bakernet.com/ecommerce, Baker &amp McKenzie Law Firm, 2004 53] C. Hakim, "Research reviews, meta-analysis and secondary analysis," in Research Design: Successful designs for social and economic research, Second ed New York Routledge, 2000, pp. 21-33 54] K. L. Kraemer, "Introduction," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3 K. L. Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School 1991, pp. xiii-xvii 55] V. Gurbaxani and H. Mendelson, "The use of secondary analysis in MIS research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L 


Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 71-106 56] H. C. Lucas, "Methodological issues in information systems survey research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 273-285 57] EIU, "The 2001 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2001 58] V. Jupp, The Sage Dictionary of Social Research Methods. London: Sage Publications, 2006 59] EIU, "The 2007 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2007 60] S. V. Evera, Guide to Methods for Students of Political Science. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 1997   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


