html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">DEV: Design  Explorer for Verification John Lau Kah Soon IC Design Department Altera Corporation Penang, Malaysia necro john@hotmail.com Low Ching Ling IC Design Department Altera Corporation Penang, Malaysia cllow@altera.com Abstract  While the design complexity increases, tape-out schedule remains tight hence prompting development of a tool for applications in pre-silicon system to gate-level verification and ASIC design. The tool is developed to mitigate problems such as difficulty in hierarchical path name generation, difficulty in obtaining relation between interconnected blocks with regard to instances, ports, nets, and behavioural statements in a more meaningful way, difficulty in seeing the big picture of a design when the HDL code is extremely long even with the help of the automated tracing feature in third-party proprietary tool, and difficulty in tracing signals in ASIC designs. Data mining concept, arithmetic series and motivation from Google search engine are applied in the development of the tool with Perl and C++ as the programming languages. As a result of incremental development, current prototype of the tool known as Design Explorer for Verification \(DEV I/O metadata, structural metadata \(instances, ports and nets behavioural metadata, and has a tree diagram \(hierarchical graph level Configuration/JTAG verification, hierarchical path name debugging in full-chip verification, and full-chip contention check The devices involved are Stratix R  IV GX and Hardcopy R  III Index Terms  Data visualization, text data mining, search engine, ASIC design, functional verification I. INTRODUCTION As the industry heading into deep sub-micron process node chip density increases hence enabling proliferation of systemon-chip \(SOC SOPC vices into the market. Furthermore, design cycle is shorter than before as being first to market is the cliche in attaining technological and even market leadership. Intellectual property IP methodology [1] yet engineers still need to deal with increasing design and verification complexity amid shorter development cycle When an Application Specific Integrated Circuit \(ASIC designer need to reuse an IP block and integrate it into another product, time is required to learn and understand the legacy design intent before changes either major or minor can be implemented to ensure successful integration. Similarly verification engineer need to spend time to learn functionality of a design before writing testbench and stimulus or before debugging. Unless the IP block is designed from scratch by them, the learning curve will not be steep. During critical debugging period, time could be wasted to recall and confirm selected design functionality and mistakes could happen when the overall picture of interrelated logic cannot be quickly observed and traced. If there are inevitable hierarchical changes at system level or block level netlist, verification engineer need to spend time to generate new hierarchical path names 2] for successful compilation followed by re-execution of regression. The aforementioned amount of time spent can negatively impact development schedule II. MOTIVATION AND RELATED WORK Development of DEV was inspired by the Google R  search engine in which it was created due to need for a better search platform as the World Wide Web \(WWW tremendously in terms of complexity and amount of data [3 Therefore DEV aims to be a search engine to aid in Integrated 


Therefore DEV aims to be a search engine to aid in Integrated Circuit \(IC increases as more IP cores are added into it to increase its market value Application of data mining concept known as text data mining is essential in realizing the DEV. Text data mining is a process of exploratory data analysis to discover useful patterns over large text collection [4]. The large text collection in our case is a database of Verilog hardware description language HDL useful patterns in a design is a powerful motivation behind the development of the tool Another motivation is the opportunity to introduce a minimalistic approach in data visualization through arithmetic series, a basic mathematical concept. The current DEV version visualizes data in hierarchical graph or tree diagram form which is helpful in tracing a signal \(i.e. port or net Previous related work by Zaki and Tahar aims to detect Verilog code violations, remove redundant information, and extracting behavioural properties of the design to guide its verification [5]. As such text data mining in DEV is developed to filter out redundant lines of code and to extract important properties of a design In this work, the metadata term is used to define the data extracted by DEV. Metadata means data about data [6] and it is applied in other works that introduced metadata hierarchy for a set of websites [7] and category metadata for text data mining 4]. DEV is developed in such a way that it extracts data from design and categorizes them into Input/Output \(IO structural \(or hierarchical to adequately describe important properties of a design ISIC 2009413 TABLE I ANALOGY FOR DEV IT World IC World World Wide Web Design WWW RTL, netlist, libraries, models Google R  search engine DEV Fig. 1. DEV architecture III. DEV ARCHITECTURE OVERVIEW To grasp the big picture, as a specialized search engine DEV applies text data mining to extract metadata and data visualization to facilitate the presentation of a design in its entirety. The metadata aid in the information retrieval, which is an important part of a search engine [3], [4]. In our context when a search is made through DEV, the metadata provide links to retrieve information and the information is the design HDL codes located in the database. An analogy to illustrate and compare search engine in IC world and Information Technology \(IT Figure 1 depicts the anatomy of DEV that consists of 9 major components The components are Interpreter - user interface \(UI operations  Graphics engine - directly translates design or metadata into block diagram or data flow diagram without compilation and simulation. Current version is text-based  Design database analyzer - quite similar to web crawling 3], downloads HDL code links  Design parser - currently compresses and regularizes HDL codes  IO metadata extractor - searches all ports, nets and registers  Behavioral metadata extractor - searches related lines of code to a targeted pattern  Structural metadata extractor - searches all instantiations and interconnections  Hierarchical graph generator - searches a targeted net path propagation 


 Hierarchical path name generator - searches a targeted TABLE II IO METADATA SEARCH ALGORITHM 1. Iterate through list of HDL code links 2. Store each parent directory and filename 3. Pattern match for all ports, nets, and registers 4. Categorize the ports, nets and registers according to parent directory and filename 5. Store the search results in a log file module hierarchcy Each component is developed in such a way that it is scalable, reusable, and modular. All these 3 development goals are important in ensuring the sustainability of the tool as a long-term development project. For example, if one of the components becomes obsolete in the future, it can be replaced with ease IV. ALGORITHMS Through infusion of text data mining, data visualization and mathematic series concepts, 5 of the existing algorithms in the current version of DEV were implemented. The algorithms are summarized in Table II to Table VI. As observed from all tables below, the HDL code links are obtained from the design database analyzer. Before any search is executed, setup of a design database containing all HDL codes \(e.g. RTL, netlist libraries, and models analyzer  crawls  the database and store all HDL code links in a log file. In other words, DEV can be deployed anywhere due to the flexibility of the analyzer in determining correct path links to all the HDL codes. After  crawling  design parser removes all empty lines and comments hence compressing each HDL module. The compression is very much required to reduce runtime for any DEV operations. Moreover, various different coding styles exist so the parser modifies all HDL codes till desired uniformity is reached. The uniformity is essential in increasing accuracy of any DEV operations In DEV, 3 types of metadata are derived to sufficiently categorizes important patterns found in Verilog HDL code The patterns or data mined were presented in a meaningful format thus converting them into metadata. Both IO metadata and structural metadata are considered to be black box because both coverage is limited to module boundary only. Behavioral metadata provide white box type of data in which detailed interrelated functionality of a targeted pattern across modules can be observed. An interesting point to note is that hierarchical graph search flow is top-down whereas hierarchical path name search flow is bottom-up V. APPLICATIONS AND RESULTS Utilization of DEV in IC design and verification follows exactly data mining applications in which trends and patterns across large datasets are \(semi purposes of decision making [4]. In this case, large datasets refer to the design and the \(semi 414 TABLE III STRUCTURAL METADATA SEARCH ALGORITHM 1. Iterate through list of HDL code links 2. Store module name and file name 3. Pattern match instantiation of child module\(s and interconnection between them 4. Categorize the instantiation and interconnection in black box form as shown below:Instance of x1 as x2 in y1 x2.a \(x3.v y3.v x2.b \(x3.v y3.v x2.c \(x3.v y3.v 5. Store the search results in a log file which can later be used for wildcard or strict search x1 = child module name x2 = child module instance name x3 = child module file name y1 = parent module link 


y1 = parent module link y2 = parent module name y3 = parent module file name a, b, c, d, e, f ] = interconnected ports and nets TABLE IV BEHAVIORAL METADATA SEARCH ALGORITHM 1. Iterate through list of HDL code links 2. Select either strict search or wildcard search 3. Store module link 4. Search for lines of code that are related to a targeted pattern 5. Store the search results in a log file functional debugging, structural debugging, signal tracing and other possible applications conceivable through interfacing with other scripts, programs, or EDA tools. An example of actual application is the full-chip contention check in which the electrical verification is executed with different system of scripts, simulator and flow. Interfacing can be done with hierarchial graph generator, to aid in tracing root cause\(s contention in a chip. All of these help in decision making for initiating or finalizing design and verification tasks TABLE V HIERARCHICAL PATH NAME SEARCH ALGORITHM 1. Iterate through list of HDL code links 2. Recursively search for parent module/instance until top-level testbench module is reached, starting from targeted module 3. During recursion, concatenate each parent module instance separated by    4. Store the search results in a log file TABLE VI HIERARCHICAL GRAPH SEARCH ALGORITHM 1. Iterate through list of HDL code links 2. Recursively search for parent module/instance with interconnected path diverged from a targeted net Invoke hierarchical path name search function here 3. Concatenate net/port to the hierarchical path name 4. n = k ? 1 \(to exclude the dot that precedes net/port 5. Sort alphanumerically all hierarchical path names and associated n 6. Draw a hierarchical graph based on the search results 7. The hierarchical graph drawing algorithm is based on:an = am + \(n? 1 am = branch pattern at hierarchy level m m = topmost hierarchy level number n = hierarchy level number k = number of dots in a hierarchical path name an = branch pattern at hierarchy level n &gt; m d = empty space pattern TABLE VII IPS FOR TESTING DEV Altera IP Open Source IP Control Block OpenRISC 1200 Physical Coding Sublayer \(PCS Digital Signal Processor \(DSP Full-chip netlist So far DEV is tested on 6 IPs, 4 of which are Altera proprietary IPs and 2 are open source \(OS Table VII Two cases of DEV application results are presented below and IPs involved are OpenRISC 1200 [8] and Ethernet MAC 10/100Mbps [9 Figure 2 and Figure 3 depict the first case in which structural metadata are extracted from an incomplete uploaded version of OpenRISC 1200 and complete Ethernet MAC version. Comparing both figures, DEV can check for any missing module\(s in DEV which can prove useful for reverse engineering or IP Fig. 2. Incorrect structural metadata due to missing file or1200 top.v 415 Fig. 3. Correct structural metadata Fig. 4. Tracing mrx clk pad i in Ethernet MAC IP 


Fig. 4. Tracing mrx clk pad i in Ethernet MAC IP reuse. Of course missing module\(s compilation however when there is resource limitation, DEV would be a good alternative. Furthermore, DEV usage can be incorporated as part of the design flow in which analysis can precede compilation and simulation whereas search queries activity in parallel with the design flow Structural metadata are one-level hierarchy description of child module instantiation in and interconnection with a parent module, therefore exploratory data analysis is iterative because search must be done multiple of times manually to fully cover the entire hierarchy levels. Nevertheless, this feature proves useful to validate the path and hierarchical graph generated and to obtain black box description of a module. With the black box description, a selected port or net can be copied as an input to the hierarchical graph generator. This clearly shows a mutual interaction between structural metadata extractor and hierarchical graph generator The second case is on the signal tracing in Ethernet MAC IP using the hierarchical graph generator. Figure 4 shows search result on the mrx clk pad i net propagation path. The tree diagram in Figure 4 is a 2-level hierarchy and the level is denoted by number on the leftside of each hierarchical path name. Figure 5 shows search result on the MRxClk net propagation path. This search is a direct continuation from the MRxClk found in the tree diagram of Figure 4. It is validated by the hierarchy level number, which starts from 1 to 2 \(Figure 4 Figure 5 Fig. 5. Continuing from mrx clk pad i, MRxClk is traced VI. CONCLUSION In conclusion, the DEV is a foundational introduction of search engine in IC design and verification. As design complexity increases, design cycle period shortened, and SOC and SOPC products proliferate into the market, IC engineers could benefit from a search engine that aid in their work and in learning new or legacy designs. Many potential applications can be further derived from the search results hence adding its value. Future works include extending the algorithms to include concurrency using OpenMP API, implementing interpreter using AJAX and graphics engine using VOGLE API and adding support for other HDL \(VHDL, SystemVerilog and SystemC ACKNOWLEDGMENT The authors would like to thank C.F. Choo and N.K Chieng for providing experimental environment through multiple projects. The authors also thank ASIC designers, J.P Tan for giving constructive feedback and providing Control Block IP, T.S. Yeng for providing PCS IP, and G.S. Chong for providing DSP IP REFERENCES 1] P. Bricaud  IP reuse creation for system-on-chip design  in IEEE Proceedings on Custom Integrated Circuits, May 1999, pp. 395  401 2] IEEE Standard Verilog Language Reference Manual, IEEE Std. 13642005, 2006 3] S. Brin and L. Page  The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual web search engine  in Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on World Wide Web, April 1998, pp. 107  117 4] M. Hearst  Untangling text data mining  in Proceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 1999 pp. 3  10 5] M. Zaki and S. Tahar  Syntax code analysis and generation for verilog  IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering vol. 1, pp. 235  240, May 2003 6] M. Baca, Introduction to Metadata, 2nd ed. Los Angeles: Getty Research Institute, 2008 7] A. Assali and H. Zanghi  Automated metadata hierarchy derivation  Information and Communication Technologies, vol. 1, pp. 505  510 October 2006 8] M. Erlandsson et al. \(undated  Available: http://www.opencores.org/openrisc/?or1200 9] I. Mohor, Knguyen, and T. Markovic. \(2001 net MAC 10/100 Mbps: Overview. [Online]. Available 


net MAC 10/100 Mbps: Overview. [Online]. Available http://opencores.org/?do=project&amp;who=ethmac 416 pre></body></html 


faults However value faults both symmetric and asymmetric cannot be resolved without explicit mechanisms If we consider case 2 in which TCP may time out then  F i  b s a   Next lets consider the active fault descriptions If our authentication scheme is assumed to be uncompromisable then F i  b   otherwise it is F i  b s a   The interesting case in the example above is when authentication is compromised Value faults cannot be dealt with unless the authentication mechanism is implemented to provide redundancy levels of N  2 s 1 and N  3 a 1 for symmetric and asymmetric behavior respectively Note that in order to avoid common mode faults the redundant modules should be dissimilar In order to deal with symmetric faults one needs a simple majority of unaffected modules However asymmetric faults do not only require a higher degree of redundancy but also require that agreement algorithms be used These algorithms typically work in rounds of message exchanges The result is high message overhead in addition to the high component count However since in our example the imposed and active fault descriptions both contain s and a  there is no easy way around having to deal with these faults explicitly For the system designer the choices seem clear 1 one lives with the risk of authentication compromises or 2 one pays the cost of module and message overhead But how high is that cost This depends on how many faults of type s and a one wants to tolerate In addition common mode faults need to be addresses and thus the cost of dissimilar components needs to be considered Design Changes The advantage of working with imposed fault description is that it gives insight about what the infrastructure cannot inherently deal with This allows for adaptation that can bring signicant simplications to the application Consider the example above and assume that authentication may be compromised i.e assume that F i   F i  b s a   The largest challenge is to avoid having to deal with costly asymmetric faults However the infrastructure cannot tolerate such faults implicitly and thus explicit mechanisms such as agreement algorithms must be used Therefore lets consider what changes can be made to the infrastructure in order to avoid asymmetric faults With respect to networking this is actually quite simple As indicated before a broadcast environment cannot exhibit asymmetric behavior Therefore assume that point-to-point networking in authentication is eliminated and that broadcasting is used instead Under the broadcast paradigm every node can see the same messages so that Byzantine faults can be immediately detected Now  F i  b s   and thus the application can provide simple mechanisms to take advantage of the imposed tolerance to asymmetric faults Thus by observing the limitations of the imposed fault description an infrastructure-related change can make large improvements Adaptive Policies In the previous example the design of the authentication mechanism was motivated by low cost which resulted in an active model considering only benign faults If value faults are suspected then the high cost of dealing with value faults most signicantly asymmetric faults was required However in most applications the worse case behavior e.g broken authentication may be only of importance during times of high threat levels This suggest a security policy that is exible and sensitive to the threat level Such a policy would select the lowest overhead solution possible under a given threat level In our authentication example this could mean using the benign model under normal situations and augmenting value faults if the threat level is high Such gear shifting is not new and has been used in the context of agreement algorithms to reduce overhead Infrastructure Changes Lastly if the infrastructure used by functionalities f i changes then one should consider if these changes have implications on the imposed fault description If they do then perhaps one can take advantage of this change On the other hand it may mean that now the limitations of the infrastructure need to be compensated by more sophisticated solutions An example of such degeneration is when a network changes from a broadcast to a point-to-point communication primitive In all the cases above the careful analysis of F i and  F i should be undertaken Misjudging the fault model can render the application non-survivable 6 Conclusions A new view of fault models was presented that shifted away from the fault cause and instead focused on the effect of faults This allows for the use of fault models in the analysis of systems operating in hostile environments A general view of design for survivability was adopted This implied that the application and infrastructure were viewed in concert in order to determine which fault models they required and supplied By viewing a system as a collection of functionalities each functionality could be separately analyzed This simplied the determination of the active and imposed fault description which was then used to determine a mapping between what the application functionality required and what the infrastructure could or could not support In the latter case explicit solutions must be used to overcome the infrastructure induced limitations With respect to system analysis the functionality-based view of the system allowed exibility in the choice of hazard functions Rather than using one model for the entire system now each functionality can be analyzed using its appropriate hazard functions The exibility was then Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


extended to the time domain thus allowing to change the model over time in response to external changes References  A A vizienis et.al Fundamental Concepts of Dependability  Information Survivability Workshop ISW2000 Boston Massachusetts Oct 24-26 2000  M.H Azadmanesh and R.M Kieckhafer  Exploiting Omissive Faults in Synchronous Approximate Agreement  IEEE Trans Computers 49\(10 pp 1031-1042 Oct 2000  Bar No y  A D Dole v  C Dw ork and H R Strong Shifting Gears Changing Algorithms on the Fly to Expedite Byzantine Agreement  Information and Computation Vol 97 pp 205-233 1992  D  R  Cox Regression models and life tables  Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B Methodological Vol 34 No 2 pp 187-220 1972  S Elbaum and J Munson Intrusion Detection Through Dynamic Software Measurement  Proceedings of the Eighth USENIX Security Symposium 1999  R J Ellison D A Fisher  R  C  Linger  H  F  Lipson T  Longstaff and N R Mead Survivable Network Systems An Emerging Discipline  Technical Report CMU/SEI97-TR-013 November 1997 Revised May 1999  A Krings et al A Two-Layer Approach to Survivability of Networked Computing Systems  Proc International Conference on Advances in Infrastructure for Electronic Business Science and Education on the Internet SSGRR2001 LAquila Italy Aug 06 Aug 12 pp 1-12 2001  A Krings Survivable Systems  Chapter 5 in Information Assurance Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Yi Qian James Joshi David Tipper and Prashant Krishnamurthy Editors in press 2008  Ax el Krings Design for Survivability A Tradeoff Space  Proc 4th Cyber Security and Information Intelligence Research Workshop Oak Ridge National Laboratory May 12-14 2008  L Lamport et.al The Byzantine Generals Problem  ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems Vol 4 No 3 pp 382-401 July 1982  J.C Laprie editor  Dependability Basic Concepts and Terminology  Springer-Verlag 1992  Y  Liu and K S T r i v edi Survivability Quantication The Analytical Modeling Approach  International Journal of Performability Engineering Vol 2 No 1 Jan 2006 pp 29-44  Z.S Ma New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and Evolutionary Game Theory  Ph.D dissertation University of Idaho Computer Science Department 177pp 2008  Z.S Ma and A W  Krings Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management PHM  Proc IEEE AeroSpace Conference March 1-8 Big Sky MT 2008  Z.S Ma and A W  Krings Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability Survivability and Prognostics and Health Management PHM  Proc IEEE AeroSpace Conference March 1-8 Big Sky MT 2008  Z.S Ma and A W  Krings Multivariate Survival Analysis I Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling  Proc IEEE AeroSpace Conference March 1-8 Big Sky MT 2008  Z S Ma and A W  Krings Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and the Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs  to appear in The 11-th ACM International Symposium on Modeling Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems ACM MSWiM 2008 2008  T  Martinussen and T  H Scheik e Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data  Springer Verlag 466pp 2006  N R Mead R J Ellison R C Linger  T  Longstaf f and J McHugh Survivable Network Analysis Method  Technical Report CMU/SEI-2000-TR-013 Software Engineering Institute Carnegie Mellon 2000  P  Thambidurai and Y K P ark Interactive Consistency with Multiple Failure Modes  Proc 7th Symp on Reliable Distributed Systems Columbus OH pp 93100 Oct 1988  T  Therneau and P  Grambsch Modeling Survival Data Extending the Cox Model  Springer Verlag 2000  Jay J W ylie et.al Selecting the Right Data Distribution Scheme for a Survivable Storage System  Technical Report CMU-CS-01-120 Carnegie Mellon University May 2001 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


themselves the role of ?facilitator? to involve a wide range of stakeholders had been important for Mayo?s cultural focus on continuous improvement. In particular, taking a ?bottom up? approach to allowing interested practitioners to get involved had helped to gain additional stakeholder involvement  4.2.3. Governance Level Findings  Use of Contracts ? Within the Rochester, MN area, the Mayo Clinic controls almost the entire endto-end provision of service, from 911 medical phone calls, to air or ground ambulance response, to trauma care.  Outside of the Rochester area there is mixed control including first responders as well as subcontracted and volunteer ambulance providers.  As such, the larger, regional emergency medical services EMS throughout the United States, constructed of many different, loosely coupled, and sometimes competing organizations. When outside the boundaries of control, the Mayo Clinic is faced with the financial and technical aspects related to inter-organizational information sharing and the need for contracts to enforce service performance levels. End user participants discussed the importance of these contracts for ensuring information exchange across provider organizations Non-contract information sharing ? Networks of cooperating and collaborating organizations outside of the Mayo system have been established for the purpose of infusing the Mayo Clinic?s philosophy of high quality patient care. Information sharing and service cooperation often takes place without formal binding contracts in place. This is often at the expense of the Mayo Clinic. But the organizational philosophy is that care provision at the Clinic will be enhanced if inter-connected care providers work like they do ? with a focus on quality patient care  4.3. State Level Stakeholder Focus Group and Evaluation  While the local level case study provided valuable insight, researchers also sought to understand practitioner perspectives from the State level including how crash, EMS, and trauma information is currently being integrated and utilized in the State of Minnesota and challenges and benefits to further integration. Moreover, the discussion focused on how to conceptualize the ?next-generation? system that would not only facilitate the analysis of large archival data sets, but also allow for more real-time analysis Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 from a clinical standpoint. A series of 2 focus group discussions and 3 follow-on interviews were conducted with 16 state level Agency decision makers. Participants represented the following organizations: Emergency Medical Services Regulatory Board \(EMSRB State Trauma System and State Trauma Advisory Council Intelligent Transportation Systems Program and Office of Traffic Safety Traffic Safety  4.3.1 Summary of State Level Focus Group and Interview Findings  Participants discussed that in order for a complete end-to-end view of patient and incident information 


end-to-end view of patient and incident information to provide value to a wide range of consumers, there would need to be data assimilated from a wide range of existing organizations and information systems These data sources would include: telematics providers \(data from automatic crash notification systems ambulance providers, emergency departments trauma centers, public health \(e.g., rehabilitation databases e.g., crash analysis reporting systems e.g., traffic management systems illustrated in Figure 6 Participants discussed operational challenges to achieving this vision, including several data collection issues. For example, there is a lack of state level information collection policies. Paramedics also experience difficulty inputting data due to their need to focus on patient care in time-critical situations The lack of wireless infrastructure can often poses system connectivity problems as well. As such, and to the dissatisfaction of physicians, the electronic incident report from the paramedic is typically received well after a patient has arrived to the ED While many obstacles were discussed, participants agreed that there exists substantial motivation to progress towards a more open, standardized integrated, yet secure and private, information sharing environment. Potential benefits discussed included reducing emergency response times improving decision making capacities, improving patient care, reducing crashes, improving emergency response management capabilities, and reducing disability consequences, fatalities, and associated costs across the State For the purpose of research, participants agreed to share data for the advancement of a ?proof of concept? project. Furthermore, participants supported a research oriented and multi-phased approach understanding the magnitude of such an undertaking and long-term vision of integrated data sharing across the State.  Participants noted the research approach should include stakeholders from across the full spectrum of crash and emergency response organizations, integrate with existing state policy programs, such as the ?Toward Zero Deaths program \(a statewide cooperative to reduce annual traffic fatalities to zero of physicians to provide a ?clinical? perspective on data sharing, and take a multi-phased approach to development beginning with architecture development, prototype creation and testing, and demonstration of a ?proof of concept? as an example of the eventual larger imlementation In sum, focus group participants validated case study findings in terms of issues, challenges and potential solutions for constructing a patient focused end-to-end trauma information system  5. The Need for an Integrated Crash Trauma Information Network \(ICTN  Taking the literature review and Minnesota case study work together, findings indicated the need for a more integrated, clinician focused enterprise model for information system design and data sharing Figures 5 and 6 illustrate an overview of the Integrated Crash Trauma Information Network ICTIN account key features that would be included in the system design. This concept is discussed below 1. At the top level of Figure 5, there are a number 


of end-to-end operational process considerations to provide emergency medical care as seen through the eyes and experience of a patient. The top level of this diagram represents a linear work flow of a patient from emergency notification \(e.g., ACN, 911 phone call provision, and arrival and definitive care provision at an emergency department and/or trauma center Based on findings, emergency responder processes may be viewed as dynamic or sequential. But the sequential representation is meant to take into account the patient experience, an important system design characteristic as described by Schooley and Horan [18 2. As shown in the second level \(from the top Figure 5, a multi-organizational view of the system architecture is an essential consideration for the ICTIN concept. As described throughout this paper and illustrated in Figure 6, many organizations are involved in emergency response activities, from emergency notification through care provision. Many other practitioners and organizations are involved in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 crash analysis, public health research, patient outcome research, and other analyses. Therefore, the architecture needs to accommodate the information and data needs of a wide variety of organizations including authorized access to information, while maintaining the privacy and security of patient information. Fortunately, the technology exists to enable these software quality attributes.  How to implement such attributes in a complex large-scale environment is a challenge yet to be resolved 3. Dynamic information sharing considerations are represented on the third and fourth levels of Figure 5 From this analysis, and prior research, a number of information types, or taxonomies, are captured analyzed, and distributed across EMS organizational actors and hardware and software systems. The view represented here is one that would allow for information to be fully utilized by authorized emergency responders \(and information systems downstream? points of an emergency response episode. For example, rather than waiting for a paramedic to click the ?submit report? button of an electronic patient care record, patient information would be dynamically \(and incrementally physicians at a receiving ED or trauma center. To enable such open systems, web services and related information architecture standards would need to be implemented across organizations and information systems so that both ?push? and ?pull? functionality could exist for any and all authorized users 4. End-to-end performance reporting capabilities across organizations and information systems are also enabled through such an architecture. The ability to pull any number of data elements not  Figure 5. Information Coordination across the Emergency Response Process  only benefits real-time clinical decision making, but would also allow for the creation of customized reports for real-time monitoring \(e.g., dashboards retrospective research and analysis. The idea here is that performance analysis becomes a system design consideration at the outset, as opposed to taking the traditional approach of constructing performance reports after the system has been built. As shown in Figure 6, reporting and analytics would be a key component of the ICTIN 5. Additional enterprise architecture characteristics 


5. Additional enterprise architecture characteristics are illustrated in Figure 6. Though alluded to in the above discussion, these include a. Security/Privacy: A standard suite of network software, and data security measures would be implemented to ensure safe transport of patient information in accordance with State and National privacy guidelines and laws Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 b. Patient tracking system: In order to accurately identify data from one system to another, there must be a common data identifier that could associate data with a patient, including vehicle, incident, medical information, care provision, receiving hospital medications administered, dispatched emergency resources, time of phone call, etc. The data would all be linked back to the patient for real-time and retrospective analysis. A patient tracking system would facilitate this core function of the ICTIN c. Directory and Access Services: This would be one or several secure databases that include a listing of all authorized organizations and individuals allowed to access ICTIN information. Individuals would register,,be approved by the managing organization, and then allowed access to certain information based on the information access policies prescribed by the managing body. The directory is controlled by a managing entity to be determined by the network stakeholders  5.1. Directions for Subsequent Phases  While there exists a need for an integrated crash trauma information network \(CTIN a paucity of guidance, literature, and directions on how to achieve such a complex system implementation.  As confirmed by the local and state focus group discussions in Minnesota, further exploration into the potential and feasibility of developing an integrated crash trauma information network would provide an innovative advancement from both a research and practice perspective. More specific recommendations for taking a phased and incremental research approach to move the concept forward are discussed below In our phased approach, several methods are being employed.  A first task would be to validate the Minnesota case studies by conducting a comparative case study review in another state. Findings from a cross-case comparison would be used to outline the parameters for an initial prototype of the integrated crash information system. The prototype would be a simplified ?sample? system to provide a ?proof of concept? and illustrate how crash information could be shared from the moment of impact, through emergency dispatch and response, and then into the emergency room and health treatment services. A key component of this prototype will be the integration of data around the patient. Our straw man system CrashHelp series of interviews and focus groups with significant stakeholders in the process, including departments of transportation, public safety, 911, emergency services, and healthcare. Small data sets from crash EMS, health information systems would be collected and used to develop and populate the prototype to demonstrate its utility for safety decision support and planning purposes.  Feedback analysis from policymakers, planners, public health, EMS, safety engineers, emergency planners and citizens will focus on operational, organizational, and policy 


on operational, organizational, and policy deployment challenges surrounding an enhanced EMS system, including possible benefits from its utilization  Figure 6. Organizations and Integrated Crash Trauma Information Network Services  6. Expected Benefits &amp; Conclusion  The Trauma network would organize the information around the patient, providing a user/consumer centric approach to information design and use. In doing so, the trauma network would extend current EMS systems to include a greater range of information, including information that has been requested by emergency room physicians but often not available. This information is expected to improve not only the timeliness, but also the quality of the emergency response and improve patient care An end-to-end trauma network would allow for more holistic data analysis that can be both visualized and conducted in real-time. Just as private sector operations have achieved benefits through integrated customer systems \(e.g., CRM apply to the victim of a trauma. In this case, the issue is not just better customer service but fundamental issues of life and death  8. References  1] NHTSA, Emergency Medical Services: 24/7 Care Everywhere: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 2] NHTSA, "Fatality Analysis Reporting System." vol 2008: National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, 2008 3] D. Trunkey, "Trauma," Scientific American, vol. 249 pp. 28-35, 1983 4] D. C. Grossman, Kim, A., Macdonald, S.C., Klein, P Copass, M.K., Maier, R.V, "Urban-rural differences in prehospital care of major trauma," The Journal of Trauma vol. 42, pp. 723-729, 1997 5] B. Schooley, T. Horan, and M. Marich, "User Perspectives on the Minnesota Inter-organizational Mayday Information System," in AMIS Monograph Series: Volume on Information Systems for Emergency Management, Van De Valle and Turoff, Eds.: IDEA Press, 2008 6] J. Peters, Hall, B., "Assessment of ambulance response performance using a geographic information system Social Science and Medicine, vol. 49, pp. 1551-1566, 1999 7] M. Jason S. Shapiro, c, Joseph Kannry, MDb, Andre W Kushnirukd, Gilad Kuperman, MD, PhDa,e "Emergency Physicians? Perceptions of Health Information Exchange pp. 700-705, 2007 8] G. Mears, J. Ornato, and D. Dawson, "Emergency Medical Services Information Systems and A Future EMS National Database," in Turtle Creek Conference III, Dallas TX, 2001 9] T.A. Horan and B. Schooley, "Time-critical information services," Commun. ACM, vol. 50, pp. 73-78, 2007 10] Joint Advisory Committee on Communications Capabilities of Emergency Medical and Public Health Care Facilities \(JAC February 4, 2008 2008 11] M. Turoff, Chumer, M., Van de Walle, B., Yao, X The Design of a Dynamic Emergency Response Management Information System \(DERMIS Information Technology Theory and Application December 25, 2003 2004 


December 25, 2003 2004 12] S. Sawyer, Tapia, A., Pesheck, L., and Davenport, J Mobility and the First Responder," Communications of the ACM, vol. 47, pp. 61-64, 2004 13] Institute of Medicine \(IOM Services: At the Crossroads," National Academy Press Washington, D.C. 2006 14] M. T. D. Ye K, Knott JC, Dent A, MacBean CE Handover in the emergency department: Deficiencies and adverse effects.," Emergency Medicine Australasia, vol. 19 pp. 433-41, 2007 15] T. Taylor, "Information management in the emergency department," Emerg Med Clin North Am, vol. 22, pp. 24157, 2004 16] A. Andrew Stiell, Ian G. Stiell and Carl van Walraven Prevalence of information gaps in the emergency department and the effect on patient outcomes " Canadian Medical Association, p. 169, November 11th 2003 17] T. A. Horan and B. L. Schooley, "Time-Critical Information Services," Communications of the ACM, vol 50, pp. 73-78, 2007 18] B. Schooley and T. Horan, "End-to-End Enterprise Performance Management in the Public Sector through Inter-organizational Information Integration," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 24, pp. 755-784, 2007 19] P. Kensaku Kawamoto, and David F. Lobach, MD PhD, MS2 "Proposal for Fulfilling Strategic Objectives of the U.S. Roadmap for National Action on Decision Support through a Service-oriented Architecture Leveraging HL7 Services," in American Medical Informatics Association vol. 14: American Medical Informatics Association 2007 pp. 146-155 20] J. Salinas, McManus, J., Convertino, V., Holcomb, J Hospital Data Warehousing System for Mining of Patient Data," in Ninth IASTED International Conference Software Engineering and Applications, Phoenix, AZ, 2005, pp. 1318 21] L. Carver, Turoff, M., "Human-Computer Interaction The Human and Computer as a Team in Emergency Management Information Systems," Communications of the ACM, vol. 50, pp. 33-38, 2007 22] Battelle Company, "Evaluation of the MAYDAY/9-11 Field Operational Test," Battelle, Maryland July 19, 2006 2006 23] W. M. Evanco, "The potential impact of rural mayday systems on vehicular crash fatalities," Accident Analysis &amp Prevention, vol. 31, pp. 455-462, 1999 24] NHTSA, "Crash Outcome Data Evaluation Systems CODES 2008 25] D. E. Clark and B. M. Cushing, "Predicted effect of automatic crash notification on traffic mortality," Accident Analysis &amp; Prevention, vol. 34, pp. 507-513, 2002 26] NHTSA, "Next Generation 9-1-1 System Concept of Operations \(NG911 ConOps Ed., 2005 27] D. N. Hatfield, "A Report on Technical and Operational Issues Impacting The Provision of Wireless Enhanced 911 Services," Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 2002 28] L. K. Moore, "An Emergency Communications Safety Net: Integrating 911 and Other Services," Congressional Research Service, Washington, D.C. Feb 28, 2008 29] I. o. M. \(IOM crossroads. Washington, DC: National Academy Press 2006 30] N. E. N. A. \(NENA effectiveness, accessibility and future of America's 9-1-1 service. Columbus, Ohio: The RCN Commission and National Emergency Number Association, 2001 31] NEMSIS, "National EMS Information System Helping Unify EMS Data," 2008 


Helping Unify EMS Data," 2008 32] N. Mann, K. Guice, L. Cassidy, D. Wright, J. Koury Are Statewide Trauma Registries Comparable? Reaching for a National Trauma Dataset," Society for Academic Emergency Medicine, vol. 13, pp. 946-953, 2006 33] R. Fantus, Fildes, J., "Deposit the Bull's-eye," Bulletin of the American College of Surgeons, vol. 91, p. 2, 2006 34] B. Schooley, M. Marich, and T. Horan, "Devising an architecture for time-critical information services: interorganizational performance data components for emergency medical service \(EMS 8th annual international conference on Digital government research: bridging disciplines \\&amp; domains Philadelphia Pennsylvania: Digital Government Research Center, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 21] T.A. Pardo, H.J. Scholl., ?Walking Atop the Cliffs Avoid Failure and Reducing Risk in Large Scale EGovernment Projects, Proceeding of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences-2002, IEEE Computer Society  22] T. L. Dinh and T.H. Le, ?Toward an Approach for Modeling Interoperability of Information Systems?, IEEE Research, Innovation and Vision for the Future, March 5 2007, pp.22-28  23] UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical Specification, Part 8 of the ebXML Framework, Version 2.01, Retrieved January 25, 2007 from http://www.unece.org/cefact/ebxml/CCTS_V2-01_Final.pdf  24] UN/CEFACT, ?UN/CEFACT Modeling Methodology UMM  25] UN/CEFACT ?Recommendation 34 Data Simplification and Standardization for International Trade?, Working DraftVersion 6.0, May 21, 2008 26]   UN/CEFACT ?XML Naming and Design Rules \(XML NDR   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





