The Multi-Tenant Data Architecture Design for the Collaboration Service System of Textile & Apparel Supply Chain Xiao Feng Wang, Ping Jun Dong School of Business and Management Donghua University Shanghai, China, 200051 xfwang@dhu.edu.cn, dpj2000@dhu.edu.cn   Abstract 227Multi-tenant technology is one of key competencies for Software as a Service \(SaaS\hieve higher profit margin by leveraging the economic scale. In China, there are a number of textile & apparel OEM enterprises, but due to the lower valueadded products, they can not invest on information platform with very big budget. A 
 collaboration service system supporting multiple tenants can significantly reduce cost of customization deployment and operation of a great number of textile & apparel enterprises This paper designs and implements a collaboration service system for textile & apparel supply chain. In this system, all tenants share the same infrastructure and application instance However, from the user experience, the tenant would naturally dedicate to access and use the service as if there were dedicated ones. Therefore a cost-effective and secure multi-tenant infrastructure, especially in data access architecture, should be 
carefully considered. We analyze the key implementation patterns of data access multi-tenancy on aspects of isolation security and customization. Furthermore the detailed access control flow is demonstrated Keywords - multi-tenant; SaaS; textile & apparel; supply chain isolation; security I   I NTRODUCTION  China is the one of the biggest textile & apparel country in the world, the textile & apparel is playing an important role in the national economy, it\222s a key driver to push the economy growth. Chinese enterprises have the advantage in raw 
materials, labor resources, but they are still staying the lower level in the global textile & apparel supply chain and have no big advantage on the global competition. The enterprises are facing the great challenges on market competition and internationalization requirement, supply chain management is the  unavoidable strategic trend for enterprises development 1,2  B u t  d u e to th e  l o w e r v a lu ead d e d p r o d u c ts in  th ese  enterprises, they can not invest on information platform with very big budget, the application system based on Software as a Service \(SaaS\ is a realistic approach [3,4  SaaS is a kind of brand-new software application style 
provided by internet, the enterprises needn\222t purchase, build and maintain the hardware and the software [5 Sa aS p r o v i d ers  usually develop or acquire software applications and host them as services to serve specific needs of their clients [6  To m a k e  the service more profitable and more attractive provided to their clients, especially the Small and Medium Business \(SMB clients, the service providers have strong demands for multitenancy enabled software applications and the associated hosting operations. In a multi-tenant enabled service environment, user requests from different organizations and companies \(tenants\ are served concurrently by one or more 
hosted application instances based on the shared hardware and software infrastructure [7,8   T h e m u ltiten a n t a p p r o a ch  can  bring in a lot of benefits including improved profit margin for service provider through  reduced delivery costs and decreased service subscription costs for clients Donghua University worked with IBM China research lab together, designed and realized a textile & apparel supply chain collaboration service system based on SaaS mode. This platform is providing the native multi-tenant pattern, which has the potential of supporting over thousands of SMB clients 
simultaneously; this system is constructive for the textile apparel enterprises to improve their global market competition capability The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 proposes the collaboration service system architecture for textile & apparel supply chain based on SaaS. Section 3 analyses all kinds of data access multi-tenant design patterns from the aspects of resource isolation, security and customization. Section 4 describes the access control flows based on the above data architecture. Finally, section 5 concludes this paper and outlines future works II  C OLLABORATION SERVICE SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE FOR 
TEXTILE  APPAREL SUPPLY CHAIN  In this section, we propose the collaboration service system architecture for textile & apparel supply chain \(Figure 1\. The objective is to provide a virtual supply chain management and service platform which is cost-effective, secure, flexible, quickresponse, dynamic alliance oriented, business integration supported 978-1-4244-3693-4/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 


igure 1 Collaboration service system architecture for textile & apparel supply chain A  Main Business Services of the System The collaboration service system is mainly to serve the SMB tenants who care typically about the costs without significant loss in utilizing the applications in general. In the multi-tenant enabled service environment, users’ requests from different organizations and companies \(tenants\ are satisfied concurrently by one or more hosted application instances and database based on a scalable, shared hardware and software infrastructure. Tenants can not only subscribe the service but also they can deliver the application systems like CAD, CAM CAPP, or the newly developed service into the textile apparel supply chain collaboration service system by Web, and with SOAP format. It consists of 5 main business services UDDI linker, base service, collaborative commerce, decision support service and platform operation service 1. The service provider can register the newly defined service into UDDI registration center. To support this function this system contain the UDDI linker which link with standard UDDI registration center. The service demander  can find service in the registration center by UDDI linker, and request the application service which is linked with Web  2. The supply chain management basic service consists of sales management, purchase management, stock management production management, and logistics management, every functional model is focusing on the main business process in textile & apparel enterprises, to provide the services to stores/clients, wholesaler/retailer, merchant/middleman manufacturer, raw material suppliers and logistics suppliers 3. Collaborative commerce means that the enterprises turn their key focus from arranging inside resources well to virtual enterprises resources [9,10  To c o m b in e th e all s u p p li ers   partners, clients, retailers for all enterprises, form a whole inter-cooperation production and retailing plan. Collaboration business is a senior style of electronic business, it mainly provides service to upstream enterprises and downstream ones in the supply chain, including requirement sharing and requirement analysis, business process management and standard establishment, virtual supply chain design and dynamic alliance building. The basic information service in platform is helping the every involved enterprise to realize their profit growth, and collaboration business really links the all enterprises in this platform, and forms a close cooperation value community. This community consists of brand owner raw material suppliers, apparel manufacturer, retailers, logistics service providers and clients, to realize the information sharing and business integration, the brand owner is a core enterprise, it works with suppliers and partners closely and builds a dynamic and effective business running model, so quickly respond the clients’ requirements 4. The decision support service of the platform is taking the Web as the carrier, takes advantage of the shared decision    Business Process CAD / CAM Enterprise Applications Web Service Encapsulation Interface CAPP Base Service UDDI Linker Operation Service Collaborative Commerce Decision Support SOAP Message UDDI Register Center DB Windows Server Tenant A   Tenant B   Tenant C      Business Server Layer Multi-Tenancy Data Access Layer  Resource Isolation Security Isolation Customization Scalability Collaboration service system for textile & apparel supply chain  


resources like data, model and knowledge to solve all kinds of decision issues, provides the operation and decision support to the enterprises, including demand analysis and forecast, stock optimization decision, production planning optimization production schedule optimization, logistics network design vehicle schedule optimization, consumer satisfaction analysis and so on 5. The platform operation service mainly provides the support to the future normal running, including providing flexible service option \(SCM trusteeship and application tenancy\, service delivery process management, service performance appraisal, service groupware management, service running platform monitor and so on B  Components of Multi-tenancy Data Access Layer  We should support application level isolation among different tenants. In a multi-tenant system, all tenants essentially share the same infrastructure and application instance. However, from the user experience, the tenant would naturally desire to access and use the service as if there were dedicated ones. Therefore a cost-effective and secure multitenant infrastructure, especially in data access architecture should be carefully considered [11  Mu ltit e n a n t  in f r a stru ctu r e  should take care  of the following key aspects 1\ource Isolation: Separate the resources allocation and usage among tenants 2\ Security: Prevent invalid resources access and potential malicious attack 3\ Customization: Support tenant-specific features or Service Level Agreement \(SLA\ through configurations 4\ Salability: Scale the SaaS application’s delivery infrastructure to support growing number of tenants with well managed cost increase, performance and availability guarantee III  D ESIGN P ATTERNS OF M ULTI TENANCY DATA L AYER  A  Resource Isolation patterns In the data layer, data isolation for a multi-tenant application adopts totally shared \(Share table/schema pattern multiple tenants share same database, and share same tables/schema. The implementation pattern is as shown in figure 2  Figure 2. Shared table/schema pattern Records of all tenants are stored in a single shared table sets mixed in any order, in which a TenantID column is inserted in each table to associate the data records with the corresponding tenants B  Security Patterns This section focuses on the data security isolation among tenants, which is also described as “preventing a user from getting the privileges to access data belonging to other tenants It aims to safeguard the security of each tenant at comparable security levels as those of the traditional single-tenant system Implicit filter-based pattern is adopted \(figure 3\. Through adding the application level filter into each user request of tenant, the data of a tenant can be ensured to be accessed only by the tenant itself. For shared table/schema isolation pattern the filter is based on the TenantID column in every table to access records associated with the appropriate tenant, e.g modifying a SQL statement with where clause TenantID=XXX  Figure 3 Implicit filter based pattern C  Customization Patterns In data customization aspect, for the share table/schema isolation pattern, because of the sharing of schema, it can only support data field extension, which flexibility degree is usually measured by the maximal number of extension fields. The implementation Extension sub-table pattern is in figure 4 Main shared table TenantID PorderID  RecordID TenantA P010001  0001 TenantB P010002  0002 TenantC P020001  0003 Extension table   Extension Definition table RecordID ExtensionID  ExtensionID Name Type 0001 Ex0001  Ex0001 Address String 0001 Ex0002 Ex0002 Email String 0002 Ex0001    Figure 4 extension sub-table pattern A sub table, which associates with the main table via the record id column, is built to store all the extended fields of the records in main table. This approach is very flexible. It does not have limitation in the maximal number of the extended Request Data  UI and Biz Logic Tenant A Tenant B Tenant C Tenant A Tenant B Data Access Layer Request Data  Add tenant-oriented filter  Tenant A Tenant B Tenant C 


fields. However, it may suffer from poor performance caused by joint-search IV  ACCESS  CONTROL FLOW BASED ON THE MULITI TENANT  Based on the above multi-tenant data design mode, the middle-small size textile & apparel enterprises can subscribe the service as a tenant administrator, involve into the virtual  supply chain system, communicate with upstream and downstream enterprises in whole supply chain. Tenant administrator can administrate their own enterprise user in a self-service mode. When the users log on the system, the platform can identify the TenantID & Type, so can ensure the legal access. The detailed access control flow is as figure 5  Figure 5 Multi-tenant Authentication flow The multi-tenant platform data access includes the next 4 steps Step 1: Get the TenantID and Type from the login information Step 2: Utilize TenantID and Type to modify JDBC, that is to revise the SQL statements and add the terms to simply programme so that there is no need to think about multi-Tenant issue Step 3: Use Web Application Stress \(WAS\ tool to validate the system, to get the validated user information and store them into WAS security topic Step 4: Get the user access information from WAS Security by the interface TenantUti class, including TenantID, Type and UserID After complete the above validation process, the member enterprise in virtual supply chain can deposit and withdraw the data no matter from their own enterprises or the cross enterprises, but they just can get the authorized data V  C ONCLUSION  The paper designs and implements a supply chain collaboration service system based on SaaS mode for middlesmall size textile & apparel enterprises, and demonstrates the data access layer from the aspects of resource isolation security and customization to ensure the security of multitenant platform user access information. The objective is to develop the collaboration service technology for middle-small size textile & apparel enterprises, to support the digital management and electronic business, and provide the suggestion to Chinese textile & apparel supply chain research and implementation A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 70772073 and the Natural Science Foundation of Shanghai City of China under Grant No. 07ZR14003 R EFERENCES  1  Bruce M, Daly L , Towers N. “A solution for supply chain management in the textiles and clothing industry “. International Journal of Operations & Production Management, 2004, vol.24, pp.151 - 170 2  Doris H K, Dianna V. “Implementation of technology and relationships to supply chain performance : apparel manufacturers’perspectives”. The International Review of Retail , Distribution and Consumer Research 2001, vol.11, pp.301-327  3  Adolfo Crespo Marquez, Carmine Bianchi,Jatinder N.D. Gupta Operational and financial effectiveness of e-collaboration tools in supply chain integration”. European Journal of Operational Research 2004 000Y\000R\000O 159, pp. 348–363 4  Application Service Provider - A new way of software application delivery”, Chaotic I, 2002 5  B Waters, “Software as a service: A look at the customer benefits Journal of Digital Asset Management, Volume 1, Number 1, 1, Palgrave Macmillan, January 2005 6  CJ Guo, W Sun, Y Huang, ZH Wang, B Gao, “A Framework for Native Multi-Tenancy Application Development and Management”, The 9th IEEE International Conference on E-Commerce Technology and the 4th IEEE International Conference on Enterprise Computing, E-Commerce and EServices, 2007. CEC/EEE 2007. 23-26 July 2007 7  Chang-Hao Tsai, Yaoping Ruan, Sambit Sahu, Anees Shaikh and Kang G. Shin, “Virtualization-Based Techniques for Enabling Multi-tenant Management Tools”, September 2007 8  Dean Jacobs, Stefan Aulbach, “Ruminations on Multi-Tenant Databases”, Technische Universität München, Institut für Informatik Germany, 2007 9  A. Gunasekaran, E.W.T. Ngai. “Information systems in supply chain integration and management”. European Journal of Operational Research, 2004 000Y\000R\000O\000\021 159, pp.269–295   Manthou V, V lachopoulou M, Folinas D. “Virtuale-Chain model for supply chain collaboration “. Production Economics,2004, vol..87 pp.241-250   ZH Wang, CJ Guo, B Gao,W Sun,Z Zhang,” A Study and Performance Evaluation of the Multi-Tenant Data Tier Design Patterns for Service Oriented Computing”,IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering,2008.pp94-101    WAS Security Form Authent ication TenantID IBM  UserID User1  Password   T yp e Brander  Lo g in Pa g e WAS Login User Registry Service Registry DB TenantUti Class 


  5 225  Received messages parsed & stored in a SQL database 4  Consume Protocol Diagnostic Messages \(BSRs 225  BSRs transmitted from ION nodes to EOC software via the ION stack 225  Received messages parsed & stored in a SQL database 5  EOC Bundle Network Configured / Monitored With GUI 225  BSRs transmitted from ION nodes to EOC software via the ION stack 225  Received messages parsed & stored in a SQL database 225  Messages displayed through the GUI in real time The EOC generated and receive d the test communications traffic as well as \223out-of-DTN band\224 command and control traffic of the DTN experiment, stored DTN flight test information in a database, provided display systems for monitoring DTN operations status and statistics \(e.g bundle throughput\ed query and analyses of the data collected The DINET EOC was located within the JPL Protocol Technology Lab \(PTL\ The PTL provides connectivity to other NASA centers and external entities, and is itself a node in the larger DTN Experiment Network \(DEN DINET EOC is envisioned to become a general tool in this broader context of experimental testing of DTN across a geographically dispersed user community.  Figure 3 shows the PTL  Figure 3 \226 Protocol Technology Lab The EOC played the role of exercising the data exchange and monitoring the delivery status among all end nodes Three machines in PTL were designated to simulate the end nodes \(\223Earth\224, \223Mars\224 and \223Phobos\224\ishing and subscribing to data using the AMS \(Asynchronous Message System\protocol over the ION network, where the data rate, DTN priority, and other transmission statistics were involved in the simulation and analysis.  Another three machines in the PTL were used to simulate the routers in the space regions located between the end nodes and the ground systems.  A seventh machine and two large screens in the PTL were employed as the administrative node and the visualization system to m onitor and analyze the data delivery status and statistics for the DINET experiment The execution of the Monitor and Control system in the administrative node helps researchers perform more informative and useful ION experiments.  Figure 4 shows the software architecture of Monitor and Control System and the relationship with other DINET elements 


  6  Figure 4 \226 DINET Structure and software for the administrative node  Software Modules of Monitor and Control System The Monitor and Control System is designed as a multi-tier client-server web application.  A middleware is used to service data requests between the user and the database This hierarchical structure ma kes the application extensible and distributive.  The framework of the Monitor and Control System in the EOC utilizes the technologies of Java,  JavaScript, AJAX, JSP \(JavaServer Page MySQL database to provide the means for the DTN network administrator to monitor ION data delivery and operational status effectively.  The devised infrastructure of the Monitor and Control system can be further extended to monitor the operation status, data transmission and the topology updates fo r other space mission simulations As shown in Figure 5, the Monitor and Control System in the EOC consists of four major executable pieces DINETLogProcessor, DINETAdm,  DINETQueryAdm, and DINETTopology.  DINETLogProce ssor sets up the TCP/IP socket connection to all simulated nodes to receive the ION status messages, parse and categorize the messages, and deposit the messages into the SQL database DINETLogProcessor also sends signals to DINETAdm via TCP/IP socket to inform of the arrival of status messages DINETTopology is a topology description generator which dynamically updates the network topology description in xml format based on the ION network configuration, which is initialized prior to missi on operations a nd updated during the course of the mission.  Similar to DINETLogProcessor DINETopology also notifies DINETAdm of any changes in the network topology via TCP/IP socket.  DINETAdm is a web-based graphic display system which updates the display of the network topology and the ION status messages in real time based on notices from both DINETLogProcessor and DINETTopology units DINETQueryAdm provides another web-based graphic display which interactively accep ts and responses to users\222 queries on ION status messages.  Under the four major executables, there are five libraries constructed to support several specific functions.  They are LibDatabase LibLogProcessor, LibSocket, LbLogProvide and LibTopology.  The functions of each library are described as follows 200  LibDatabase:  manipulate and interface to the database, including setting connections to the database, creating tables in the database, inserting data into tables, and querying table content 200  LibLogProcessor: build the database and tables for the experiment and parse, classify, and store messages in the database 200  LibSocket: set the socket on the server side and receive messages from remote clients 200  LibLogProvider: interface to LibDatabase Interpret the query issued from the application send the query to the database, and return the query result to the application 200  LibTopology: parse the topology description in xml format and draw the network topology with the use of a Java applet  


  7  Figure 5 \226Software modules of the Monitor and Control System Types of ION Status Messages The Monitor and Control Sy stem in the EOC received messages from all nodes in DINET during mission operations via TCP/IP socket and the ION stack.  The messages included ION softwa re status messages, ION Bundle Protocol status report messages, and publish/subscription messages.  All messages were formatted in consistent plain text style prior to arriving to the processing unit of the destination, i.e DINETLogProcessor at the administrative node of the EOC Bundle Protocol status reports were issued by all nodes in the network and sent to the administration node in the form of DTN bundles via the ION stack.  Bundles which contained the status reports were further logged into plain text format, as were other ION status messages.  Bundle status reports inform of the deletion of any undelivered bundle and the administrative node may choose to initiate some specific network mana gement action upon reception of the message.  ION software status messages were logged by all nodes and programmatically redirected to a mechanism enabling them to be transmitted to the administrative node via TCP/IP, not via the ION stack However, messages logged by the Deep Impact spacecraft were encapsulated in EVR telemetry packets.  As the ground system received these packets, it ex tracted the encapsulated log messages and re-transmitted the messages to the administrative node via TCP/IP socket connection ION status messages are of five general types: informational message, warning message, diagnostic message communication statistics message, and other status messages. Informational messages mainly inform the occurrence of events that ar e nominal but significant Warning messages inform of th e occurrence of events that are off-nominal but are likely due to configuration or operational error rather than software failure.  Diagnostic messages inform of the occurre nce of events that are offnominal and might be due to software errors.  A communication statistics message provides network performance statistics over a stat ed interval.  An \223other status message\224 is seen in response to specific operatorinitiated activity.  The publish/subscription messages denote the publish and subscription status from the end nodes involved in publish or subscription operations. All these status messages and statistics help the mission operations team keep abreast of the network data flow and experiment status Installation and Execution of the Monitor and Control System in the PTL In the PTL, the Monitor and Control software package is installed on a Linux workstation with two large screens which serves as the administrative node and visualization 


  8 system in EOC software devel opment.  One screen is used to display the main page of the Monitor and Control System GUI, and the other screen shows the GUI query page and xterm consoles of other nodes in the EOC.  Figure 6 is an example shot of the main GUI page. In the page, either an existing experiment name or a new experiment name is selected for executing operati ons.  There are 11 tables on the page which display live messages respectively received from DINET nodes.  The message display is started by selecting the \223start/update\224 button and temporarily paused by  selecting the \223Pause\224 button.  Moreover, all messages received and stored in the database can be dumped into a text file as the \223save\224 button is selected and a file name is entered. The top and middle of the page shows the network topology which is updated dynamically as the network connectivity changes  Figure 6 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI main page Figure 7 shows an example of the GUI query page.  In order to query the messages stored in the database, an experiment name is specified along with \(optionally\essage type message source node, number of messages, message creation time, and then the \223query\224 button is clicked.  The messages stored in the data which meet the query criterion are shown on the table of the query page, and those resultant messages can also be dumped into a text file by clicking the \223save\224 button and entering a file name.  The table content and topology display on both web GUI page are locally and dynamically updated without interfering with the display of the main page by the use of Ajax and Java servlet techniques 


  9 Figure 7 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI query page 4  DINET  R ESULTS  The Experiment Operations Center allowed real-time visibility into and analysis of DTN behavior in a deep space system during the DINET experiment.  With the results gathered from the operations cen ter software, an analysis was performed on the experime nt outcome characterizing the overall performance of DTN From a broad perspective, the experiment was a success in that it proved the ION software capable of space mission operation and raised the technology readiness level to that of a tested and flown software package.  The DTN concept proved capable of automatically re-transmitting missing or corrupt data without flight team intervention, specifically demonstrated during several small unplanned communications outages at DSN stations.  DTN management actions were requi red to update the ION clock aboard EPOXI on a semiweekly basis to compensate for a drifting spacecraft clock, as well as insert new routes after an unplanned power outage across the EOC network Experiment analysis yielded DTN performance benchmarks in link utilization, prioritizati on, node storage and routing For all passes with sufficient data in the transmission queue DINET maintained a link utilization rate over 90%, even when introducing artificial link errors by dropping approximately every 32 nd LTP segment.  Received data analysis confirmed that higher priority information maintained an advantage over lower priority information and also that this advantag e increased as link capacity diminished \(due to the artificial data loss on the link\.  The node storage utilization benc hmark provided proof that node storage usage stabilized over the course of the experiment, approaching steadystate.  An analysis of network traversal showed that data was efficiently moved through different paths as dictated by the ION routing algorithm when the network topology changed. This demonstrated the advantages of the routing automation afforded by the ION routing protocol 5  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper has briefly described the JPL Deep Impact Network \(DINET\ay/Disruption Networking \(DTN technology experiment, intended to increase the technical readiness DTN for space missions and supporting ground and space-based relay infrastruct ure.  This represents the first deep space implementation of DTN in flight and ground software, and paves the way for future space networks.  DINET demonstrated the Interplanetary Overlay Network \(ION\mplementation of DTN, which incorporates the Bundle Protocol and LTP retransmission protocol.  We have described the DINET Experiment Operations Center \(EOC its functions in accomplishing this experiment.  The DINET EOC starts all ION processes experiment data sources, stat us message receiver processes and display processes.  The ION-based Monitor and Control System is an innovative, intranet-based software application which receives status messages and displays live results from the DINET network.  With this Monitor and Control application, the ION software and protocol diagnostic messages issued by network nodes are collected, analyzed stored into a database in real-time.  This application also provides a web interface for viewing the data in real-time and for interactive database queries 6  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology and the Nationa l Aeronautics and Space Administration 


  10 R EFERENCES   Selected Areas in Com m unications, IEEE Journal on Volume 26, Issue 5, June 2008. The eight papers in this special issue focus on delay and disruption tolerant wireless communication   Draft  C C S DS SIS-DTN Green B ook v0.2 \(5 Sept em ber 2008 DTN/Draft%20Documents/SISDTN%20Green%20Book_v0.2.docx   V Cerf. et al., Delay To lerant Network Architecture IETF RFC 4838, informational, April 2007   Del a y Tol e rant  Net worki ng R e search Group \(DTNR G wiki: http://www.dtnrg.org/wiki/Home  S. Burleigh, \223Delay-Toler ant Networking for Space Flight Operations: Design and Development,\224 paper AIAA2008-3221, SpaceOps, 12-16 May 2008, Heidelberg Germany  K. Scot t and S B u rl ei gh 223B undl e Prot ocol  Speci fi cat i on,\224 RFC5050, experimental, November 2007   M  R a m a das S. B u rl ei gh, and S. Farrel l 223Li c kl i d er Transmission Protocol \226 Specification,\224 RFC 5326 experimental, September 2008  223Asy nchronous M e ssage Servi ce,\224 C C SDS Draft  Recommended Standard \(Red Book\CSDS 735.1-R-2 July 2008 


  11 B IOGRAPHY  J. Leigh Torgerson  leads  development and operation of spacecraft systems, with emphasis on end-to-end communications system technology.  He has over 25 years of experience in team management, aerospace system design, digital & RF electronic system integration and flight test.  He has been with Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1992, and is currently a member of the Communications Networks Group.  He obtained an M.S. in Aeronautical System Engineering from the University of West Florida, and an B.S. in Engineering, EE/CS emphasis from UCLA    Loren Clare  is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He obtained the Ph.D. in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983. His research interests include wireless communications protocols, self-organizing systems, network systems design, modeling and analysis, and distributed control systems. Prior to joining JPL in May 2000, he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center, where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks, satellite networking, and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation  Shin-Ywan \(Cindy  is a senior member of the Communications Networks Group at JPL. She has over 20 years experience in technology development system analysis, and software engineering in the fields of document image processing mission scenario and operation analysis, and telecommunications. Cindy\222s recent work supports the development of Monitor and Control Systems for DTN experiments, link budget analysis for the Constellation program\222s DSIL SCaN simulation/emulation and TFPC Telecom Forecaster Predictor C, and Remote Asynchronous Message Service \(RAMS\ for the AMS protocol.  She has a B.S. in Electronics Engineering from National ChiaoTung University, Taiwan, and M.S and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Irvine      Joshua Schoolcraft  is an engineer in the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He currently runs the Protocol Technology Laboratory and coordinates software configuration and development on projects involving protocol characterization and DTN He obtained a B.S. in electrical engineering and computer engineering \(with a CS minor\ from the University of Maine in 2005 and is currently a part-time graduate student in Aeronautical & Astronautical engineering at Stanford University  


  12  


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


