html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Operating  System Mechanisms for TPM-Based Lifetime Measurement of Process Integrity Xiao Li, Wenchang Shi, Zhaohui Liang, Bin Liang, Zhiyong Shan Key Laboratory ofData Engineering and Knowledge Engineering \(Renmin University ofEducation, Beijing 100872, China School ofIn/ormation, Renmin University ofChina, Beijing 100872, China wenchangshi@ieee. org Abstract Implementing runtime integrity measurement in an acceptable way is a big challenge. We tackle this challenge by developing a framework called Patos This paper discusses the design and implementation concepts of our operating system mechanisms for runtime process integrity measurement, which is an important part of the Patos framework and is named Patos-RIP. Patos-RIP is developed into the mainstream Linux operating system and utilizes TPM as hardware support for tamper-resistance. From the beginning a process is created to the moment the process dies, Patos-RIP conducts integrity measurement at appropriate points of time when the process runs, so as to ensure that the integrity of a process is not compromised during its whole lifetime This way, Patos-RIP can improve trustworthiness of processes by effectively detecting runtime tampering attacks on processes' integrity 1. Introduction In a computerized world, trustworthiness of a system depends heavily on integrity of system components, which is potentially threaten by myriad malicious sources, especially in an open, distributed networked environment Recently, pushed by motivations of building trusted computing ecosystems, considerable work has been undertaken in providing system integrity measurement However, much of this work still shows obvious limitations. Implementing runtime integrity measurement in an acceptable way is still a big challenge. Weare endeavoring to tackle this challenge by developing a framework called Patos \(Platform Architecture based on Trusted Operating System Introducing new functionality in the cost of demanding revolutionary change to legacy application 978-1-4244-5113-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 783 systems is impractical. The philosophy underlining Patos is to implement light-weight trust establishment mechanisms with effective compatibility for existing application This paper discusses the design and implementation concepts of our operating system mechanisms for runtime process integrity measurement, which is an important part of the Patos framework and is named Patos-RIP \(Runtime Integrity of Process developed into the main-stream Linux operating system and utilizes TPM \(Trusted Platform Module hardware support for tamper-resistance. From the beginning a process is created to the moment the process dies, Patos-RIP conducts integrity measurement at appropriate points of time when the process runs, so as to ensure that the integrity of a process is not compromised during its whole lifetime 2. System Architecture Overview Patos-RIP is devised to be an integral part of an operating system. It augments to the operating system functionality of measuring process integrity at runtime Briefly speaking, an architectural overview of PatosRIP can be depicted as Figure 1 The Patos-RIP architecture may be divided into three parts, namely Division-F, Division-N and 


three parts, namely Division-F, Division-N and Division-P, which will be explained in the following sub-section 2.1. Key Components Patos-RIP makes use of three repositories to hold information necessary for process integrity measurement. They are the OftBank \(Off-Line Integrity Characteristics Bank On-Line Integrity Characteristics Bank The OftBank stays in a trusted storage. It holds integrity characteristics of all executable images needs OffBank of executab le images Integrity characte ristics OffBank Management 1- ""Dh7si;';--;::- -1- - - - - - D";ision:N" - - - - - -1-DMsion-P-1 I I 1I I - - - - - - - - - -, I I t_:y~t:~:v:n~_J I II \\: ,' A;' i~itie; - -f1 I _'!.- ,. 1 I OnBank  1 I Integrity characteristics \\ Trigger  of processes ' ... ,, ' I 1'1 II - -;- - - I .. I 1 l  1 I / 1  Integrity Measurement ! Ir--..L...-......l I Mass Storage: I Trust Base 1: Images of I executable I TPM \(Truste d Platform Module _ _____ _ --J ---' _ Figure 1. An Architectural Overview of Patos-RIP to be monitored. The OnBank sits in main memory. It holds integrity characteristics of all processes needs to be measured in a system. The Mass Storage is usually a disk and is managed in the way of a file system. It holds images of all executable binary files from which processes are derived Division-F consists of the OffBank and the OffBank Management component. Processes to be measured live in Division-P. The Mass Storage used for processes creation is also located in Division-P Division-N is the core of the Patos-RIP. It contains the Integrity Measurement component, the Process Creation component, the OnBank Management component, as well as the Trust Base component. The Trust Base is the fundamental part of an operating system kernel that provides basic integrity measurement support. Of course, the OnBank also falls into this division Both Division-F and Division-N are dependent on the TPM hardware to ensure trusted functionality 2.2. Working Principles The main task of the Patos-RIP is to check a process' integrity whenever it is necessary after the process is born and before it dies. Systems events and processes' activities may trigger the Integrity Measurement component to work. When the Integrity Measurement component is working, it searches integrity characteristics for the process from the OnBank. If there is a hit, current integrity characteristics will be generated from the process on the fly. Then, the newly generated characteristics will be compared with those found from the OnBank. If they match, it is concluded that the process is in good integrity. Otherwise, it says that the integrity of the process has been compromised During the lifetime of a process, it is possible for the process to change its integrity characteristics legally. In this case, the OnBank must be updated to reflect the real integrity of a process correctly. It is the 


reflect the real integrity of a process correctly. It is the OnBank Management component that is responsible for the update of the OnBank. System events or a process' activities that are related to a change to integrity characteristics may trigger the OnBank Management component to fulfill this mission of update Initial integrity characteristics in the OnBank for a process are derived from information in the OftBank Information in the OftBank is of static integrity characteristics, while information in the OnBank is of dynamic integrity characteristics. Given an image of an executable binary file, the OffBank Management component can generate integrity characteristics for it If the image is trustworthy, integrity characteristics generated from it can be put into the OffBank In summary, the Patos-RIP carries out runtime process integrity measurement in the following way  As a pre-processing step, the OffBank Management component generates integrity characteristics for a given trusted executable image and save them into the OffBank  On creating a process, the Process Creation component sets up the process according the corresponding image in the Mass Storage and establishes its integrity characteristics in the OnBank based on information in the OftBank 784  Whenever it is necessary, the Integrity Measurement component measures the integrity of a process according to information obtained from the OnBank and generated from the process  Whenever it is necessary, the OnBank Management component update integrity characteristics in the OnBank for a given process  Hardware TPM functionality is used to help protecting the integrity of the OnBank and the OftBank 2.3. The Threat Model The main purpose of developing Patos-RIP is to fight against runtime attacks on process integrity While Patos tries to deal with integrity problems of a whole platform, Patos-RIP focuses on integrity of protected processes. It has its eyes on the behavior of any given process, so as to ensure that the process can keep good integrity during its whole lifecycle So long as a process is alive, Patos-RIP keeps checking its integrity at certain critical points of time Each time Patos-RIP performs checking, only when integrity criteria is well satisfied will it confirm that the process in question is in good integrity condition. No matter whether there are discrepancies between the integrity characteristics in the OnBank and those from the current process, or there is no corresponding entry in the OnBank for a given process, Patos-RIP will claim it an abnormal condition Therefore, the power of Patos-RIP is to determine if a pre-registered process is tampered with at runtime and to determine if a running process is a pre-defmed legal one 3. Integrity Measurement Mechanisms Integrity measurement mechanisms of Patos-RIP exist mainly in Division-N. They make use of the OftBank in Division-F and the Mass Storage in Division-P. The measurement targets of them are processes in Division-P 3.1. Integrity Characteristics of a Process The body of a process is a program, which is expressed as an executable binary image. A program consists of text and data. Each process has a context Not only the program but also the context has impact 


Not only the program but also the context has impact on the integrity of a process Patos-RIP regards the integrity of a process as the integrity of its program together with that of its context. It defmes integrity metric in term of cryptographic hash, or fmgerprint. As a consequence 785 integrity characteristics of a process comprise fingerprints of its program and its context, while integrity characteristics of a program include fingerprints of its text and its data In a Linux system, the most widely used format of executable files is ELF \(Executable and Linking Format generality at the same time, this paper only discusses ELF files, and it assumes that the Mass Storage is a disk managed with the ext2 filesystem By analyzing an ELF file, the OftBank Management component can figure out the text and the data of a program. Then, it collects fmgerprints of the text and the data for the program, and stores them in the OftBank. For each process whose integrity is to be monitored, a trusted copy of its program image should be provided to the OftBank Management component to collect fmgerprints. Each protected image file is assigned in the OftBank an entry that holds text fingerprints and data fmgerprints of the image. Each entry in the OftBank is identified by a unique Image Fingerprint Identity \(IFID file In addiction to image fingerprints, context fingerprints form an important part of a process fingerprints. All together, in the OnBank, image fingerprints and context fmgerprints of a process are held in an entry that is identified by a unique Process Fingerprint Identity \(PFID process is created, the Process Creation component copies the image fingerprint from the OftBank entry into the OnBank entry, and collects and fills the context fingerprint into the same OnBank entry The OnBank entry is used as the baseline for measuring the integrity of a process. The OnBank Management component is in charge of updating the OnBank entry of a process to reflect its real state 3.2. Measuring the integrity of a process Patos-RIP's mission of measuring the integrity of a process is fulfilled by the Integrity Measurement component. The moments in the lifecycle of a process for the Integrity Measurement component to measure the integrity of the process may be  When the process is born  When the process is to run its code \(text  When the process is to access its data  When the process is switched back to CPU either due to scheduling or interrupt The basic action taken to measure integrity is to compare the pertinent fingerprint retrieved from the OnBank entries with that collected at the moment Integrity measurement of text or data is carried out in the unit of page. One page a time. The fingerprint of OnBank Entry Figure 2, Layout of the Off-Line Bank Entry Offfi ank Entry IFIO  hCode_count  hData_count   hCad e-I 


hCad e-I hCade- 2   hCade-m hData-l hData-2  hData-n PFID sNumber hConte xt i hCode_count I I hData_count I I hCade-lI I I  I I I lrCode-m I I hData-II I I  I I hData-n Pages cPage- l cPage-2   cPage-m  dPage- I dPage-2  dPage-n  Offfi ank Entry Content Data  __...1 l:J  Executa ble File Figure 3, Layout of the On-Line Bank Entry Each executable file is given an IFID \(Image Fingerprint Identity is save in the IFID field of the OffBank entry The OnBank is devised as a table consisting of a serial of OnBank entries. The layout of an OnBank entry is expressed with Figure 3 From the perspective of what it holds, an OnBank entry is very much like an OffBank entry. The principal elements of an OnBank entry are fingerprints of Code and Data of a process, each of which corresponds to a page of Code or Data. Additionally an OnBank entry holds the fingerprint of the context of a process with a field named hContext Initially, fingerprints of Code and Data in an OnBank entry are copied from a correlated OffBank ELF Header 


Program Header Table Section- l   Section-k   Section Header Table 3.3. Fundamental of System Design The OffBank and the OnBank are two important repositories used as baseline for process integrity measurement in Patos-RIP. Among other things establishing and maintaining the OffBank and the OnBank are crucial work for Patos-RIP to do The OffBank is made up of a set of OffBank entries. The layout of an OffBank entry is described in Figure 2 For each executable file, one OffBank entry is created to record its integrity characteristics, namely fingerprints. Given a specific executable file, whose integrity needs to be measured at runtime, the OffBank Management component figures out its Text part and Data part. Both the Text part and the Data part are divided into fixed-length pages. The OffBank Management component computes the hash value of each page and save it into the OffBank entry. The i-th page of the Text part is signified as cPage-i, and the corresponding hash value as hCode-i. Similarly dPage-j for the j-th page of Data, and hData-j its hash value Suppose that the Text part is m pages long and the Data part is n pages long, in the OffBank entry, there will be m fmgerprints of Text and n fingerprints of Data correspondingly. The number of Text fingerprints is recorded with the hCode count field of the OffBank entry, and that of Data fingerprints the hData count field. text or data is collected from the main memory. When a page of text or data is loaded into memory, its integrity is checked. Only when the page of content passes the check successfully may the process go on working normally. Otherwise, Patos-RIP issues a warning that the process is not in a good integrity state Further action may be taken as necessary Context of a process is mainly defined by a set of registers holding information critical to the process Among others, ESP, EIP and CR3 are examples of important registers. Collecting context fmgerprint means combining the contents of these registers and computing cryptographic hash of the combined result It is not necessary to keep a fingerprint for every register. One fingerprint of a collective content for all registers is enough In response to scheduling or interrupt, the running of a process is suspended, and the process' context is saved. At a later time, when the process is to get running again, its context has to be restored. At this point of time, Patos-RIP checks the fingerprint of the context, in order to ensure that its integrity is not impaired in the interval of suspension of the process 786 entry when a process starts its life. When a process modifies some contents in a page legitimately, the pertinent fingerprint of the page will be updated Obviously, while an OftBank entry is static, an OnBank entry is dynamic in the sense of experiencing change during the lifetime of a process Since the OnBank is organized as a table, as an entry of a table, an OnBank entry is of fixed-length The number of fields in an OnBank entry used to hold fingerprints of Code and Data is defmed as NBE_MaxHash. If the result of adding hCode_count to 


NBE_MaxHash. If the result of adding hCode_count to hData_count is greater than NBE_MaxHash, more than one OnBank entries are needed for a process. A field named sNumber is used to support this situation. For a process that only needs one OnBank entry, sNumber is set to zero. For a process that consumes more than one OnBank entries, sNumber takes a positive integer value to represent the sequent number of an entry The context of a process is mainly defmed by values of registers. In collecting the fingerprint of the context, environment variables of a process are also considered The CR3 register holds the physical address of the PGD \(Page Global Directory for virtual address to physical address translation. In response to context switching, some special purpose registers such as the stack pointer register, ESP, are save to the thread_info area, and various general purpose registers such as EAX, EBX, ECX, and EDX etc., are save to the kernel stack area. Figure 3 categorizes registers with this respect Each process in question is given a PFID \(Process Fingerprint Identity sNumber uniquely identifies an OnBank entry, which in tum provides the fingerprint in need 3.4. Considerations of System Implementation Patos-RIP is implemented in a Linux system. It is natural to think of determining measurement points in the Linux system and utilizing them to invoke measurement operations A process starts its real life with system call execve function calls are invoked to get the image file sys_execve   nameidata_to_filep  inode Then, the following kernel function calls are invoked to load the program into the process' virtual address space search_binary_handler  elf_map  get_unmapped_area Basic memory mapping of Code and Data is established for the process. But no Code or Data is 787 loaded into physical memory yet. This is a good point to create OnBank entries for the process When the CPU executes an instruction of the process, a page fault interrupt will occur. The following kernel function calls are invoked to bring the page of code in need into physical memory do-page_fault  do_no-page It is time to measure the integrity of the page of code. With the page of code in physical memory, it is easy to collect its instant fingerprint by hash calculation. On the other hand, according to the virtual address of the instruction, the virtual page number of code, say i, can be figured out. Therefore, the saved fingerprint, or hCode-i, can be retrieved from the related OnBank entry. If the instant fingerprint is different from hCode-i, a warning is issued that the integrity of the process is impaired Reading or writing data of a process may cause page fault interrupt too. At the time kernel function do_no-page be conducted by collecting instant fingerprint of data page and retrieving the corresponding saved fingerprint hData-j. In conjunction with data integrity measurement, data fingerprint in an OnBank entry is updated after a legitimate write operation Context integrity measurement and context fingerprint update are in need when context switching 


fingerprint update are in need when context switching occurs Process scheduling performed by kernel function schedule switched out, its fingerprint needs to be updated. If a switched in context is one that was previously switched out, its integrity is measured Interrupts causes context switching as well. When an interrupt occurs, kernel function do_IRQ invoked. It saves all registers into the stack SSO:ESPO suspends the current process, and executes the interrupt handler. After the interrupt handler finishes its work registers are restored from the stack SSO:ESPO, and the suspended process gets running again When a process ends its life with system call exit information in its OnBank entries is erased, and the OnBank entries are released 3.5. Protection with TPM It is very difficult, if not impossible, to implement full tamper-resistance with pure software methods Patos-RIP depends on the widely available TPM hardware to provide protection against tampering attacks. A TPM is a tiny hardware device that is powerful for integrity measurement, storage and report The trustworthiness of the OftBank and the OnBank is essential for making decision about the integrity of a process, because they are used as baseline for integrity measurement The OftBank may be put on a separate computer with TPM support, which can be called an OftBank platform. The OftBank platform is configured as a relatively closed system that is not used for network service except for communicating with the other part of Patos-RIP. The OftBank is encrypted in association with a well-defined platform configuration through the Sealed Storage function of the TPM. Only on the exact configuration can the OftBank be decrypted. Hence its integrity can be ensured With trustworthiness of the OftBank, the integrity of the initial OnBank can be well established. To keep the integrity of the OnBank later on, OnBank entries are encrypted with TPM encryption functions. The TPM generates a pair of keys for each process, which can be placed along with the OnBank entries of the process. The OnBank entries of a process are encrypted with the public key of the process. Private keys of all processes are encrypted by the TPM with its internal SRK \(Storage Root Key private key is bound to the PFID of the process so that a malicious process with incorrect PFID can not successfully ask the TPM to decrypt OnBank entries of other processes. To decrypt its own OnBank entry, a process loads its encrypted private key into a key slot of the TPM. The TPM decrypts the process' private key with consideration to its PFID, and decrypts the encrypted OnBank entry for it. All decryption operations are carried out inside the TPM Not only integrity of OftBank and OnBank but also that of all Patos-RIP components needs to be ensured Patos establishes essential trustworthiness for the basic Linux kernel with a TPM-based trusted boot procedure. Within the basic Linux kernel is the Trust Base of Patos. The Trust Base supports integrity measurement ofPatos-RIP components Collecting fingerprints of would-be-measured targets is one of the core operations that Patos-RIP performs. It uses hash functions of the TPM to accomplish this job wherever possible 4. Related Work Providing system integrity measurement to establish trustworthy application environment has been being attracting considerable work for a long time 


attracting considerable work for a long time Dyad[I], BITS[2], UPen AEGIS[3], IBM 4758[4 TPod[5] and IMA[6] tried to build up trustworthy environments by way of trusted boot. Trusted boot ensures that a successfully booted system is always a trusted system. UPen AEGIS and IBM 4758 also implement secure boot. Tripwire[7] provides an early 788 framework for integrity measurement. It provides assurance that system files are up-to-date and have not been tampered with. XOM[8] tries to build a trusted platform using traditional time-sharing operating system executing on a processor architecture that provides copy protection and tamper-resistance functions. MIT AEGIS[9] implements integrity measurement mechanisms inside a secure processor and provides process integrity measurement support. In addition to support trusted boot, IMA uses the TPM to detect subversion of the measurement results by comparing a hash value stored in the TPM with the expected value generated from the measurement system's audit log. PRIMA[10] extends the IMA concept to better minimize the performance impact on the system. By coupling IMA to SELinux policy, the number of measurement targets can be reduced to those that have information flow to trusted objects Copilot[11] uses cryptographic hashes to detect changes in measured objects, but its target of measurement is not the static image of a program and configuration files but the memory image of a running system. NFORCE[12] measures the in-core image of the Linux operating system and its executing processes. It uses the SMM feature of the Intel CPU architecture to provide a protected execution environment from which to measure. Its measurements are still limited to static memory regions in predefmed locations. LKIM[13] employs contextual inspection as a means to more completely characterize the operational integrity of a running Linux kernel. It examines dynamic data structures to provide improved integrity measurement. Patagonix[14] is a hypervisorbased system that depends on the processor hardware to detect code execution and on the binary format specifications of executables to identify code and verify code modifications Our work is different from those of others in that it tries to build light-weight operating system mechanisms for runtime process integrity measurement based on widely available TPM hardware. MIT AEGIS is most closely related to our work in providing lifetime process integrity support, but it depends heavily on proprietary secure processor. Patagonix is of certain similarity to our work in integrity measurement framework, but it chiefly focuses on hypervisor support and does not consider context integrity measurement 5. Conclusions This paper presents the design and implementation concepts of Patos-RIP, a prototype system of operating system mechanisms for runtime process integrity measurement. Contributions of our work include a weight mechanisms for runtime process integrity measurement that can provide effective compatibility for existing applications b lifetime integrity measurement without reliance on strong proprietary hardware support that may sacrifice system flexibility c available hardware functions to enhance trust and security functionality of main-stream software system 


security functionality of main-stream software system Both effectiveness test and performance penalty test are crucial to evaluate the practicability of a system Due to space limitation, this part of work is not presented in this paper. We will discuss such kind of test of Patos-RIP in detail in another paper. We will not only test Patos-RIP alone but test Patos as a whole Acknowledgements We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments and helpful suggestions The work of this paper is supported by National 863 High-Tech Research Development Program of China 2007AAOIZ414 Foundation of China \(60873213, 60703103 Natural Science Foundation of Beijing \(4082018 References 1] J.D. Tygar, B. Yee. Dyad: A System for Using Physically Secure Coprocessors. Technical Report, CMU-CS-91140R, Carnegie Mellon University, May 1991 2] P.C. Clark, L.J. Hoffman. BITS: A Smartcard Protected Operating System. Communications of the ACM, 37\(11 Nov. 1994: 66--70,94 3] W.A. Arbaugh, D.J. Farber, J.M. Smith. A Secure and Reliable Bootstrap Architecture. Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy \(S&amp;P'97 1997: 65--71 4] J.G. Dyer, M. Lindemann, R. Perez, R. Sailer, L.V Doom, S.W. Smith, S. Weingart. Building the IBM 4758 789 Secure Coprocessor. IEEE Computer, 34\(10 57--66 5] H. Maruyama, F. Seliger, N. Nagaratnam, T. Ebringer, S Munetoh, S. Yoshihama, T. Nakamura. Trusted Platform on demand. Technical Report, RT0564, IBM, Feb. 2004 6] R. Sailer, X. Zhang, T. Jaeger, L. Van Doom. Design and Implementation of a TCG-based Integrity Measurement Architecture. Proceedings of the 13th USENIX Security Symposium, San Diego, CA, USA, Aug. 2004: 223--238 7] G.H. Kim, E.H. Spafford. The Design and Implementation of Tripwire: A File System Integrity Checker. Proceedings of the 2nd ACM Conference on Computer and Communication Security, Fairfax Virginia, USA, 1994:18-29 8] D. Lie, C.A. Thekkath, M. Horowitz. Implementing an Untrusted Operating System on Trusted Hardware. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review, 37\(5 2003:178--192 9] G.E. Suh, D. Clarke, B. Gassend, M. van Dijk, S Devadas. AEGIS: Architecture for Tamper-Evident and Tamper-Resistant Processing. Proceedings of the 17th Annual International Conference on Supercomputing ICS'03 10] T. Jaeger, R. Sailer, U. Shankar. PRIMA: PolicyReduced Integrity Measurement Architecture Proceedings of the Eleventh ACM Symposium on Access Control Models and Technologies, Lake Tahoe California, USA, ACM Press: New York, NY, USA 2006: 19--28 11] N. Petroni Jr., T. Fraser, et al. Copilot - a coprocessorbased kernel runtime integrity monitor. Proceedings of the 13th Usenix Security Symposium, Aug 2004:179--194 12] D. Heine and Y. Kouskoulas. N-force daemon prototype technical description. Technical Report VS-03-021, The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory Jul., 2003 13] P.A. Loscocco, P.W. Wilson, J.A. Pendergrass, C.D McDonell. Linux Kernel Integrity Measurement Using Contextual Inspection. Proceedings of the 2007 ACM workshop on Scalable trusted computing \(STC'07 2007:21-29 14] L. Litty, H.A. Lagar-Cavilla, D. Lie. Hypervisor Support 


for Identifying Covertly Executing Binaries. 17th USENIX Security Symposium, 2008:243-258 pre></body></html 


Nevertheless, the encouraging influence of legal environment would be diminished as people understand e-commerce better and e-commerce becomes a common practice in the society  6.2. Policy implication  An effective research project is not only used to explain and predict social phenomena, but also to help humans master them to achieve social objectives through yielding useful policy recommendations [60 All sound policy prescriptions should rely on a solid theory base, valid data analysis, and rational discussion.  In reality, however, policymakers generally lack adequate scientific evidence and knowledge for making crucial decisions on ecommerce development.  The application of institutional theory in e-commerce adoption and its empirical findings in this study have a clear relevance to policy makers.  If we understand better at the theoretical level how those institutional factors would produce an outcome of e-commerce adoption, we then have the basis for a conditional prediction in the real world on how e-commerce will develop in a certain environment.  It will help policy makers to formulate appropriate policies to accelerate e-commerce adoption Experience has taught us that it is important to build a friendly climate for technology innovation and diffusion.  The effects of the legal and policy environments will depend to a significant extent on how policy-makers and other stakeholders will act and influence.  According to this study, this is particularly vital at the starting stage of e-commerce.  The advancement in e-commerce adoption at Phase I 2003 environment and government policy.  In particular proactive government policies were the prime mover of e-commerce in many developing countries, and it is still a driving force of e-commerce diffusion today The fosterage of government policy is summarized as follows.  First, government policies that encourage investment in IT adoption, particularly the financial incentives, are stimulating to e-commerce development.  Second, government efforts to promote an open and free trade environment, including deregulating telecom markets, improving IT infrastructure, and conducting e-procurement itself will encourage e-commerce adoption and diffusion Third, government?s assurance on recognizing econtracts and providing legitimate legal frameworks will facilitate e-commerce activities.  Fourth government?s educational and training program will foster ?e-literacy? and greater awareness of ecommerce among businesses.  Last, cooperation between government and private sector is a key to ecommerce On the other hand, this study also shows that the lack of adequate legal framework might be a concern for engaging in e-commerce at first, but that the lack thereof would not deter the society from further ecommerce diffusion. Thus, after an initial push on ecommerce adoption, legislations should not interfere directly in private investments in e-commerce until there is a clear sign of market uncertainty and disturbance Finally, as Kofi Annan, the former SecretaryGeneral of UN, indicated, ?if all countries are to be benefited [from e-commerce], ? more needs to be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally 


done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally and internationally.? [7  7. References  1] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2007," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2007 2] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2002," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2002 3] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2006," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2006 4] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2001," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2001 5] R. Tehan, "E-commerce statistics: Explanation and sources,"  Washington, D.C.: Congressional Research Service, The Library of Congress, 2003 6] W. J. Clinton and J. Albert Gore, "A Framework for Global Electronic Commerce,"  Washington, D.C.: The White House, 1997 7] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2004," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2004 8] C.-F. Shih, J. Dedrick, and K. L. Kraemer, "Rule of law and the international diffusion of e-commerce," Association for Computing Machinery. Communications of the ACM, vol 48, p. 57, Nov 2005 9] J. E. Oxley and B. Yeung, "E-commerce readiness Institutional environment and international competitiveness Journal of International Business Studies, vol. 32, pp. 705723, 2001 10] K. A. Shepsle, "Institutional equilibrium and equilibrium institutions," in Political Science: The Science of Politics, H. Weisburg, Ed. New York: Agathon, 1986, pp 51-82 11] E. Ostrom, "An agenda for the study of institutions Public Choice, vol. 48, pp. 3-25, 1986 12] J. Ahrens, "The New Institutional Economics," in Governance and economic development Northampton, MA Edward Elgar, 2002, pp. 48-68 13] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "Introduction," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W Powell and P. J. DiMaggio, Eds. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp. 1-38 14] D. C. North, "The New Institutional Economics Journal of institutional and theoretical economics, vol. 142 pp. 230-237, 1986 15] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "The iron cage revisited: Institutional isomorphism and collective rationality in organization fields," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W. Powell and P. J. DiMaggio Eds. Chicago, IL: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp 63-82 16] J. L. King, V. Gurbaxani, K. L. Kraemer, F. W McFarlan, K. S. Raman, and C. S. Yap, "Institutional factors in information technology innovation," Information Systems Research, vol. 5, pp. 139-169, 1994 17] C. L. Iacovou, I. Benbasat, and A. S. Dexter, "Electronic data interchange and small organizations: Adoption and impact of technology," MIS Quarterly, vol. 19, pp. 465-485 December 1995 18] S. Dasgupta, D. Agarwal, A. Ioannidis, and S Gopalakrishnan, "Determinants of information technology adoption: An extension of existing models to firms in a developing country," Journal of Global Information Management, vol. 7, pp. 30-45, 1999 19] E. H.-h. Wang, "ICT and economic development in Taiwan: analysis of the evidence," Telecommunications Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 


Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 20] PWC, "SME Electronic Commerce Study \(final report Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation APEC PWC September 1999 September 24th 1999 21] A. Scupola, "The adoption of Internet commerce by SMEs in the south of Italy: An environmental, technological and organizational perspective," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 6, pp. 52-71 2003 22] S. Fraser and W. Wresch, "National competitive advantage in e-commerce efforts: A report from five caribbean nations," Perspectives on Global Development and Technology, vol. 4, pp. 27-44, 2005 23] I. Mia and S. Dutta, "Connecting the world to the networked economy: A progress report based on the findings of the Networked Readiness Index 2006-2007," in The global information technology report 2006-2007: Connecting to the networked economy, S. Dutta and I. Mia, Eds. Hampshire UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007, pp. 3-21 24] S. M. B. Thatcher, W. Foster, and L. Zhu, "B2B ecommerce adoption decisions in Taiwan: The interaction of cultural and other institutional factors," Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, vol. 5, pp. 92-104, 2006 25] EIU, "The 2003 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2003 26] P. Y. K. Chau and K. L. T. Hui, "Determinants of small business EDI adoption: An empirical investigation," Journal of Organizational Computing &amp; Electronic Commerce, vol 11, pp. 229-252, 2001 27] K. K. Y. Kuan and P. Y. K. Chau, "A perception-based model for EDI adoption in small businesses using a technology-organization-environment framework Information &amp; Management, vol. 38, pp. 507-521, October 2001 28] L. Cui, C. Zhang, C. Zhang, and L. Huang, "Exploring e-government impact on Shanghai firms' informatization process," Electronic Markets, vol. 16, p. 312, 2006 29] A. H. Seyal, M. M. Awais, S. Shamail, and A. Abbas Determinants of electronic commerce in Pakistan Preliminary evidence from small and medium enterprises Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 372-387, 2004 30] E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "E-commerce adoption Perceptions of managers/owners of small and medium sized firms in Chile," Communications of the Association for Information Systems, vol. 13, pp. 81-102, 2004 31] E. E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "Electronic commerce adoption: An empirical study of small and medium US businesses," Information &amp; Management, vol. 42, pp. 197216, December 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 32] Y.-B. Joo and Y. G. Y.-G. Kim, "Determinants of corporate adoption of e-marketplace: An innovation theory perspective," Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management, vol. 10, pp. 89-101, March 2004 33] A. M. Khalfan and A. Alshawaf, "Adoption and implementation problems of e-banking: A study of the managerial perspective of the banking industry in Oman Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol 7, pp. 47-64, 2004 34] J. Gibbs, K. L. Kraemer, and J. Dedrick, "Environment and policy factors shaping global e-commerce diffusion: A cross-country comparison," The Information Society, vol. 19 pp. 5-18, 2003 35] B. Shore, "Information sharing in global supply chain systems," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 4, pp. 27-50, 2001 36] C. L. Mann, "Electronic commerce, networked readiness, and trade competitiveness," in The global information technology report 2001-2002: Readiness for the networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D 


networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D Sachs, and K. Schwab, Eds. New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2002, pp. 90-103 37] EC, "The European e-Business Report 2006/07 edition e-Business W@tch, European Commission, Bonn, Germany 2006 2006 2006 38] G. Ndubizu and B. Arinze, "Legal determinants of the global spread of e-commerce," International Journal of Information Management  vol. 22, pp. 181-194, June 2002 39] H. Zhao, S. Kim, T. Suh, and J. Du, "Social institutional explanations of global Internet diffusion: A cross-country analysis," Journal of Global Information Management, vol 15, pp. 28-55, April-June 2007 40] J. L. Gibbs and K. L. Kraemer, "A cross-country investigation of the determinants of scope of e-commerce use: An institutional approach," Electronic Markets, vol. 14 pp. 124-137, June 2004 41] S. Xu, K. Zhu, and J. Gibbs, "Global technology, local adoption: A cross-country investigation of Internet adoption by companies in the United States and China," Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 13-24, 2004 42] K. Zhu and K. L. Kraemer, "Post-adoption variations in usage and value of e-business by organizations: Crosscountry evidence from the retail industry," Information Systems Research, vol. 16, pp. 61-84, March 2005 43] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, and S. Xu, "The process of innovation assimilation by firms in different countries: A technology diffusion perspective on E-business Management Science, vol. 52, pp. 1557-1576, October 2006 44] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, S. Xu, and J. Dedrick Information technology payoff in e-business environments An international perspective on value creation of e-business in the financial services industry," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 21, pp. 17-54, Summer 2004 45] E. Kaynak, E. Tatoglu, and V. Kula, "An analysis of the factors affecting the adoption of electronic commerce by SMEs: Evidence from an emerging market," International Marketing Review, vol. 22, pp. 623-640, 2005 46] M. Simpson and A. J. Docherty, "E-commerce adoption support and advice for UK SMEs," Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development, vol. 11, pp. 315-328, 2004 47] P.-F. Hsu, K. L. Kraemer, and D. Dunkle, "Determinants of e-business use in U.S. firms," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 10, pp. 9-45, Summer 2006 48] R. Bond and C. Whiteley, "Untangling the Web: A review of certain secure e-commerce legal issues International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 12, pp. 349-370, 1998 49] A. D. Mitchell, "Towards compatibility: The future of electronic commerce within the global trading system Journal of International Economic Law, vol. 4, p. 683, 2001 50] A. D. Murray, D. W. Vick, and S. Wortley, "Regulating e-commerce: Formal transactions in the digital age International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 13, pp. 127-145, 1999 51] G. I. Zekos, "MNEs, globalisation and digital economy Legal and economic aspects," Managerial Law, vol. 45, pp 5-296, 2003 52] Baker&amp;McKenzie, "Global E-commerce Law Resources," http://www.bakernet.com/ecommerce, Baker &amp McKenzie Law Firm, 2004 53] C. Hakim, "Research reviews, meta-analysis and secondary analysis," in Research Design: Successful designs for social and economic research, Second ed New York Routledge, 2000, pp. 21-33 54] K. L. Kraemer, "Introduction," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3 K. L. Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School 1991, pp. xiii-xvii 55] V. Gurbaxani and H. Mendelson, "The use of secondary analysis in MIS research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L 


Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 71-106 56] H. C. Lucas, "Methodological issues in information systems survey research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 273-285 57] EIU, "The 2001 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2001 58] V. Jupp, The Sage Dictionary of Social Research Methods. London: Sage Publications, 2006 59] EIU, "The 2007 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2007 60] S. V. Evera, Guide to Methods for Students of Political Science. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 1997   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


