html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Factors  Affecting Use of Mobile Advertising: A Quantitative Study  Ramin Vatanparast \(Ph.D Drive, Mountain View, CA, 94043 USA ramin.vatanparast@nokia.com  Ali Hasan Butt, Haas School of Business, University of California at Berkeley ali_butt@mba.berkeley.edu  Abstract The heightened interest towards mobileadvertising recently observed amongst the academic and industry circles has led to the need for the formulation of a simple yet comprehensive conceptual framework to ascertain the key factors effecting the use and potency of current as well as future endeavors in the realm of mobile advertising. A number of attempts have been made by the academia as well as industry practitioners to lay out an intuitive conceptual model to analyze this exciting and innovative field of technology based marketing. The underlying paper delineates the results of an empirical study conducted to evaluate a conceptual model and strength of the hypotheses around the model. The results of the survey have proven the conceptual model in the respective areas of Consumer, Message, and Media at a statistically significant level. We believe that this proposed Conceptual Model/Framework can serve as a solid base for the evaluation of the critical success factors for a market-worthy mobile advertising strategy  1. Introduction  Devices and systems based on mobile technologies have become a common place in our everyday lives 1], increasing the accessibility, frequency and speed of communication. As a result, mobile technologies have the potential to create new markets, change the competitive landscape of business, create new opportunities, and change existing community and market structures [2]. Today's development in information technology helps marketers to keep track of customers and provide new communication venues for reaching smaller customer segments more cost effectively and with more personalized messages  There are a couple of reasons why many experts consider mobile advertising as an encouraging branch of mobile business [3]: high penetration rate of mobile terminals, mobile terminals as personal communication devices, individually addressable, multimedia capabilities and interactivity. However there are also some serious challenges when talking about mobile advertising, such as spam, limited user interface privacy concerns, and the expense of mobile data communication. The mentioned features and challenges of mobile advertising show an area of divergence: personalized advertising requires sensitive information about the end user, his fields of interest latest activities or his current location. On the other side there are privacy concerns when providing this information for a mobile advertising application  Despite all the attention paid to advertising, only few academic researchers have evaluated critical factors determining its success. The underlying paper is the continuation of previous research work [4] by the author which investigated the factors that influence 


author which investigated the factors that influence mobile  advertising eco-system based on a literature survey, and then the authors proposed a set of hypothesis and a conceptual model. In order to validate that model and set of hypotheses, which were built based on the empirical insights with ex-ant literature we conducted a survey of Industry and academia experts in the field of mobile advertising. This research study capitalizes on the respond of of 115 experts from the field of mobile advertising to explore and identify the most important factors affecting the current and future adoption of mobile advertising. The paper covers quantitative analysis of the conceptual model of the factors effecting mobile advertising. and the next logical extension of our research is to conduct a similar survey with the end-consumer audience  2. Conceptual Model  In this section we go shortly through the conceptual model which was proposed in priviuse research work [4]. Mobile marketing adoption and acceptance is on the rise [5], but without a clear understanding of the elements affecting mobile advertising value for consumer, marketers will have little ability to constantly generate positive returns from their programs. Bauer et al., identified the influential variables affecting consumer behavior Based on our review [4], the main factors that are affecting consumer behavior are 1 to which personal information is not known by others Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 2 satisfy by using a mobile device, and 3 respond and attitude towards mobile advertising  According to Kotler [6], formulating the message is critical in mobile advertising and will require solving four problems: what to say \(message content say it logically \(message structure symbolically \(message format message source factors are critical regarding messaging in mobile advertising; 1 mobile advertising, content being informative and entertaining, 2 the truthfulness and believability of advertising in general, 3 customer?s goal in specific context with a business?s goal in its respective context  Mobile handsets are seen as very powerful communication devices by advertisers, due to the personal, immediate, and interactive nature of them 7]. The mobile device may be an attention getter, but an attention getting device that is unrelated to the message will not attract consumers interested in the message or the product [8]. The device should have the following characteristics to maximize user experience in mobile advertising: 1 user interface maximizes user experience, 2 Interactivity; enable interactive solution for communication between mobile marketer and consumer, 3 telecommunications platforms and also location based technologies  For maximizing mobile advertising effect business models that can capture the synergy of two existing industries, advertising and 


existing industries, advertising and telecommunications, must be conceived. In any future sustainable business model, all players will have to reach a consensus on the structure of the system and on the importance of each player in that system [9  The factors affecting the mobile advertising media are: 1 discounts or special offers convince people to consider mobile advertisements, 2 cross media working in mobile advertising value chain 3 of rules for the collection and procession of locationbased data. To summarize, the above mentioned information lead to the development of a set of hypothesis and also a hypothetical model of factors effecting the use of mobile advertising for consumer Figure 1. In this paper, we define ?the use of mobile advertising? as the inclination/propensity of advertisers to use the mobile communication medium for getting their advertising messages across to the mass consumer market. We also define the ?acceptance of mobile advertising? as how proactively advertisers adopt it for broadcasting their advertised content as well as the the extent to which consumers respond favorably to this medium for receiving advertisements   Figure 1: A hypothetical model of factors affecting mobile advertising [4  3. Research Methodology  In the following section the quantitative investigation is described. The main objective of this article is to explore mobile advertising?s challenges and future directions by evaluating a conceptual model and factors that influences mobile advertising. Based on existing literature, we propose a set of hypotheses that lay the foundation for our conceptual model of factors affecting mobile advertising. In this study, the model is tested by evaluating the hypotheses against a five point Likert scale \(1 strongly agree to 5 strongly disagree  At first a survey invitation was sent to around 50 selected, well-known individual who had practical or academic contribution in the field, and they were requested to recommend some more industry/academia peers for the mobile advertising community. Overall 245 participants belonging to different segments of the mobile marketing/ advertising industry and academia were contacted for the survey, leading to 115 completes across 19 different countries in North America, Europe and Asia. Some other pertinent demographic details are shared in Table 1, for reference Table 1: Demographic detail of the survey study GENDER Male 72.2 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 Female 27.8 AGE 20-29 Years 21.1 30-39 years 41.2 40-49 Years 28.9 50+ Years 8.8 EDUCATION LEVEL Bachelors and under 26.1 Master 47.8 Ph.D. or higher 26.1 


Ph.D. or higher 26.1 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE 1-5 years 20.2 6-10 years 17.5 10-15 years 19.3 16-20 years 18.4 20+ years 24.6  4. Study Results  A macro-level analysis of the basic statistical metrics of the survey data \(Table 2 panel of mobile advertising experts agrees with the twelve important factors proposed in our previous paper and the only factor which demands a look closer look and some debate is Device Intelligence. A review of the mean rating values for the different factors in the conceptual model reveals that mobile advertising experts have ranked the different factors in the following order: Consumer Purpose, Consumer Performance, Device Interface, Message Content Media Price, Message Customization, Media Policy Consumer Privacy, Device Interactivity, Message Credibility, Media Process and Device Intelligence. A closer look at the top-5 rated ?sub-factors? reveals that all the four core tenants/factors of our model are seen as critical to the success of mobile advertising. The range of mean rating values is not very wide [3.384.17] and most of the ratings fall fairly close to each other, with Device Intelligence being the only outlier  However, certain factors like Consumer Privacy which was expected to feature in the top-5 of the ratings was placed at 8 by the survey participants which we believe suggests that if mobile advertisers figure out and solve the other factors involved effectively, the consumers? fear of privacy invasion can be overcome. Like advertising on other media, if advertisers are fulfilling the consumer?s purpose by gratifying their needs for information, knowledge and social acceptance through mobile advertising they are more likely to react to it enthusiastically The second rated factor ?Consumer Preference implies that overcoming the issue of advertising being seen as distracting, confusing, overwhelming, irritating or intrusive is going to be of pivotal importance for advertising to pick up on the mobile handset medium Context sensitivity and relevance to the user?s need are going to propel the viral adoption of mobile advertising. The third rated factor, Device Interface directly translates into the ease of use and quality of user experience which consumers get from mobile advertising and an engaging and efficient user interfaces are bound to improve the degree and rate of adoption of mobile advertising  Table 2: Summary of statistical analyze CONSUMER Metrics on Grouped Data Privacy Purpose Performance Mean 3.73 4.17 4.10 Standard Deviation 0.92 0.71 0.81 Mode 4.00 4 5.00 Median 4.00 4 4.50 MESSAGE Metrics on Grouped Data 


Data Content Credibility Customization Mean 4.08 3.66 4.00 Standard Deviation 0.580 0.772 0.736 Mode 4 4 4 Median 4.25 4 4.5 DEVICE Metrics on Grouped Data Interface Interactivity Intelligence Mean 4.09 3.67 3.38 Standard Deviation 0.766 0.837 0.717 Mode 4 4 3 Median 4.5 3.75 3.5 MEDIA Metrics on Grouped Data Price Process Policy Mean 4.03 3.64 3.92 Standard Deviation 0.872 0.802 0.910 Mode 4 4 4 Median 3.75 3.5 4  Interaction with the mobile device interface is more time-consuming and entails more effort and concentration than reading from a desktop computer 10] due to space limitations and constrained user interfaces. Hence content of the message needs to be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 crisp and relevant to engage the consumer in a meaningful interaction  The pervasive presence of advertising-backed free services and products on the Internet have given birth to an expectation in the consumer?s mind that they can gain other incentives in return for their attention on the media. Today?s every-busy and time conscious consumers believe that advertisers need to make it worth their while? for them to agree to accept advertising. Some initial experiments in this regard by some European mobile operators have led to win-win experiences on parts of mobile advertisers as well as the consumers  In the plot below, we have plotted the average scores for the factor on the X-axis and the Standard Deviation on the Y axis. This plot can be seen as a simple representation of what factors are more important than others and to what degree the respondents agreed with each other in their responses It is evident from this graph that the strongest consensus was found on the ?Message Content? factor of our model which had the lowest Standard Deviation and a 4+ average rating  Mes Customization Con Purpose Mes Content Dev Intelligence Dev Interface Con Performance 


Med Price Med Policy Con Privacy Dev Interactivtiy Med Process Mes Cedribility 0.5 0.55 0.6 0.65 0.7 0.75 0.8 0.85 0.9 0.95 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 Series1  Figure 2: Plot of average scores for the factor on the Xaxis and the Standard Deviation on the Y axis  4.1. Consumer  An overwhelming majority of our panel of mobile advertising experts believe that respecting the consumer?s privacy is pivotal for mobile advertising to be acknowledged positively by the consumer audience Only customers who choose to ?Opt-in? to targeted mobile advertising would find it most useful and hence increase its likelihood of success. With the consumer?s current skepticism towards mass advertising advertisers would need to regain their confidence gradually by making targeted, self-selected and relevant advertising pitches to the technology earlyadopters. Once they have experienced and benefited from mobile advertising, they can facilitate further proliferation through viral marketing  The Mobile Marketing Association?s\(MMA have been termed as a good starting point for advertisers and mobile operators to chalk out the terms and conditions of usage and privacy rules for mobile marketing. It is imperative for consumers to have control over the messages that they are receiving. The worst thing that could happen to mobile advertising is that it turns into spam. When every message costs money, consumers will quickly lose faith in marketer's ability to be responsible and the backlash will result in negative implications for all marketers  Ascertaining the consumers? purpose and need so that mobile advertising can be targeted according to their purpose/need is extremely important for the advertisers but it presents us with a dilemma where getting a thorough understanding of the consumers behavior might require us to conduct surveys or behavioral analyses which could irritate the average consumer and ?behind the scene? analytics of their search trends, location preferences etc. could potentially be seen as an intrusion into their privacy Hence advertisers need to take a balanced approach in this regard where they do not irritate their customers by following their behavior too closely and educate them effectively about the benefits they can receive by allowing the mobile operators/ mobile advertisers to follow their usage behavior and patterns  One of incentivizing consumers? is to give them of opting-in on discounts on their monthly phone bills for 


opting-in on discounts on their monthly phone bills for allowing advertisers to utilize information from their profiles on social networking sites to serve them relevant and useful advertisements. Another representative scenario could be where large retailers get involved in mobile advertising, sending special Discount Coupons on mobile devices of their loyal customers who opt-in to such special services. These retailers already have plenty of spending data on the consumer and if mobile advertisers team up with such retailers, it could create win-win scenarios for all the participants in the mobile advertising experience advertiser, retailer and consumer  As the consumers' needs change over time and also depend on context/location, advertisers cannot rely heavily on past data and have to continuously update Experts Disagree High SD            Experts Agree Low SD Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 their understanding of the end user?s situation. One of the possible solutions to this could be an On-Device Portal Profile system that the consumer can opt into to receive the information and promotions that they find relevant and useful. Furthermore, understanding what needs end-users have in terms of impulse buying special needs when they are traveling etc. could also improve the mobile advertising value proposition. In a nutshell, generating ?opt-in? user interest profiles based on data mining techniques which give specific advertising based on location and time can help advertisers fulfill the consumers? needs  4.2. Message  The key takeaway from the customization perspective was to give the consumer full control and flexibility in terms of what advertising content get through to them on their devices and what needs and usage behavior they exhibit. A combination of consumer contributed information and contextual targeting from mobile usage data as well as the frequency of ad placement are important factors to be taken into account. Factors like the consumers Location, financial capability, device type, address book, calling patterns etc are inherently private features that need to be managed carefully when datamining for customizing the advertisements. Consumers should be allowed to 'pre-select' the types and categories of ads that they would be interested in  Presenting content and advertising within the context of a consumer's online interactions can ensure that this is relevant to their needs. Allowing people the flexibility to use the internet \(on the mobile device or on their PCs 


on their PCs providing some value to the consumer will result in impactful advertisements. Nevertheless, such customized, targeted and relevant mobile advertising will require cross-domain collaboration among various domain experts like lawyers, marketers, advertisers usability experts, technologists, sociologists and anthropologists  Relevance is complex function of ascertaining the end-users location, context and user consumption patterns in a timely manner .e.g. Sending a shoe advertisement to a person who a month ago for 3 days was in-and-out of shoe stores will most likely not be effective because  he would have already bought his shoes. Customized messages would need to be as wellrepresented as possible and should fully exploit current mobile media technology like images, video, sound and maps etc  Viral marketing is the most effective way for the advertisers to proliferate mobile advertising. A user base that promotes and evangelizes your services can drive adoption and success much more effectively than any amount of cross-media advertising. The ?Net Promoter Score? is a marketing metric that has gained traction in the marketing industry for its simplicity and relevance to the success of a product in the market place. Satisfied and trusting customers of a service like mobile advertising can definitely help other customers gain trust and confidence in the relevance and usefulness of these services. Information needs to be presented on the consumer's terms and not on the advertiser's as trust is gained over time and not overnight. Incentives can definitely spur trial but adoption will depend strongly on message credibility  Challenges faced by mobile advertisers are fairly similar to the ones experienced by advertisers on other media. Advertisements need to be legal, decent, honest and truthful to gain traction in the market and fulfillment of advertised promises is absolutely essential for this medium to gain the consumer?s trust Foot in the door? approach where you ask for consumer?s permission to share advertisements first and then deliver advertisements is expected to be the most viable approach. There is a possibility that people will start associating the advertisements with the brand of the phone or phone carrier or start off with.  To avoid such confusion, getting market leading brands like Nike, Sony, McDonalds etc to use your medium could be very effective. Trust and Brand are seen as synonymous by some experts who believe that mobile advertising would be taken as seriously by the consumer audiences as the brands involved  4.3. Device  There was strong consensus among our panel of experts around the importance of the Device User Interface for the success of mobile advertising and simplicity, high quality/high resolution display was thought to be very important in this regard. Some experts highlighted the need of understanding the behavior and preferences of users living in different countries as well. To expect a large portion of end users across the world to have advanced interface features on their mobile device is not realistic.  Unlike in Japan where the average mobile consumer changes phones at least twice per year, opting for more technologically advanced phones each time  


 In the US, consumers do not change their phones that frequently. So in order to develop suitable marketing, general ads should be developed to play on Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 all phones by adopting the strategy of working to the lowest common denominator, which will help get penetration into as broad a target market as possible On the flip side, if one was to focus only on users with advanced phones, then this niche is a community that could also be well-served as they are expected to be early adopter and tech-savvy users. In our opinion, the mobile advertisers should focus on breadth rather that depth? when trying to spur adoption of mobile advertising in the market place. Again we believe simplicity is key for quick adoption by users and complicated and time-consuming, graphics heavy features can be added on later, when user has seen the value of mobile advertising and is fully engaged  Interactivity will assist advertisers in their 'call to action' and it will be a necessary part of a successful mobile advertising promotion. Most experts see device interactivity and intelligence technologies as playing the ?complimentary? enablers role rather than forming the core of the mobile advertising experience to begin with. Speech input, predictable text input, offline content review and consolidation of messages/advertising offers are some of the areas in which further technological advancement can help simplify the mobile advertising value proposition for the end-users. Similarly the development of a bar-code like mobile coupons which work seamlessly at retail stores and are widely compatible on all mobile devices is also an aspect of mobile device software intelligence which proves useful for mobile advertisers  However, pure technology will never provide a better and comprehensively pleasant user experience Advertisers will have to focus more on the user experience rather than getting carried away with usage of the latest technology. We believe that a well executed and valuable text messaging campaign will win over a more complex and technological solution if the user experience is complex or non-intuitive Having said that, larger screen-size on mobile devices Voice-response capabilities to advertising messages and fast carrier networks \(3G or 4G interfaces etc. will definitely improve mobile advertising?s appeal to the consumers? imagination once this advertising medium has gain some traction  4.4. Media  Standards and regulatory measures are going to play an important role in facilitating the adoption of mobile advertising. It is very important to get industry to work together to get market acceptance by overcoming the key consumer concerns around privacy and security. We believe that currently mobile phone users trust their mobile operators more than any thirdparty content providers and the mobile operators will have to guarantee a spam-free environment \(as well as the ability to report spam easily if there is any consumers? the confidence to experiment with mobile advertising. On a regulatory level the regulatory organizations like the EU and governments are also building core frameworks around mobile advertising these days with concerns around spam, managing and abstracting subscriber information, strict privacy protection and age controls being the core focus areas 


protection and age controls being the core focus areas Some envision mobile advertising to propagate better if the mobile operators orient their networks on Open and non-proprietary lines, like the Internet \(as opposed to the current closed cell phone network models adopted by some of the American and European operators  Keeping tight and practical limits on the usage of Location Based Services is also important. Recent research in 2006, in which a research firm surveyed 2000 European mobile users to get their perspective on mobile advertising, the overall response showed a great resistance to the idea of LBS-linked advertising because consumers are still fearful of exposing realtime information about the location on a round the clock basis. No one wants a device in their pocket that tells advertisers where they are at all times. Regulation and tight consumer control around such LBS data might help build the consumers confidence to a certain extent but advertisers will need to act responsibly in this regard  Telecommunications and marketing regulators need to come up with fool-proof policies to ensure that consumers are protected from unscrupulous marketers and advertisers. Consumer privacy and absolute control of their information and ability to be reached by marketers must be protected at all cost. The basic concerns of the consumers are quite simple .e.g. who will get my data, how can I eliminate spam, etc. As long as consumers know that policies are in place, and working, they will feel safe and will open up to advertisements  5. Conclusion  Mobile marketing adoption and acceptance is on the rise [5], but without a clear understanding of the elements effecting mobile advertising, marketers will have little ability to constantly generate positive returns from their programs. Previous studies [11] identified the influential variables affecting consumer behavior Based on author?s review the main factors which are affecting consumer behavior are 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 to which personal information is not known by others 2 to satisfy by using a mobile device, and 3 Performance; respond and attitude towards mobile advertising. According to Kotler [6], formulating the message is critical in mobile advertising and will require solving four problems: what to say \(message content message structure how to say it symbolically \(message format should say it \(message source the following factors are critical regarding messaging in mobile advertising; 1 king? in mobile advertising, content being informative and entertaining, 2 of the truthfulness and believability of advertising in general, 3 customer?s goal in specific context with a business?s goal in its respective context  Mobile handsets are seen as very powerful communication devices by advertisers, due to the personal, immediate, and interactive nature of them 12]. The mobile device may be an attention getter, but an attention getting device that is unrelated to the message will not attract consumers interested in the message or the product [13]. The device should have 


the following characteristics to maximize user experience in mobile advertising: 1 and suitable user interface maximizes user experience 2 communication between mobile marketer and consumer, 3 telecommunications platforms and also location based technologies. For mobile advertising to succeed business models that can capture the synergy of two existing industries, advertising and telecommunications, must be conceived. In any future sustainable business model, all players will have to reach a consensus on the structure of the system and on the importance of each player in that system [9]. The factors affecting the mobile advertising media are: 1 Players; key players and their roles, 2 relationship and cross media working in mobile advertising value chain, 3 regulation which place sets of rules for the collection and procession of location-based data  This paper delineates the results of an empirical study conducted to evaluate the strength of set of hypotheses around selected conceptual model. A five point Likert-Scale survey of a convenience sample of 115 Mobile marketing experts was conducted to help evaluate the hypotheses and statistical hypothesis testing techniques have been employed at 95 confidence level to evaluate the results. The paper also documents some valuable suggestions received from the mobile marketing expert community  The results of the survey have proven the conceptual model in the respective areas of Consumer Privacy, Purpose &amp; Performance Content Credibility and Customization Price Process &amp; Policy believe that this proposed Conceptual Model/Framework can serve as a solid base for the evaluation of the critical success factors for a marketworthy mobile advertising strategy  The main objective of this article was to explore mobile advertising?s challenges and future directions by evaluating factors that seem to influence mobile advertising. The theoretical contribution of this article lies in outlining the key factors of mobile advertising Author hopes that this article opens new dialogues on multiple unexamined issues concerning mobile advertising industry. The paper has addressed an important and topical subject, as there has not been sufficient empirical evidence to date to substantiate any of the theoretical models that have been proposed regarding the factors that influence the success of mobile advertising. This paper its conclusions will be a valuable contribution to the debates in academia  A potential extension of our research is to field this same set of survey  questions, \(which was fielded to mobile advertising experts for the sake of this paper be fielded to mobile phone consumers across different demographics in different countries to assess how the consumers? perceptions stack-rank against the experts opinions. The authors hopes that this article opens new dialogues on multiple unexamined issues concerning mobile advertising industry  6. References   1] Balasubramanian S., Peterson R. A. and Jarvenpaa, S. L Exploring the Implications of MCommerce for Markets and 


Exploring the Implications of MCommerce for Markets and Marketing", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 30\(4 2] Stewart D. W. and Pavlou, P. A. "From Consumer Response to Active Consumer: Measuring the Effectiveness of Interactive Media", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 30\(4 3] Bulander R., Decker M., Schiefer G., and Kolmel B Comparison of Different Approaches for Mobile Advertising? Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE  International Workshop on Mobile Commerce and Services \(WMCS '05 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7  IEEE Computer Society, Munich, Germany, July 2005. pp 174-182 4] Vatanparast R., Asil M. ?Factors Affecting the Use of Mobile Advertising? International Journal of Mobile Marketing, December 2007  Volume 2, No 2 5] Becker M. ?Effectiveness of Mobile Channel Additions and A Conceptual Model Detailing the Interaction of Influential Variables? access Nov. 2005 http://www.iloopmobile.com/news/mb_research_111705.htm access Jan 2007 6] Kotler P. "Marketing Management", Pearson Education Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, 2003 7] Koranteng J., ?ZAP! There?s no escaping the mobile ad Ad Age Global, January, Vol. 1, No. 5, 2001, p.9 8] Ogilvy D., "Confessions of an Advertising Man Ballantine Books, New York, 1963 9] Lepp  niemi M., Karjaluoto H., and Salo J., ?The success factors of mobile advertising value chain?, EBusiness Review IV, 2004 pp. 93-97 10] Duchnicky, R. L., and Kolers, P. A. \(1983 of text scrolled on video display terminals as a function of window size. Human Factors, 25, 683-692  11] Bauer H. H, Barnes S. J., Reichardt T. and Neumann M M., "Driving Consumer Acceptance of Mobile Marketing: A Theoretical Framework and Empirical Study," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, Vo. l6, No.3, 2005, pp 181-192 12] Koranteng J., ?ZAP! There?s no escaping the mobile ad?, Ad Age Global, January, Vol. 1, No. 5, 2001, p.9 13] Ogilvy D., "Confessions of an Advertising Man Ballantine Books, New York, 1963 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 pre></body></html 


acquisition of transport information by selecting OWLQoS documents which describe quality of Web services from a repository that contains 3 OWL-QoS documents discovered previously. Similar to the example in Figure 2, the Filter Schema FS1 is used to read and select appropriate OWL-QoS documents, and the Filter Schema FS2 to create new OWL-QoS documents for the place ?OWL-QoS document?. As Filter Schema provides no means for formulating inequality operators like ?&gt;? and ?&lt;=?, which are usually used to express constraints with parameters whose quantitative values are limited to a certain interval, transition inscriptions Figure 4. XML net for Web service discovery Figure 5. Filter Schemas for Web service discovery definitions 1 service name: \\s*flight\\s*/i c definitions service name: \\s*train\\s*/i b a definitions 1 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 can be used in combination with Filter Schemas to formulate QoS constrains Suppose that the traveler wants to use only the Web services that cost no more than 100 US Cent. The Filter Schema FS1 should then be created as shown in Figure 7. The variable of the attribute filter ?rdf: resource? of the element filter ?owl: onProperty? is instantiated with a regular expression to filter OWL-QoS documents specifying the property ?costUSCent?. To ensure that the maximal cost of the Web service doesn?t exceed 100 US cent, the inscription of the transition ?select transport info service? should be formulated as owl:maxCardinality &lt;= 100?. In process simulation or execution, the inscription is parsed and integrated into XQuery statements using XPath inequality operators  6. Conclusions  In this paper we presented a WSC method based on XML nets, which inherit advantages of Petri nets such as formal semantics and graphical expression. XML nets have additional strengths in the description of process and data objects, and the exchange of XMLbased structured data. The advantage of using XML nets for WSC is that control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling, and WS discovery and selection can be realized using a uniform powerful modeling language. Some uncomplicated tasks, as illustrated before, can be fulfilled without developing or using additional software components or agents. Naturally XML nets can also be combined with other Web service techniques to fulfill more complicated and demanding tasks  7. Acknowledgement  The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for many valuable comments on an earlier version of this paper  8. References  1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching 


1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching Web Service Coordination and Composition by Means of Petri Nets: the Case of the Nets-within-Nets Paradigm?, ICSOC 2005, LNCS 3826, pp.185-197, 2005 2] M. ter Beek, A. Bucchiarone, and S. Gnesi, ?Web Service Composition Approaches: From Industrial Standards to Formal Methods?, Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services \(ICIW?07 Computer Society, 2007 3] X.N. Feng, Q. Liu, and Z. Wang, ?A Web Service Composition Modeling and Evaluation Method Used Petri Net?, LNCS Volume 3842/2006, pp. 905-911, SpringerVerlag, 2006 4] H. Foster, S. Uchitel, J. Magee, and J. Kramer, ?Modelbased verification of Web Service Compositions?, 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 152- 161, 2003 5] X. Fu, T. Bultan, and J.W. Su, ?Analysis of Interacting BPEL Web Services?, WWW2004, pp. 17-22, New York USA, May 2004 6] J.D. Ge, H.Y. Hu, P. Lu, H. Hu, and J. L  Translation of Nets Within Nets in Cross-Organizational Software Process Modeling?, SPW 2005, LNCS 3840, pp. 60-375 Springer-Verlag, 2005 7] Group for program system, faculty of Information Technique University Dortmund, ?PDDL?, http://ls5www.cs.uni-dortmund.de/~edelkamp/ipc-4/pddl.html 8] R. Hamadi and B. Benatallah, ?A Petri Net-based Model for Web Service Composition?, Fourteenth Australasian Database Conference \(ADC2003 CRPIT, Vol. 17, pp. 191-200, 2003 9] S. Hinz, K. Schmidt, and C. Stahl, ?Transforming BPEL to Petri Nets?, BPM 2005, LNCS 3649, pp. 220?235, Springer-Verlag, 2005 10] H. Kang, X.L. Yang, and S.M. Yuan, ?Modeling and verification of Web Services Composition based on CPN 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing-Workshops, pp. 613-617, 2007 11] H.M. Kim, A. Sengupta, and J. Evermann, "MOQ: Web Services Ontologies for QOS and General Quality EvaluaFigure 6. XML net for Web service selection Figure 7. Filter Schema for QoS-aware WS selection owl:Ontology owl:Class rdfs:subClassOf owl:Restriction rdf :resource : "\\s+#costUSCent owl:onProperty owl:maxCardinality   rdf:RDF Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 tions", European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2005 12] S. Klink, Y. Li, and A. Oberweis, "INCOME2010 - a Toolset for Developing Process-Oriented Information Systems Based on Petri Nets", International Workshop on Petri Nets Tools and APplications \(PNTAP 2008, associated to SIMUTools 2008 March 2008 13] O. Kluge, ?Petri nets as a Semantic Model for message Sequence Chart Specifications?, proceedings of INT 2002 pp. 138-147, 2002 14] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, ?Inter-Organizational Business Process Management with XML Nets?, H. Ehrig, W Reisig, G. Rozenberg, H. Weber \(Eds gy for Communication Based Systems, LNCS 2472, pp. 243263, Springer-Verlag, 2003 15] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, "Workflow Services: A Petri Net-Based Approach to Web Services", Int. Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Pa 


Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Paphos/Cyprus, November 2004 16] L. Lin and I.B. Arpinar, ?Discovery of Semantic Relations between Web Services?, IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS?06 17] Q. Lin, J.D. Ge, H. Hu, and J. Lu, ?An Approach to Model Cross-Organizational Processes using Object Petri net?, 2007 IEEE Congress on Services \(SERVICES 2007 pp. 146-152, July 2007 18] H. Ludwig, A. Keller, A. Dan, R. P. King, and R Franck, ?Web Service level Agreement \(WSLA Specification version 1.0?, IBM, 2003 19] N. Lohmann, P. Massuthe, C. Stahl, and D. Weinberg Analyzing Interacting BPEL Process?, S. Dustdar, J.L. Fiadeiro, and A. Sheth \(Eds 32, Springer-Verlag, 2006 20] S.A. Mcllraith and T.C. Son, ?Adapting Golog for Composition of Semantic Web Services?, 8th International Conference on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning KR2002 21] S.A. Mcllraith, T.C. Son, and H.L. Zeng, ?Semantic Web Services?, IEEE Intelligent Systems, March/April 2001 16\(2 22] N. Milanovic and M. Malek, ?Current Solution for Web Service Composition?, IEEE Internet Computing, NovemberDecember 2004 23] S. Narayanan and S.A. Mcllraith, ?Simulation, Verification and Automated Composition of Web Service?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 24] The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards \(OASIS Process Execution Language Version 2.0?, 11 April, 2007 http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsbpel/2.0/wsbpel-v2.0.pdf 25] S.R. Ponnekanti and A. Fox, ?SWORD: a Developer Toolkit for Web Services Composition?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 26] Z.Z. Qian, S.L. Lu, and L. Xie, ?Colored Petri Nets Based Automatic Service Composition?, 2007 IEEE AsiaPacific Services Computing Conference, pp. 431-438, 2007 27] C. Ouyang, E. Verbeek, W.M.P. van der Aalst, S. Breutel1, M. Dumas1, and A.H.M. ter Hofstede1, ?Formal semantics and analysis of Control flow in WS-BPEL?, BPM center Technical Report, BPM-05-15, 2005 28] J.H. Rao and X.M. Su, ?A Survey of Automated Web Service Composition Methods?, SWSWPC 2004, LNCS 3387, pp. 43-54, Springer-Verlag, 2005 29] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Application of Linear Logic to Web Service Composition?, 1st International Conference on Web Services, Las Vegas, USA, June 2003 30] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Logic-based Web Services Composition: From Service Description to Process Model?, 2004 International Conference on Web Services, pp.446-453, San Diego, USA, July 2004 31] M. Sgroi, A. Kondratyev, Y. Watanabe, L. Lavagno and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, ?Synthesis of Petri Nets from Message Sequence Charts Specifications for Protocol Design?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp. 193-199, 2004 32] W.M.P. Van der Aalst, "The Application of Petri Nets to Workflow Management", The Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 8\(1 33] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C Semantic Markup for Web Services?, 22 November, 2004 http://www.w3.org/Submission/OWL-S 34] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vices Choreography Description Language Version 1.0?, 17 December, 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-ws-cdl10-20041217 35] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Choreography Interface \(WSCI 


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





