Automatic Extraction of Fuzzy Domain Ontology Concepts  James N.K. Liu 1 Toby W.H. Lam 1 Hongwei Wang 2 Hillman W.K. Tam 1  1 Department of Computing, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong csnkliu, cshwlam}@comp.polyu.edu.hk 2 School of Economics and Management, Tongji University, Shanghai China hwwang@tongji.edu.cn   Abstract 000 We present an Automatic Ontology Concepts Extractor \(AOCE\ for ontology construction. The AOCE extracts concept knowledge from the movie domain articles Two algorithms 1\ the Hundred Surname Artist extraction 
algorithm and 2\ Custom Distance Function with the Fuzzy Genetic Expert System are adopted for the extraction process Experimental results are promising that the system can reduce human efforts for extracting concepts and knowledge from similar articles in a specific domain. The proposed methodology demonstrates the potentials of automatic ontology construction and creation, which are the big incentive for further research  Keywords-domain ontology;  fuzzy;  automatic extraction I  I NTRODUCTION  The major bottleneck in information processing is the lack of an effective automated solution to transform data into meaningful information or knowledge. Although the 
semantic web becomes popular, such as Google YouTube the application of the ontology concept using relation tagging by users, and corresponding staff administration of the website, still it involves a large amount of human resources. For example, the IMDB movie management site and Wikipedia website, they both want to discover the knowledge and allow their clients to search for the information across the knowledge. However, to achieve this goal, they must face a big challenge which is how to tag and link up those concepts. The Tagging process costs many of expertise efforts and takes long time. Facing with the information growth at an exponential speed, human tagging 
is not a possible solution Ontology is a specification of a conceptualization which is used to describe the objects and the relations between them in a domain [1  A l s o  o n t o l o g y d e f i n e s  a s e t  o f  representational primitives with which to model a domain of knowledge or discourse [2 c c o rd i ngl y  o n t o l o gy  e n ab l e s advanced functionality in knowledge management systems and forms the knowledge base for future innovations. For examples, it can be used for developing the intelligent search engine, content management system like Wikipedia etc. Those reasons let us have the utmost incentive to develop the autonomic solution for extracting ontology concepts from fuzzy problem domain 
This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we show the algorithm of AOCE and ontology construction. In Section 3, we present the implementation details. In Section 4, we show the experiment result. Conclusions are drawn in Section 5 II  R ELATED WORK  There are currently no fully automatic approaches to the construction of domain ontologies although there are a number of semi-automatic approaches. Text-To-Onto [3 constructs and maintains an ontology using data mining and natural language processing techniques. It extracts concepts with a concept association extraction algorithm and can 
reduce and simplify the ontology construction process but does involve a number of manual processes. Text2Onto [4 is a refined version of Text-To-Onto. It utilizes a probabilistic ontology model and a data-driven change discovery strategy to extract the concepts and form the initial relationships without the relationship tag. This can quicken the extraction and association of concepts Ontolearn [5 h i c h ad op ts a s t r u c t u r al s e m a nt i c  interconnections knowledge-based disambiguation algorithm automatically extracts domain terms from online corpora, documents, and glossaries which are interpreted and arranged in a hierarchy. It uses pattern matching to 
select between alternative concepts, e.g. it tries to match up the unknown concepts with the corpus OntoLT i s a p l ugi n f o r Pr ot  g w h i c h l e ar ns ontologies based on linguistic analysis and statistical methods. It employs rules for mapping between linguistic structures and ontological knowledge. Mo’K [7 a  configurable workbench that can be used for ontology building. It takes parsed corpora as the input and uses conceptual clustering methods. ASIUM [8 is  a m ach in e  learning system which uses an unsupervised conceptual clustering method for learning semantic knowledge. It quickens the process for developing an information extraction system. DODDLE II [9 is an en h a n c e d v e rs io n  
of a domain ontology rapid development environment based on the machine-readable dictionary, WordNet. The system is able to acquire conceptual relationships from domainspecific texts by match result analysis and trimmed result analysis. Lately, [10  dev e l o pe d f u zzy on t o l o g y  m a p t h a t  can support fuzzy searching and personalization functions for users such as book recommendation and information filtering. While all of these approaches offer various kinds of improvements to ontology construction, none is fully automatic 
2009 Sixth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery 978-0-7695-3735-1/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/FSKD.2009.666 222 
2009 Sixth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery 978-0-7695-3735-1/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/FSKD.2009.666 222 


III  AOCE ARCHITECTURE  We propose Automatic Ontology Concepts Extractor AOCE\ as shown in Figure 1, an ontology construction algorithm that replaces the manually tagging of concepts and assists in automating ontology construction.  After filtering unrelated concepts, the related concepts are then fed to Fuzzy Genetic Expert System for constructing the ontology tree. AOCE adopts the Hundred Surname Artist extraction algorithm and the Custom Distance Function with the Fuzzy Genetic Expert System for extracting concept knowledge from movie domain websites. In addition, we collect Chinese articles for the analysis The development of AOCE involves the preparation of domain data and four major parts in support of ontology extraction from the movie archive. Figure 2 shows the workflow of ontology construction. A brief discussion of the associated processes is given below A. Data Preprocessing We collected 52 articles \(in Chinese\ from a magazine City Entertainment Bi-Weekly [11  w h ich a r e  rel a te d t o  five different movies, Initial D, Battle Of Wits, Confessions Of Pain, Isabella, and Infernal Affairs. Table I shows the number of articles collected per each movie. The articles need to be preprocessed by the system, segmented to form as either an article-based dataset or a sentence-based dataset An article-based dataset retains its original format. A sentence-based dataset is stored as sentences, using the HowNet Dictionary [12  w h ich pr ov i d es an on lin e  C h in es eEnglish bilingual lexical ontology that describes semantic relationships between concepts and the relationships between the attributes of concepts. It covers over 65,000 concepts in Chinese, equivalent to about 75,000 concepts in English. HowNet has defined over 110,000 robust concepts   T h e se gm e n t e d e l e m e n t sho u l d be  a n o un or s o m e t h i ng unknown which is not defined by the HowNet HowNet Dictionary 1.1 Segmentation Process 1.2 Movie Conception Extraction Process 1.3 Artist Concept Extraction Process 1.4 Fuzzy Key Concept Generator Distance Function Apply 1.5 Initial Concepts Extractor 2.1 Fuzzy Transaction Format Process 2.1.1 Formation Method 2.1.2 Article Based Transaction Forming Process 2.1.3 Sentence Based Transaction Forming Process 2.1.4 Sentence  Based Transaction Forming Process with TF-IDF 4.1 Apriori Algorithm with Fuzzy Transaction Data Set Data Mining Server Concept Extraction System with Distance Function City Entertainment Movie Articles Artist Movie Database 1.6 Concept Monitor Knowl edge Monitor Ontology Forming Server CMS Server 3 Model Training Model Testing 1. Concept Extraction System 2. Transaction Forming System 3. Data Mining System --Apriori 3. Fuzzy Expert System Fuzzy with GA Provide Model Provide Model Figure 1.     AOCE Architecture  Movie Articles Automatic Concept Extractor Extracted Concepts Custom Distance Function Fuzzy Expert System Adjust Distance Function Model of the similarity Ontology Buildling Ontology NO YES  Figure 2.   Workflow of ontology construction in AOCE T ABLE I  S AMPLE ARTICLES  Movie Name Number of Articles In Chinese In English 026p\005®\006 D Initial D 12 025`\007  Battle Of Wits 12 020ž\011  Confessions Of Pain 10 006R\016N\007æ\010  Isabella 9 017¤\020t\022\020  Infernal Affairs 9 Total: 52 B. AOCE Functional Components 1\ Concept Extraction We extract concepts from the articles using linguistic resources. Typically, for the extraction of artist’s names, we have come up with an algorithm based on the information about Hundred Family Surnames W e collected  444 s u rn a m es  w h ich h a v e on e  Chinese character and 60 surnames with double Chinese characters. Table II gives the details of the algorithm    
223 
223 


 T ABLE II  A RTIST EXTRACTION  Algorithm ArtistExtractor c  Input: A String c Output: An list of all nameList without repetitions 1  Segmentation the article 2  Check surnames dictionary 3  If  token in surnames dictionary then 3.1  Token + 1 strings followed with token 3.2  Token + 2 strings followed with token 3.3  Token + 3 strings followed with token 4  Check with Artist Database 5  Calculate the frequency count distribution and using the mean value for the threshold 6  Evaluate and tune the threshold  The Fuzzy Key Concept Generator helps to extract key concepts. The filter engine is based on the trained model from the Fuzzy Expert System with Custom Distance Function. The extracted key concepts will then form the Ontology relation by using Apriori algorithm \(e.g  The Custom Distance \(CD\function is used for measuring the words distribution in the articles. Eq. \(1\sed for computing the CD value. The CD value will then be used to form the fuzzy model for extracting the important concepts 000¦\000 000  002 003 003 003 003 002 004 005 004 1 1       Max CD   1 where 002 is the number of articles which contain the keyword 003 is the article number 004 is the sentence number which has the keyword in the article 005 is the total number of sentences in the article 2\ Transaction Forming The Fuzzy Custom Distance Function is used to filter th e key concepts. User needs to specify which format transaction for performing Apriori data mining and extracting the relationships. There are two format transactions: Article-based and Sentence based Article based transaction works on the concept keys and gets the appearance number on each article. Each article contains all of the concept keys and appearance numbers The number of the appearance of the key concept in the particular article will form one transaction. We first extract the key concepts from article, then use the Custom Distance Function with fuzzy model to filter the useless concepts and build the transaction. User can choose the TF-IDF \(term frequency – inverse document frequency\ [16 m o d e o r no n TF-IDF mode. The TF-IDF mode transaction uses importance weight for the value of the filtered key concepts On the other hand, it will use the number of appearances for the value of the element. It makes use of statistical technique to evaluate how important a term is to a document. The importance increases proportionally to the number of times a word appears in the document but is offset by how common the word is in all of the documents in the document collection.TF-IDF is often used by search engines to find the most relevant documents to a user’s query Sentence based transaction requires each transaction to include all of the concept keys. And the appearances number of each element in the sentence will be recorded in the transaction. The system provides the TF-IDF mode and Appearance rate mode to form the sentence base transaction 3\ Fuzzy Expert System Zadeh [17 sa y s th at rath er th a n  regarding fuzzy theory as a single theory, we should regard the process of ``fuzzification'' as a methodology to generalize ANY specific theory from a crisp \(discrete\ a continuous \(fuzzy\orm. Thus recently researchers have also introduced "fuzzy calculus", "fuzzy differential equations". Our system involves fuzzy rules typically for information searching. Theref ore, the antecedent of these rules will be a logic expression relating a set of fuzzy variables. The fuzzy variable is defined by the name of physical variable and a qualifier. We also incorporate with a trained Genetic Algorithm \(GA\ to help adjust the linguistic valuables. We apply fuzzy set and rules to adjust the distance function. The distance and the frequency count can be fuzzified by using the custom distance function discussed earlier For the GA encoding, we use 32 bits \(4 x 8 bits\o represent a linguistic variable such as LOW, MED or HIGH For the rule set, given a particular rule number, the corresponding antecedent combination will be encoded and appended to the chromosome with bits This antecedent combination will be passed on to GA Model which in turn randomize the part of all the rules to 0 or 1 related to the movie article / not related to the movie article For the GA decoding, the genes representing the linguistic variables \(represented by four vertices\ each of the attributes are decoded based on a decimal integer, and then multiplied by 1 2 1 8  since the range of attributes is from 0 to 1. The decoded values of the new chromosome will be passed through a fitness function to measure its performance in each generation 4\ Data Mining After we the selection of the transaction record, the Apriori algorithm is applied for mining the relation of the key concepts. The system can use the extracted information to form the upper ontology. The upper-level ontology is an ontology that can provide a set of generic concepts which can be shared and reused by different users. It describes the general concepts across different domains. To model this upper-level movie ontology, we have collected and analyzed a large number of movie guides and related magazines. We make use of the modeled ontology to further develop a movie guiding prototype system IV  E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND ANALYSIS  A prototype system is developed for training and learning the Movie Ontology. The system was developed by using Java J2SDK 1.6.0.4. We adopted HowNet for segmentation process. The movie and artist database were stored in the MySQL 5.0 database servers. It contains 3956 movies information and 11493 artist details. The AOCE uses the OWL to generate the ontology tree for concept extraction 
224 
224 


 A fuzzy model is required at the initial step of the system development. The model was trained by using three sets of articles. Two attributes are used to describe the articles, and each attribute ha s three linguistic valuables The attribute 1 is “Appearance Rate” which has three linguistic valuables: Low, Middle, High. The attribute 2 is Distance” which has three linguistic valuables: Top Middle, Bottom. The threshold of the fuzzy model is set as 0.73. Then, we used 3 other sets of non-related movie articles for training. The experiments include 5 cases and each case will be tested with 2 different transactions Article base and Sentences base Table III shows that the precision of related movie extraction on average is 96.18%. In particularly, in the Battle of Wits, the Precision is 100%; however the Infernal Affairs just gives 90.91%, probably due to some typo errors in the article. The application of the Hundred Family Surnames algorithm leads to an average precision of 90.36% \(see Table IV T ABLE III  R ESULTS FOR RELATED MOVIE EXTRACTION  Movie Name No. of Movie Concepts MC No. of Correct Movie Concepts MCC Prec Initial D 39 38 97.44 Battle Of Wits 27 27 100.00 Confessions Of Pain 50 48 96.00 Isabella 29 28 96.55 Infernal Affairs 33 30 90.91  Average 96.18  T ABLE IV  R ESULTS FOR ARTIST EXTRACTION  Movie Name MC MCC Fitness Initial D 22 20 90.91 Battle Of Wits 20 17 85.00 Confessions Of Pain 28 27 96.43 Isabella 19 17 89.47 Infernal Affairs 34 30 90.01  Average 90.36  T ABLE V  R ESULTS FOR KEY CONCEPTS EXTRACTION  Movie Name MC MCC Prec Initial D 155 126 81.29 Battle Of Wits 244 223 91.39 Confessions Of Pain 151 121 80.13 Isabella 97 77 79.38 Infernal Affairs 190 172 90.53  Average  84.54  The fuzzy model was trained by using 2 sets of the movie data. The system randomly chooses 70% of data for training and 30% for testing and the fitness of the model is 72.36%. Table 5 shows the average fitness of extraction being 84.54% based on the advice of City Entertainment staff. Table VI shows that the Apriori mining algorithm can extract the correct relation with high precision in article based transaction. However, it requires the adoption a low minimum support \(S\ value in sentence based transaction see Table VII\over, the concept was drilled down more deeply to let the extractor extract a more detailed relationship T ABLE VI  R ELATION EXTRACTION PER ARTICLE BASED TRANSACTION  MINIMUM SUPPORT   80 Movie Name No. of Relations R No. of Correct Relations CR Prec Initial D 478 452 94.56 Battle Of Wits 216 195 90.28 Confessions Of Pain 96 88 91.67 Isabella 42 41 97.62 Infernal Affairs 205 191 93.17  Average 93.46  T ABLE VII  R ELATION EXTRACTION PER SENTENCE BASED TRANSACTION  Movie Name R CR Prec Min. S Initial D 46 42 91.30 8.81 Battle Of Wits 45 38 84.44 9.82 Confessions Of Pain 45 40 88.89 11.98 Isabella 60 58 96.67 8.94 Infernal Affairs 90 82 91.11 5.57  Average 90.48 9.02 V  C ONCLUSION  The proposed prototype system gives promising results and can reduce human efforts to extract the concepts and knowledge from the similar articles in movie domain. It demonstrates the potentials of automatic construction of ontology concepts in fuzzy domain of interest. Future work shall be to exploit the integration of the ontology extractor with some Ontology Translation engine which could automatically translate the relation knowledge from the system extraction to form an upper ontology. The ontology can then collaborate with the content management system and search engine for further application including the checking of correct and consistent ontology construct A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work is partially supported by RGC Grant polyU5237/08E, CRG Grant 1-ZV41 and the NSFC Grant No.70501024  R EFERENCES  1  E. Quintarelli, Folksonomies: Power to the People http://www.iskoi.org/doc/folksonomies.htm, 2008 2  M. Guy, and E. Tonkin, “Folksonomies: Tidying up Tags D-Lib Magazine Vol. 12\(1\, 2006 3  A. Maedche, and R. Volz, “The Ontology Extraction and Maintenance Framework Text-to-onto”, Proc. of the ICDM’01 Workshop on Integrating Data Mining and Knowledge Management, 2001 Movie Name R CR Prec Min. S Initial D 46 42 91.30 8.81 Battle Of Wits 45 38 84.44 9.82 Confessions Of Pain 45 40 88.89 11.98 Isabella 60 58 96.67 8.94 Infernal Affairs 90 82 91.11 5.57  Average 90.48 9.02 
225 
225 


 4  P. Cimiano, and J. Völker, “Text2Onto A Framework for Ontology Learning and Data-driven Change Discovery”, Proc of the Int. Conf. on Applications of Natural Language to Information Systems \(NLDB'2005\, pp. 227-238, 2005 5  P. Velardi, R. Navigli, A. Cuchiarelli, and F. Neri Evaluation of Ontolearn, a Methodology for Automatic Population of Domain Ontology Ontology Learning from Text: Methods, Applications and Evaluation, ISO Press, 2 005 6  P. Buitelaar, D. Olejnik, and M. Sintek, “A Protege Plug-in for Ontology Extraction from Text Based on Linguistic Analysis  Proc. of the first European Semantic Web Symposium \(ESWS 2004\, pp.31-44, 2004 7  G. Bisson, C. Nédellec, and D. Cañamero, “Designing clustering methods for ontology building: The Mo’K workbench  Proc. of the ECAI Ontology Learning Workshop, pp. 13-19, 2000 8  D. Faure, and T. Poibeau, “First experiments of Using Semantic Knowledge Learned by ASIUM for Information Extraction Task Using INTEX  Proc. of Ontology Learning ECAI-2000 Workshop, pp.7-12, 2000 9  T. Yamaguchi, “Acquiring Conceptual Relationships from Domain-Specific Texts  Proc. of the Second Workshop on Ontology Learning \(OL’2001\, 2001 10  H.W. Lam,  and James N.K. Liu, “Modeling a Personal Profile by Fuzzy Ontology Map and Its Applications”, Proc of the Int. Conf. on Fuzzy Systems \(FUZZ2008\, in IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence \(WCCI2008 Hong Kong, June 1-6, 2008 11  City Entertainment Bi-Weekly http://www.iatolife.com/CEDB/, 2008 12  Z. Dong and Q. Dong HowNet  http;//www.keenage.com, 2008-11-26 13  K. W. Gan, C. Y. Wang, and Brian Mak, “Knowledge-based Sense Pruning Using the HowNet: an Alternative to Word Sense Disambiguation”, Proc. of Int. Symposium of Chinese Spoken Language Processing, pp. 189-192, 2002 14  Hundred Family Surnames, http://en.wikipedia.org wiki/Hundred_Family_Surnames, 2008 15  R. Agrawal, H. Mannila, R. Srikant, H. Toivonen, and A Verkamo, “Fast Discovery of Associate Rules”, Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, U.M Fayyad, G Piatesky-Shapiro, P. Smyth and R. Uthurusamy \(eds.\, MIT Press, pp. 307-328, 1996 16  G. Salton, and C. Buckley, “Term Weighting Approaches in Automatic Text Retrieval”, Technical Report, Ithaca, NY USA, 1987 17  L. A. Zadeh, “Fuzzy Sets”, Information and Control, vol. 8 pp. 338-353, 1965  
226 
226 


Rover 1 880 nm Rover 2 440 nm Rover 2 880 nm Figure 6 Typical sun images from the 4 pancams On rover 2 880 nm two ghost images with a brightness of 5.6 are observed This is caused by reflections between the ND5 filter and the two wedged surfaces of the uncoated sapphire cover glass Tigure 7 Ghost images from Rover 1 and Rover 2 880 nm This ghost is due to a reflection of the focal plane and the ND5 filter 6 Rover 1 440 nm 


case the solar elevation a contrast enhanced picture using another filter not the a part of the horizon shows up an image of the sun close to the horizon is shown in Figure 9 In this Figure 8 Optical design of the Pancams When imaging the as a bright reflection The sun filter taken approximately at the was 3.5 degrees and the distance to the horizon sun close to the horizon left On the right is shown sun identification algorithm is robust towards this type of phenomenon 7 same time to show how the left image fits into the scenery It is observed in the left image that was 1.4 degrees Figure 9 Image of the LAYOUT PRNCRM F/20 16X16 OEG 22,5 OIAG 1024-12 0.405-1.06 UM MON SEP 23 2001 ET PROPULSION LABORATORY 6.00 MILLIMETERS 1  1 sun near the horizon much of the sunlight is attenuated in the Martian atmosphere Also when imaging close to the horizon glints from the Martian surface and horizon will also be imaged An example of 


6 ATTENUATION IN THE MARTIAN ATMOSPHERE An investigation of the sun attenuation through the Martian atmosphere has been performed This investigation included all pancam images for both rovers of the sun acquired though the sun filters for the first 1200 days of operations The solar signal B as defined in 5 was plotted as a function of airmass The solar signal B was normalized to 0 0 0 Exposure time of 1 second Mars-Sun distance of 1.52 AU Transmission though the optics at boresight removing off axis signal attenuation Solar elevation was converted into air masses utilizing the law of atmospheres as follows P  P e mgy kBT 9 where P0 is the pressure at the surface m is the average molecular mass g is the gravitational acceleration kB is Boltzmann's constant T is the atmosphere temperature y is the altitude in meters above the surface It was assumed that  the atmosphere consists exclusively of CO2  the atmosphere temperature is constantly 1 800K it really depends on time of day and season and decreases with altitude  atmospheric extinction is proportional to the pressure the pressure along a sun direction angle would represent the air mass at a specific sun elevation angle The number of air masses for a given sun elevation angle is then found by integrating the pressure along a path from the Martian surface towards infinity along the sun direction and normalizing it by dividing by the pressure integration path from the Martian surface towards zenith as sketched in Figure 10 The Martian atmosphere attenuates the sun approximately according to the following equation 10 I  Io eX where Io is the sun intensity outside the Martian atmosphere and X is the number of air masses that the sunlight travels though and x is an atmospheric constant The result of the investigation is shown in Figure 11 and summarized in Table 1 All observed Bs are plotted as a function of the air masses and an exponential curve is fitted to the data Langley plot The two parameters for the exponential curve are the atmospheric constant x and the sun intensity Io outside the atmosphere It is observed in Table 1 and Figure 11 that the exponential fit to the observations is not perfect This results in some uncertainty on the determination on x It is assumed that exponential atmosphere model for the Martian atmosphere is only accurate to 15 on the calculated x Also due to the high filter density the Sun filters were not fully characterized before launch It is plausible that the filter transmission of the two cameras are different 7 SEASONAL CHANGES IN THE MARTIAN ATMOSPHERE 0 Figure 10 Integration paths for determining air masses The vertical line represents the integrated air mass which is defined to be the air mass at zenith Integrating 3 This data was released at the time of writing this paper 8 


Rover 1 880 nm y  1.8576E+06e-9.3160E-0lx 7 000000 S 0 5000000 4000000 _ 3000000 2000000 1000000  U 4 6000000 5000000 0 4000000 x 3000000  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Airm ass Rover 1 440 nm on horizontal surfaces On were plotted on the lens and furthermore that the atmosphere is getting on Mars Shortly after the latest data shown in this paper on Mars with in as a function of the time since landing The result is shown in Figure 12 Mars has fine 1-micron dust suspended in the atmosphere Dust settles out of the atmosphere at are pointed down when not in as the Martian winter sets in and it gets colder Seasonal changes more slowly year is 687 Earth days The pattern repeats itself somewhat season on Mars The estimated mass were used to estimate for all available Pancam observations  14600 images The values of was also investigated how the atmospheric constant x changes with the was not public available Interestingly related to dust accumulation over a year The spikes in observed in Figure 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10000000 9000000 8000000 Airm ass Figure 11 The attenuation in the Martian atmosphere Table 1 Properties of the Martian atmosphere Rover 1 440 nm Rover 2 440 nm Rover 1 880 nm Rover 2 880n um 0.93 0.72 1.07 0.87 Sun Brightness 1.8 106 DN 1.5 106 DN 2.3 107 DN 1.4 107 DN 7 SEASONAL CHANGES IN THE MARTIAN ATMOSPHERE It a rate that depends on the geographical position and time of the year 7 Estimates of the settling rate predict that obscuration y  2.2958E+07e-1.0730E+00x 8 9 10 cause the variations in x The Martian rover solar panels have increased several over night The mechanism is not well understood but I n Airmasses Rover 2 440 nm y 1.5734E+06e-7 1597E-01x U aC n 5 6 Airmass Rover 2 880 nm 9000000 8000000 7000000 y  1 3639E+07e-8 7269E-01x are believed to a number of occasions the output from the a dust storm cleaning the dust of the panels is sun brightness and the air one plausible explanation 9 sun brightness outside the Martian atmosphere the observed normalized on a horizontal surface like a solar panel increases 0.3\2600 per Martian day 8 Martian dust will accumulate on protected vertical surfaces The Pancams use to limit the dust accumulation 9 It is observed from Figure 12 that is decreasing during the first part of the mission This indicates that there is no significant dust accumulation more transparent are believed to be caused by dust storms a dust storm broke out excess of 3 At the time of writing this paper that data 


0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Days 24h since Rover 1 440 nm Rover 1 880 nm Figure 12 Daily values of the atmospheric constant T 8 CONCLUSIONS This paper has described the Pancams EDL Rover 2 440 nm 2.5 T 1.5 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Days 24h since EDL Rover 2 880 nm 2.5 EDL 2.5T 2 on the MER on the horizon was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under on all was conducted Based means that the cover glass On never get high are significant ghost images of the or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1 URL Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena US vers.,html cited 12/29/2004 2 J F Bell III et al Pancam Multispectral Imaging Results from the Opportunity Rover at Meridiani Planum Science Vol 306 Issue 5702 1703-1709  3 December 2004 3 G.H.Smith E.C.Hagerott L.M.Scherr K.E.Herkenhoff J.F.Bell III Optical designs for the Mars 03 sun close to the horizon is presented It shows that locations rover 2 880 nm the ghost contains 10 of the primary image intensity A future mission to Mars Mars Science Laboratory will potentially land at high latitudes rover cameras Proceedings of SPIE Vol 4441-14 4 A Eisenman et al Mars Exploration Rover Engineering Cameras SPIE Proceedings of International Symposium sun Also on the Martian surface During Martian winter time this a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process sun in the pictures caused by reflections in the sun will sun images an image of the can be similar brightness sun images A number of representative images have been presented It is observed that there sun near the horizon in order to obtain attitude information An example of EDL 2.5 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Days 24h since rovers that acquire the sun and the position measurement processing of over the horizon and the pancams will have to image the as the an investigation to determine the atmospheric constant of the Martian atmosphere in the 440 nm and the 880 nm band was established to be 0.9 A seasonal change and dust storms in u is observed ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The research described here or service by trademark manufacturer or otherwise does not constitute on 10 0 200 40D 600 24h sin 1200 Days 24h since 


Remote Sensing 17 21 September 2001 Toulouse France 5 A Eisenman C.C.Liebe R.Perez Sun Sensing on the Mars Exploration Rovers Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference Volume 5 9-16 March 2002 Pages 5-2249 5-2262 vol.5 6 C.C.Liebe accuracy Performance of Star Trackers A Tutorial IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems AES volume 38 No 2 April 2002 pp 587 599 7 Howard A Perko John D Nelson and Jacklyn R Green Review Of Martian Dust Composition Transport Deposition Adhesion And Removal Proceedings of Space 2002 a biannual conference of the American Society of Civil Engineers _ Dr Lawrence Scherr is an  l 2-li designer He received an MS.S in _  Il _  Physics from university of  received his Ph.D in biophysics from U C Berkeley in 1980 He   I ranalyzed stray light on an enjoyable variety of optiCS Tese include prototype medical instruments intraocular lenses scaterometers large surveillance telescopes automated optical test systems and Mars camera lenses 8 Geoffrey A Landis Materials Adherence Experiment Results From Mars Pathfinder Proceedings of the 26th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference 1997 IEEE NJ 1997 pp 865-869 ISBN 0-7803-3767-0 9 C.C.Liebe L.Scherr R Wilson Sun Induced Veiling Glare in Dusty Camera Optics SPIE Optical Engineering Febuary 2004 Vol 43 No 2p 493-499 Biographies Dr Carl Christian Liebe received the M.S.E.E degree in 1991 and the Ph.D degree in 1994 from the Department of Electrophysics Technical University of Denmark Since 1997 he has been an employee at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology Currently he is a senior member of the technical staff in the Active Optical Sensing Group He has authored/co-authored more than 50 papers Jim Alexander received an A.B from U.C Berkeley and an M.A and C Phil from UCLA Since 1983 he has been heavily involved at JPL in star tracker and scanner testing analysis requirements scene simulation calibration algorithm design and implementation for missions such as the Astro-1 shuttle experiment Mars Pathfinder and the Cassini spacecraft Currently he is the MSL lead for surface GNC and the supervisor for the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group at JPL 11 


 12 The process  t  Y  t  h  t  is called the intensity process  of the counting process.  It is a stochastic process that is determined by the information contained in the history process F t via Y  t  Y  t  records the number of individuals experiencing the risk at a given time t   As it will become clear that   t is equivalent to the failure rate or hazard function in tr aditional reliability theory, but here it is treated as a stochastic process, the most general form one can assume for it. It is this generalization that encapsulates the power that counting stochastic process approach can offer to survival analysis  Let the cumulative intensity process H  t be defined as   t t ds s t H 0 0      53  It has the property that  E  N  t  F t  E  H  t  F t  H  t   54  This implies that filtration F t, is known, the value of Y  t  fixed and H  t es deterministic H  t is equivalent to the cumulative hazards in tr aditional reliability theory  A stochastic process with the property that its expectation at time t given history at time s < t is equal to its value at s is called a martingale That is M  t martingale if           t s s M F t M E s  55  It can be verified that the stochastic process         t H t N t M 56  is a martingale, and it is called the counting process martingale The increments of the counting process martingale have an expected value of zero, given its filtration F t That is  0      t F t dM E 57 The first part of the counting process martingale [Equation 56  N  t non-decreasing step function.  The second part H  t smooth process which is predictable in that its value at time t is fixed just prior to time t It is known as the compensator  of the counting process and is a random function. Therefore, the martingale can be considered as mean-zero noise and that is obtainable when one subtracts the smoothly varying compensator from the counting process  Another key component in the counting process and martingale theory for survival analysis is the notion of the predictable variation process of M  t oted by    t M It is defined as the compensator of process   2 t M  The term predictable variation process comes from the property that, for a martingale M  t it can be verified that the conditional variance of the increments of M  t  dM  t  h e inc r em ents of   t M That is          t M d F t dM Var t  58  To obtain      t F t dM Var  one needs the random variable N  t  variable with probability   t of having a jump of size 1 at time t The variance of N  t   t  1 t   since it follows b i nom ial distribution    Ignoring the ties in the censored data 2  t  is close to zero and Var  dM  t  F t    t  Y  t  h  t   This implies that the counting process N  t on the filtration F t behaves like a Poisson process with rate  t    Why do we need to convert the previous very intuitive concepts in survival analysis in to more abstract martingales The key is that many of the sta tistics in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of the basic martingales described above The stochastic integral equations are mathematically well structured and some standard mathematical techniques for studying them can be adopted  Here, let   t K be a predictable  process An example of a predictable process is the process   t Y Over the interval 0 to t the stochastic integral of su ch a process, with respect to a martingale, is denoted by     0 u dM u K t It turns out that such stochastic integrals them selves are martingales as a function of t and their predictable variation process can be found from the predictable variation process of the original martingale by           0 2 0 u M d u K u dM u K t t 59 The above discussion was drawn from Klein and Moeschberger \(2003 also provide examples of how the above process is applied. In the following, we briefly introduce one of their exampl es — the derivation of the Nelson-Aalen cumulative hazard estimator  First, the model is formulated as           t dM dt t h t Y t dN  60  If   t Y is non-zero, then               t Y t dM t d t h t Y t dN 61  Let   t I be the indicator of whether   t Y  is positive and define 0/0 = 0, then integrating both sides of above \(61 One get 


 13                     0 0 0 u dM u Y u I u d u h u I u dN u Y u I t t t 62  The left side integral is the Nelson-Aalen estimator of H t           0  u dN u Y u I t H t 63  The second integral on the right side           0 u dM u Y u I t W t 64  is the stochastic integral of the predictable process      u Y u I with respect to a martingale, and hence is also a martingale  The first integral on the right side is a random quantity    t H   t du u h u I t H 0        65  For right-censored data it is equal to   t H  in the data range, if the stochastic uncertainty in the   t W is negligible Therefore, the statistic    t H is a nonparametric estimator of the random quantity    t H   We would like to mention one more advantage of the new approach, that is, the martingale central limit theorem.  The central limit theorem of martingales ensures certain convergence property and allows the derivations of confidence intervals for many st atistics.  In summary, most of the statistics developed with asymptotic likelihood theory in survival analysis can be derived as the stochastic integrals of some martingale.  The large sample properties of the statistics can be found by using the predictable variation process and martingale central limit theorem \(Klein and Moeschberger \(2003  2.7. Bayesian Survival Analysis  Like many other fields of statistics, survival analysis has also witnessed the rapid expansion of the Bayesian paradigm.  The introduction of the full-scale Bayesian paradigm is relative recent and occurred in the last decade however, the "invasion" has been thorough.  Until the recent publication of a monograph by Ibrahim, Chen and Sinhaet 2005\val anal ysis has been either missing or occupy at most one chapter in most survival analysis monographs and textbooks.  Ibrahim's et al. \(2005\ changed the landscape, with their comprehensive discussion of nearly every counterp arts of frequentist survival analysis from univariate to multivariate, from nonparametric, semiparametric to parametric models, from proportional to nonproportional hazards models, as well as the joint model of longitudinal and survival data.  It should be pointed out that Bayesian survival analysis has been studied for quite a while and can be traced back at least to the 1970s  A natural but fair question is what advantages the Bayesian approach can offer over the established frequentist survival analysis. Ibrahim et al 2005\entified two key advantages. First, survival models are generally very difficult to fit, due to the complex likelihood functions to accommodate censoring.  A Bayesi an approach may help by using the MCMC techniques and there is available software e.g., BUGS.  Second, the Bayesian paradigm can incorporate prior information in a natural way by using historical information, e.g., from clinical trials. The following discussion in this subsection draws from Ibrahim's et al. \(2005  The Bayesian paradigm is based on specifying a probability model for the observed data, given a vector of unknown parameters This leads to likelihood function L   D   Unlike in traditional statistics is treated as random and has a prior distribution denoted by   Inference concerning is then based on the posterior distribution which can be computed by Bayes theorem d D L D L D              66 where is the parameter space  The term    D is proportional to the likelihood    D L  which is the information from observed data, multiplied by the prior, which is quantified by   i.e          D L D 67 The denominator integral m  D s the normalizing constant of    D and often does not have an analytic closed form Therefore    D often has to be computed numerically The Gibbs sampler or other MCMC algorithms can be used to sample    D without knowing the normalizing constant m  D xist large amount of literature for solving the computational problems of m  D nd    D   Given that the general Bayesian algorithms for computing the posterior distributions should equally apply to Bayesian survival analysis, the specification or elicitation of informative prior needs much of the atte ntion.  In survival analysis with covariates such as Cox's proportional hazards model, the most popular choice of informative prior is the normal prior, and the most popular choice for noninformative is the uniform Non-informative prior is easy to use but they cannot be used in all applications, such as model selection or model comparison. Moreover, noninformative prior does not harness the real prior information. Therefore, res earch for informative prior specification is crucial for Bayesian survival analysis  


 14 Reliability estimation is influenced by the level of information available such as information on components or sub-systems. Bayesians approach is likely to provide such flexibility to accommodate various levels of information Graves and Hamada \(2005\roduced the YADAS a statistical modeling environment that implements the Bayesian hierarchical modeli ng via MCMC computation They showed the applications of YADES in reliability modeling and its flexibility in processing hierarchical information. Although this environment seems not designed with Bayesian surviv al analysis, similar package may be the direction if Bayesian survival analysis is applied to reliability modeling  2.8. Spatial Survival Analysis  To the best of our knowledge spatial survival analysis is an uncharted area, and there has been no spatial survival analysis reported with rigor ous mathematical treatment There are some applications of survival analysis to spatial data; however, they do not address the spatial process which in our opinion should be the essential aspect of any spatial survival analysis. To develop formal spatial survival analysis, one has to define the spatial process first  Recall, for survival analysis in the time domain, there is survival function   R t t T t S  Pr   68  where T is the random variable and S  t e cumulative probability that the lifetime will exceed time t In spatial domain, what is the counterpart of t One may wonder why do not we simply define the survival function in the spatial domain as   S  s  Pr S s  s R d  R > 0  69  where s is some metric for d-dimensional space R d and the space is restricted to the positive region S is the space to event measurement, e.g., the distance from some origin where we detect some point object.  The problem is that the metric itself is an attribute of space, rather than space itself Therefore, it appears to us that the basic entity for studying the space domain has to be broader than in the time domain This is probably why spatial process seems to be a more appropriate entity for studying  The following is a summary of descriptions of spatial processes and patterns, which intends to show the complexity of the issues involved.  It is not an attempt to define the similar survival function in spatial domain because we certainly unders tand the huge complexity involved. There are several monographs discussing the spatial process and patterns \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\.  The following discussion heavily draws from Cressie \(1993\ and Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  It appears that the most widely adopted definition for spatial process is proposed in Cressie \(1993\, which defines a spatial process Z  s in d-dimensions as    Z  s  s D R d  70  Here Z  s denotes the attributes we observe, which are space dependent. When d = 2 the space R 2 is a plane  The problem is how to define randomness in this process According to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005 Z  s an be thought of as located \(indexed\by spatial coordinates s  s 1  s 2  s n  the counterpart of time series Y  t  t   t 1  t 2  t n   indexed by time.  The spatial process is often called random field   To be more explicit, we denote Z  s  Z  s   to emphasize that Z is the outcome of a random experiment  A particular realization of produces a surface    s Z  Because the surface from whic h the samples are drawn is the result of the random experiment Z  s called a random function  One might ask what is a random experiment like in a spatial domain? Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\ offered an imaginary example briefly described below.  Imagine pouring sand from a bucket on to a desktop surface, and one is interested in measuring the depth of the poured sand at various locations, denoted as Z  s The sand distributes on the surface according to the laws of physics.  With enough resources and patience, one can develop a deterministic model to predict exactly how the sand grains are distributed on the desktop surface.  This is the same argument used to determine the head-tail coin flipping experiment, which is well accepted in statistical scie nce. The probabilistic coinflip model is more parsimonious than the deterministic model that rests on the exact \(perfect\but hardly feasible representation of a coin's physics. Similarly deterministically modeling the placement of sand grains is equally daunting.  However, th e issue here is not placement of sand as a random event, as Schabenberger and Gotway 2005\phasized.  The issue is that the sand was poured only once regardless how many locations one measures the depth of the sand.  With that setting, the challenge is how do we define and compute the expectation of the random function Z  s Would E  Z  s   s  make sense  Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005\further raised the questions: \(1\to what distribution is the expectation being computed? \(2\ if the random experiment of sand pouring can only be counted once, ho w can the expectation be the long-term average  According to the definition of expectation in traditional statistics, one should repeat the process of sand pouring many times and consider the probability distributions of all surfaces generated from the repetitions to compute the expectation of Z  s is complication is much more serious 


 15 than what we may often reali ze. Especially, in practice many spatial data is obtained from one time space sample only. There is not any independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  How is the enormous complexity in spatial statistics currently dealt with? The most commonly used simplification, which has also been vigorously criticized, is the stationarity assumption.  Opponents claim that stationarity often leads to erroneous inferences and conclusions.  Proponents counte r-argue that little progress can be made in the study of non-stationary process, without a good understanding of the stationary issues Schabenberger and Gotway 2005  The strict stationarity is a random field whose spatial distribution is invariant under translation of the coordination.  In other word s, the process repeats itself throughout its domain \(Schabenberger and Gotway 2005 There is also a second-order or weak\ of a random field  For random fields in the spatial domain, the model of Equation \(70  Z  s  s D R d  is still too general to allow statistical inference.  It can be decomposed into several sub-processes \(Cressie 1993             s s s W s s Z  D s  71  where  s  E  Z  is a deterministic mean structure called large-scale variation W  s is the zero-mean intrinsically stationary process, \(with second order derivative\nd it is called smooth small-scale variation   s is the zero-mean stationary process independent of W  s and is called microscale variation  s  is zero-mean white noise also called measurement error. This decomposition is not unique and is largely operational in nature \(Cressie 1993\he main task of a spatial algorithm is to determine the allocations of the large, small, and microscale components However, the form of the above equation is fixed Cressie 1993\, implying that it is not appropriate to sub-divide one or more of the items. Therefore, the key issue here is to obtain the deterministic  s  but in practice, especially with limited data, it is usually very difficult to get a unique  s   Alternative to the spatial domain decomposition approach the frequency domain methods or spectral analysis used in time series analysis can also be used in spatial statistics Again, one may refer to Schabenberger and Gotway \(2005  So, what are the imp lications of the general discussion on spatial process above to spatial survival analysis?  One point is clear, Equation \(69 S  s  Pr S s   s R d is simply too naive to be meaningful.  There seem, at least, four fundamental challenges when trying to develop survival analysis in space domain. \(1\ process is often multidimensional, while time pr ocess can always be treated as uni-dimensional in the sense that it can be represented as  Z  t  t R 1  The multidimensionality certainly introduces additional complications, but that is still not the only complication, perhaps not even the most significant 2\One of the fundamental complications is the frequent lack of independent replication in the sense of observing several independent realizations of the spatial process, as pointed out by Cressie \(1993\\(3\e superposition of \(1 and \(2\brings up even more complexity, since coordinates  s of each replication are a set of stochastic spatial process rather than a set of random variables. \(4\n if the modeling of the spatial process is separable from the time process, it is doubtful how useful the resulting model will be.  In time process modeling, if a population lives in a homogenous environment, the space can be condensed as a single point.  However, the freezing of time seems to leave out too much information, at least for survival analysis Since the traditional survival analysis is essentially a time process, therefore, it should be expanded to incorporate spatial coordinates into original survival function.  For example, when integrating space and time, one gets a spacetime process, such as          R t R D s t s Z d   where s is the spatial index \(coordinate t is time.  We may define the spatial-temporal survival function as   S  s  t  Pr T t  s D  72  where D is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidean space That is, the spatial-temporal survival function represents the cumulative probability that an individual will survive up to time T within hyperspace D which is a subset of the d dimensional Euclidian space.  One may define different scales for D or even divide D into a number of unit hyperspaces of measurement 1 unit  2.9. Survival Analysis and Artificial Neural Network   In the discussion on artificial neuron networks \(ANN Robert & Casella \(2004\noted, "Baring the biological vocabulary and the idealistic connection with actual neurons, the theory of neuron networks covers: \(1\odeling nonlinear relations between explanatory and dependent explained\ariables; \(2\mation of the parameters of these models based on a \(training\ sample."  Although Robert & Casella \(2004\ did not mentioned survival analysis, their notion indeed strike us in that the two points are also the essence of Cox s \(1972\roportional Hazards model  We argue that the dissimilarity might be superficial.  One of the most obvious differences is that ANN usually avoids probabilistic modeling, however, the ANN models can be analyzed and estimated from a statistical point of view, as demonstrated by Neal \(1999\, Ripley \(1994\, \(1996 Robert & Casella \(2004\What is more interesting is that the most hailed feature of ANN, i.e., the identifiability of model structure, if one review carefully, is very similar to the work done in survival anal ysis for the structure of the 


 16 Cox proportional hazards model. The multilayer ANN model, also known as back-propagation ANN model, is again very similar to the stratified proportional hazards model  There are at least two advantages of survival analysis over the ANN.  \(1\val analysis has a rigorous mathematical foundation. Counting stochastic processes and the Martingale central limit theory form the survival analysis models as stochastic integral s, which provide insight for analytic solutions. \(2\ ANN, simulation is usually necessary \(Robert & Casella \(2004\which is not the case in survival analysis  Our conjecture may explain a very interesting phenomenon Several studies have tried to integrate ANN with survival analysis.  As reviewed in the next section, few of the integrated survival analysis and ANN made significant difference in terms of model fittings, compared with the native survival analysis alone The indifference shows that both approaches do not complement each other.  If they are essentially different, the inte grated approach should produce some results that are signifi cantly different from the pure survival analysis alone, either positively or negatively Again, we emphasize that our discussion is still a pure conjecture at this stage   3   B RIEF C ASE R EVIEW OF S URVIVAL A NALYSIS A PPLICATIONS     3.1. Applications Found in IEEE Digital Library  In this section, we briefly review the papers found in the IEEE digital library w ith the keyword of survival analysis  search. The online search was conducted in the July of 2007, and we found about 40 papers in total. There were a few biomedical studies among the 40 survival-analysis papers published in IEEE publications. These are largely standard biomedical applications and we do not discuss these papers, for obvious reasons  Mazzuchi et al. \(1989\m ed to be the first to actively  advocate the use of Cox's \(1 972\ proportional hazards model \(PHM\in engineering re liability.  They quoted Cox's 1972\ original words industrial reliability studies and medical studies to show Cox's original motivation Mazzuchi et al \(1989 while this model had a significant impact on the biom edical field, it has received little attention in the reliability literature Nearly two decades after the introducti on paper of Mazzuchi et al 1989\ears that little significant changes have occurred in computer science and IEEE related engineering fields with regard to the proportional hazards models and survival analysis as a whole  Stillman et al. \(1995\used survival analysis to analyze the data for component maintenance and replacement programs Reineke et al. \(1998 ducted a similar study for determining the optimal maintenance by simulating a series system of four components Berzuini and Larizza \(1996 integrated time-series modeling with survival analysis for medical monitoring.  Kauffman and Wang \(2002\analyzed the Internet firm su rvival data from IPO \(initial public offer to business shutdown events, with survival analysis models  Among the 40 survival analysis papers, which we obtained from online search of the IEEE digital library, significant percentage is the integration of survival analysis with artificial neural networks \(ANN In many of these studies the objective was to utilize ANN to modeling fitting or parameter estimation for survival analysis.  The following is an incomplete list of the major ANN survival analysis integration papers found in IEEE digital library, Arsene et 2006 Eleuteri et al. \(2003\oa and Wong \(2001\,  Mani et al 1999\ The parameter estimation in survival analysis is particular complex due to the requirements for processing censored observations. Therefore, approach such as ANN and Bayesian statistics may be helpful to deal with the complexity. Indeed, Bayesian survival analysis has been expanded significantly in recent years \(Ibrahim, et al. 2005  We expect that evolutionary computing will be applied to survival analysis, in similar way to ANN and Bayesian approaches  With regard to the application of ANN to survival analysis we suggest three cautions: \(1\he integrated approach should preserve the capability to process censoring otherwise, survival analysis loses its most significant advantage. \(2\ Caution should be taken when the integrated approach changes model struct ure because most survival analysis models, such as Cox's proportional hazards models and accelerated failure time models, are already complex nonlinear models with built-in failure mechanisms.  The model over-fitting may cause model identifiability  problems, which could be very subtle and hard to resolve 3\he integrated approach does not produce significant improvement in terms of model fitting or other measurements, which seemed to be the case in majority of the ANN approach to survival analysis, then the extra complication should certainly be avoided. Even if there is improvement, one should still take caution with the censor handling and model identifiability issues previously mentioned in \(1\ and \(2  3.2. Selected Papers Found in MMR-2004  In the following, we briefly review a few survival analysis related studies presented in a recent International Conference on Mathematical Methods in Reliability, MMR 2004 \(Wilson et al. 2005  Pena and Slate \(2005\ddressed the dynamic reliability Both reliability and survival times are more realistically described with dynamic models. Dynamic models generally refer to the models that incorporate the impact of actions or interventions as well as thei r accumulative history, which 


 17 can be monitored \(Pena and Slate 2005\he complexity is obviously beyond simple regression models, since the dependence can play a crucial ro le. For example, in a loadsharing network system, failure of a node will increase the loads of other nodes and influences their failures  Duchesne \(2005\uggested incorporating usage accumulation information into the regression models in survival analysis.  To simplify the model building Duchesne \(2005\umes that the usage can be represented with a single time-dependent covariate.  Besides reviewing the hazard-based regression models, which are common in survival analysis, Duchesne 2005\viewed three classes of less commonly used regression models: models based on transfer functionals, models based on internal wear and the so-called collapsible models. The significance of these regression models is that they expand reliability modeling to two dimensions. One dimension is the calendar time and the other is the usage accumulation.  Jin \(2005\ reviewed the recent development in statisti cal inference for accelerated failure time \(AFT\odel and the linear transformation models that include Cox proportional hazards model and proportional odds models as special cases. Two approaches rank-based approach and l east-squares approach were reviewed in Jin \(2005\. Osbo rn \(2005\d a case study of utilizing the remote diagnostic data from embedded sensors to predict system aging or degradation.  This example should indicate the potential of survival analysis and competing risks analysis in the prognostic and health management PHM\ since the problem Osborn \(2005 addressed is very similar to PHM. The uses of embedded sensors to monitor the health of complex systems, such as power plants, automobile, medical equipment, and aircraft engine, are common. The main uses for these sensor data are real time assessment of th e system health and detection of the problems that need immediate attention.  Of interest is the utilization of those remote diagnostic data, in combination with historical reliability data, for modeling the system aging or degradation. The biggest challenge with this task is the proper transformation of wear  time The wear is not only influenced by internal \(temperature, oil pressures etc\xternal covariates ambient temperature, air pressure, etc\, but also different each time   4  S UMMARY AND P ERSPECTIVE   4.1. Summary  Despite the common foundation with traditional reliability theory, such as the same probability definitions for survival function  S  t  and reliability  R  t  i.e  S  t  R  t well as the hazards function the exact same term and definition are used in both fields\rvival analysis has not achieved similar success in the field of reliability as in biomedicine The applications of survival analysis seem still largely limited to the domain of biomedicine.  Even in the sister fields of biomedicine such as biology and ecology, few applications have been conducted \(Ma 1997, Ma and Bechinski 2008\ the engin eering fields, the Meeker and Escobar \(1998\ monograph, as well as the Klein and Goel 1992\ to be the most comprehensive treatments  In Section 2, we reviewed the essential concepts and models of survival analysis. In Section 3, we briefly reviewed some application cases of survival analysis in engineering reliability.  In computer science, survival analysis seems to be still largely unknown.  We believe that the potential of survival analysis in computer science is much broader than network and/or software reliability alone. Before suggesting a few research topics, we no te two additional points  First, in this article, we exclusively focused on univariate survival analysis. There are two other related fields: one is competing risks analysis and the other is multivariate survival analysis The relationship between multivariate survival analysis and survival analysis is similar to that between multivariate statistical analysis and mathematical statistics.  The difference is that the extension from univariate to multivariate in survival analysis has been much more difficult than the developm ent of multivariate analysis because of \(1\rvation cens oring, and \(2\pendency which is much more complex when multivariate normal distribution does not hold in survival data.  On the other hand, the two essential differences indeed make multivariate survival analysis unique and ex tremely useful for analyzing and modeling time-to-event data. In particular, the advantages of multivariate survival analysis in addressing the dependency issue are hardly matched by any other statistical method.  We discuss competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis in separate articles \(Ma and Krings 2008a, b, & c  The second point we wish to note is: if we are asked to point out the counterpart of survival analysis model in reliability theory, we would suggest the shock or damage model.   The shock model has an even longer history than survival analysis and the simplest shock model is the Poisson process model that leads to exponential failure rate model The basic assumption of the shock model is the notion that engineered systems endure some type of wear, fatigue or damage, which leads to the failure when the strengths exceed the tolerance limits of th e system \(Nakagawa 2006 There are extensive research papers on shock models in the probability theory literature, but relatively few monographs The monograph by Nakagawa \(2006\s to be the latest The shock model is often formulated as a Renewal stochastic process or point process with Martingale theory The rigorous mathematical derivation is very similar to that of survival analysis from counting stochastic processes  which we briefly outlined in section 2.6  It is beyond the scope of the paper to compare the shock model with survival analysis; however, we would like to make the two specific comments. \(1\Shock models are essentially the stochastic process model to capture the failure mechanism based on the damage induced on the system by shocks, and the resulting statistical models are 


 18 often the traditional reliability distribution models such as exponential and Weibull failure distributions.  Survival analysis does not depend on specific shock or damage Instead, it models the failure with abstract time-to-event random variables.  Less restrictive assumptions with survival analysis might be more useful for modeling software reliability where the notions of fatigue, wear and damage apparently do not apply.  \(2\hock models do not deal with information censoring, the trademark of failure time data.  \(3\ Shock models, perhaps due to mathematical complexity, have not been applied widely in engineering reliability yet.  In contrast, the applications of survival analysis in biomedical fields are much extensive.  While there have been about a dozen monographs on survival analysis available, few books on shock models have been published.  We believe that survival analysis and shock models are complementary, a nd both are very needed for reliability analysis, with shock model more focused on failure mechanisms and the survival analysis on data analysis and modeling  4.2. Perspective   Besides traditional industrial and hardware reliability fields we suggest that the following fields may benefit from survival analysis  Software reliability Survival analysis is not based on the assumptions of wear, fatigue, or damage, as in traditional reliability theory.  This seems close to software reliability paradigm. The single biggest challenge in applying above discussed approaches to softwa re systems is the requirement for a new metric that is able to replace the survival time variable in survival analysis. This "time" counterpart needs to be capable of characterizing the "vulnerability" of software components or the system, or the distance to the next failure event. In other words, this software metric should represent the metric-to-event, similar to time-toevent random variable in survival analysis.  We suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(Li and Vitanyi 1997\n be a promising candidate. Once the metric-to-event issue is resolved, survival analysis, both univariate and multivariate survival analysis can be applied in a relative straightforward manner. We suggest that the shared frailty models are most promising because we believ e latent behavior can be captured with the shared fra ilty \(Ma and Krings 2008b  There have been a few applications of univariate survival analysis in software reliability modeling, including examples in Andersen et al.'s \(1995\ classical monograph However, our opinion is that without the fundamental shift from time-to-event to new metric-to-event, the success will be very limited. In software engineering, there is an exception to our claim, which is the field of software test modeling, where time variable may be directly used in survival analysis modeling  Modeling Survivability of Computer Networks As described in Subsection 2.3, random censoring may be used to model network survivability.  This modeling scheme is particularly suitable for wireless sensor network, because 1\ of the population nature of wireless nodes and \(2\ the limited lifetime of the wireless nodes.  Survival analysis has been advanced by the needs in biomedical and public health research where population is th e basic unit of observation As stated early, a sensor networ k is analogically similar to a biological population. Furthermore, both organisms and wireless nodes are of limited lifetimes. A very desirable advantage of survival analysis is that one can develop a unified mathematical model for both the reliability and survivability of a wireless sensor network \(Krings and Ma 2006  Prognostic and Health Management in Military Logistics PHM involves extensive modeling analysis related to reliability, life predictions, failure analysis, burnin elimination and testing, quality control modeling, etc Survival analysis may provide very promising new tools Survival analysis should be able to provide alternatives to the currently used mathematical tools such as ANN, genetic algorithms, and Fuzzy logic.  The advantage of survival analysis over the other alternatives lies in its unique capability to handle information censoring.  In PHM and other logistics management modeling, information censoring is a near universal phenomenon. Survival analysis should provide new insights and modeling solutions   5  R EFERENCES   Aalen, O. O. 1975. Statistical inference for a family of counting process. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Berkeley  Andersen, P. K., O. Borgan, R D. Gill, N. Keiding. 1993 Statistical Models based on Counting Process. Springer  Arsene, C. T. C., et al. 2006.  A Bayesian Neural Network for Competing Risks Models with Covariates. MEDSIP 2006. Proc. of IET 3rd International Conference On Advances in Medical, Signal and Info. 17-19 July 2006  Aven, T. and U. Jensen. 1999. Stochastic Models in Reliability. Springer, Berlin  Bazovsky, I. 1961. Reliability Theory and Practice Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey  Bakker, B. and T.  Heskes. 1999. A neural-Bayesian approach to survival analysis. IEE Artificial Neural Networks, Sept. 7-10, 1999. Conference Publication No 470. pp832-837  Berzuini, C.  and C. Larizza 1996. A unified approach for modeling longitudinal and failure time data, with application in medical mon itoring. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. Vol. 18\(2 123 


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


