html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 CLEAN Technique in Strip-Map SAR for High-Quality Imaging Hirad Ghaemi3, Michele Galletti2 , Thomas Boerner2 , Frank Gekat1,  Mats Viberg3 1SELEX Sistemi Integrati GmbH, Raiffeisenstrasse 10, D- 41470 Neuss, Germany 2DLR, German Aerospace Center, Muenchner Strasse 20, 82234 Wessling, Germany 3Chalmers University of Technology, Department of Signals and Systems, SE-41296, Gothenburg  Sweden Tel: +49-8153-28-2368 hirad@student.chalmers.se  Abstract  The maximum obtainable resolution of a stripmap synthetic aperture radar \(SAR by simply avoiding weighting, or tapering, data samples in the along-track compression process. However, this will lead to hazardous artifacts caused by strong sidelobes of the corresponding adjacent scatterers whose interference might severely weaken the desired targets or even introduce false targets. On the other hand, some residual artifacts, even after tapering process, may still deteriorate the quality contrast by applying the so-called CLEAN technique, which can mitigate these ill-effects in strip-map SAR imagery while maintaining the maximum resolution. This, indeed, is carried out as a post processing step, i.e., after the azimuth compression is accomplished, in the SAR system. The objective of this paper is to extend the CLEAN technique to strip-map SAR system to produce high-quality images with a very good along-track resolution. The algorithm is then applied to data from a ground-based circular SAR \(CSAR system to verify its implementation as well as this new application of the CLEAN technique. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 2. THE CLEAN ALGORITHM.................................................2 3. AN EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE.........................................4 4. CONCLUSIONS ..................................................................5 REFERENCES ........................................................................6 BIOGRAPHY ..........................................................................7 1. INTRODUCTION The long-aperture SAR systems capable of producing highresolution images, suffer from strong side lobe levels \(SLL introduced by the impulse response, or equivalently the corresponding processed pattern, of SAR as it occurs in long phased array imaging systems [1,5]. The interference of the strong sidelobe, associated with a group of adjacent scatterers, can result in destructive effects including breakup in the region of some strong scatterers and also creation of some new targets known as false targets with quite high amplitude levels [1]. Such unwanted effects, called artifacts degrade the quality, or contrast, of the image severely Tapering the samples within the synthetic aperture 1 1978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1053, Version 2, Updated December 20, 2008 performed by weighting function prior to along-track compression, is the simple and common solution to the current problem. However, there are a couple of drawbacks The most important one is the deterioration of resolution which might be intolerable if the super resolution is desired On the other hand, even though side-lobe levels \(in particular the first one artifacts can still have enough SNR, opposed to the weak scatterers, to affect the quality of the SAR image. Such circumstances mainly occur in long aperture, both synthetic and real ones The CLEAN technique, first introduced for non-coherent radiation fields in radio astronomy [6], has been extended to long phased array imaging systems, which use coherent radiation fields, to tackle artifacts without any loss in resolution [1].  This latter technique, proposed for non-SAR 


resolution [1].  This latter technique, proposed for non-SAR imaging systems, is based on the assumption that the target consists of a set of isolated and point-like scatterers Extended targets, i.e. contiguous ones such as dihedral scatterers, are not considered in the algorithm In this paper, we extend the coherent CLEAN to strip-map SAR imagery. The algorithm is developed in two dimensions and it covers largely distributed and contiguous scatterers in both range and along-track dimensions in addition to point-like scatterers. In other words, the CLEAN technique based on two-dimensional \(2-D extraction of distributed scatterers \(as opposed to point scatterers extended version of the two-dimensional CLEAN technique employed for feature extraction of point-like scatterers in inverse SAR \(ISAR  The mathematical procedures of non-linear least square NLS trihedral and dihedral reflectors, in one and two dimensions are found to be of great use in the signal modeling step of the proposed algorithm [2]. However, those excessive iterations, associated with the NLS algorithm, are avoided The details of the proposed technique are explained in the following section. In the third section, an experimental example is demonstrated to guarantee the performance of this algorithm in eliminating artifacts without degrading the resolution. Finally, a few concluding remarks are made in the fourth section 2 2. THE CLEAN ALGORITHM The block diagram of the CLEAN algorithm for strip-map SAR is depicted in Fig.1. The process begins with the focused image, i.e. after the compression is performed in azimuth. Since the ultimate along-track resolution is desired, the aperture samples are not tapered \(or weighted by window functions such as Hamming window prevalent in SAR processing The quality as well as dynamic range of the resultant image therefore deteriorates around target areas due to artifacts arisen from side lobes. Similar to the CLEAN process in 1], the 2-D features of the brightest spot \(or zone focused image, need to be extracted. This is accomplished by the modified and extended version of NLS algorithm [2 for solely one scatterer at a time on. Here, it is assumed that the brightest spot is a real target and not an artifact, otherwise the process will fail \(this indeed, is the basic assumption in the CLEAN algorithm 1 stored in a different variable. The impulse response \(the amplitude pattern geometry and two-way half-power beamwidth \(HPBW the antenna is to be determined to estimate the pattern of sidelobes imposed by the radar system as well as by the SAR processor. The 3-dB mainlobe can be considered to be of Gaussian form with a certain angular resolution dictated by the antenna  s parameters. In other words, the impulse response of the SAR system is an image produced by an ideal point source \(i.e. stationary, coherent, and strong point reflector with unit amplitude  pattern must be shifted to the correct along-track position already estimated by 2-D NLS and then multiplied by the complex samples of the strongest target expanded in range but regarded as a point-like scatterer in azimuth. In general the system impulse response must be convolved with the target reflectivity function, instead of performing shift and multiplication \(encircled by dashed lines in Fig.1 to obtain the final along-track pattern \(including both mainlobe and sidelobes image domain [3]. However, for the sake of simplicity, the target is treated as a coherent point-like scatterer in azimuth irrespective of its range extension, which implicitly means 


irrespective of its range extension, which implicitly means that the resolution as well as the overall impulse response is   Figure 1  The block diagram of the CLEAN algorithm for strip-map SAR imagery  3 manipulated and, therefore, determined by the SAR system Now, the 2-D complex samples of the estimated pattern associated with the brightest spot \(or small zone subtracted from the complex image. In contrast to [1 herein, the subtraction, or CLEANing, is performed in image domain rather than in the aperture domain \(or equivalently in the field domain image is devoid of the strongest scatterer and its sidelobes By following the previously stated steps, the next brightest point is similarly searched for and processed. The iterative CLEAN can continue down to the noise floor. However, it is highly likely that the CLEAN process fails to function properly, e.g. it might introduce false targets to the new image, due to low signal to noise ratio \(SNR sources whose respective impulse responses are affected severely by the available noise in the radar system. In this paper, the iterative process is simply terminated when the residual energy, i.e. the energy of the image left after several subtractions, violates a preset energy threshold \(a certain percentage of total energy in the primary image and/or the number of iterations fulfills a desired number of scatterers. Alternatively, one may set the thresholds, relative and absolute ones, developed in [1] based on both SNR and the variance of the phase error introduced by the imaging system, propagation anomalies, multipath, etc In addition to the SNR, the coherency of the target during the SAR illumination, or integration interval, can limit the performance of the CLEAN algorithm. It is also worth noting that the phase error in SAR must be estimated and properly included in determination of the impulse response of the whole system \(see [3 convolution and subtraction. Since the phase error multiplicative noise mainlobe and sidelobes \(their positions, their widths, and their relative amplitude levels  make the CLEAN technique appear totally ineffective unless it is either mitigated or estimated and involved in the CLEAN process. The corresponding step related to phase error, however, is not included in Fig.1, because it is assumed to be negligible In the following, 2-D NLS algorithm is formulated in general form, similar to [2]. However, this algorithm is intended to be used for feature extraction of a single scatterer at each iteration of CLEAN The measured samples nmy  in along-track and range dimension \(denoted by variables m and n , respectively can be expressed as 1,,1,0,1,,1,0       NnMm nmvnmsnmy 1 where nmv  are the 2-D complex samples of noise and  nms  are the model-based samples given as     1 nhmgnms k K k kk  2 


2 In the above equation, g and h for the kth scatterer are   2ln4 exp    2 2 kaka kak dmPRI mfPRIjmg    3   2ln4 exp    2 2 krkr krk dnRSI nfRSIjnh    4 PRI and RSI stand for the pulse repetition interval \(sampling interval in cross range respectively, and k is defined as the number of scatterers Moreover, k? , { }krka ff , , { }krka ?? , ,  and { }krka dd , are the complex amplitude, 2-D frequency center , 2-D spectrum width, and 2-D delay of the kth scatterer respectively. Subscripts  a  and  r  are representing azimuth and range, respectively We use bold letters y and kG  to represent M  N  matrices The Non-Linear Least-Squares \(NLLS target features are obtained by minimizing the following cost function  2 1 11   F K k kk K kkrkakrkakrkak  ddffC      Gy 5 in which  F  denotes Frobenius norm and T kkk hgG  6 Tkkkk Mggg   g         \(7 Tkkkk Nhhh   h          \(8 The cost function C1 is a non-linear function of all parameters except k? . Thus, rather than trying to solve for all parameters simultaneously, an iterative approach is used where the parameters of one scatterer are considered at a time. Assume the parameters of all scatterers but the kth are known \(or previously estimated 


known \(or previously estimated respect to k?  then yields its estimate k which is 4 22 kk kk H k k hg hyg  9 where    K kii iik 1 Gyy                       \(10  H  denotes the Hermitian matrix operation and the overbar represents complex conjugate. Besides    denotes Euclidean norm By inserting \(9 5 simplification, a new cost function C2 is to be maximized over the rest of unknown parameters of kth scatterer in order to realize the minimization of C1 over the same parameters, i.e 22 2 2  kk kk H k krkakrkakrka ddffC hg hyg 11 Since at each iteration of CLEAN process only one dominant scatterer is searched for, K is equal to one and yk is replaced by y. To maximize \(11 dimensional search over the parameter space is required. To accomplish this, we follow the alternating procedure [2] in which one parameter estimate is updated while the rest are considered fixed. Note that the 2-D frequency center ra ff , , can be readily estimated by finding the peak location of the 2-D fast Fourier transform \(FFT function P, when the other parameters remain constant   00 T M T N .. h[1] y[1]g ??=P             \(12 g0 and h0 are the vectors g and h calculated at center frequencies fa and fr set to zero, respectively. In \(12  L[1   is defined as a column-wise unit vector with length L and    denotes element-by-element matrix multiplication Here zero padding prior to the 2-D FFT is necessary for higher accuracy To accelerate the estimation process, which is quite tedious and time-consuming, the spectral widths { }ra ?? ,  are roughly determined via 3-dB bandwidth of the abovementioned function P over the 2-D frequency spectrum as it is done by the fast Fourier transform based \(FFTB algorithm outlined in [2]. Eventually, the delays da and dr are estimated by golden section search algorithm \(using the 


are estimated by golden section search algorithm \(using the corresponding MATLAB function domain search \(not interpolated, therefore its accuracy is limited by sampling interval Throughout the search process, a few iterations might turn out to be necessary to gain a better estimation of the parameters  Figure 2  The impulse response of the SAR system with and without tapering 3. AN EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLE The experimental data, exploited in this section, have been collected by SELEX-SI Gematronik Inc. using a groundbased rotating Doppler weather radar with a small antenna 8]. The corresponding antenna has a wide horizontal beamwidth and it has been installed on a fairly large platform and therefore, it has been capable of producing a quite long synthetic aperture with an integration time around 700 ms One of the objectives of this setup is to take advantage of the circular path of the sensor, which can be thought of as a strip-map CSAR, to produce high resolution and clear images of the far-distance ground clutter affecting desired targets3 As plotted in Fig.2, the azimuth impulse response of the CSAR system \(without applying any weighting function depicted by the dashed line they are suppressed by applying a Hamming window to the samples prior to coherent integration, the tapered impulse response \(plotted by the solid line in Fig.2 remaining side-lobes, not to mention the fact that the resolution has deteriorated Fig.3 \(a b clutter on the ground, obtained by using FFT and windowed FFT, respectively. It is easy to notice that the quality of the SAR image, even after windowing, is still poor due to strong artifacts 4 3 Based on a collaborative project between SELEX-SI and DLR 5  Figure 3  The SAR, windowed SAR, and CLEANed SAR images The improved images using the CLEAN technique outlined in Fig.1 with ?  \(a portion of the total signal energy available in the primary image shown in Fig.3 \(c d the contrast as well as dynamic range around the target areas is increased considerably. In other words, the several adjacent targets can now be better identified and distinguished from one another. In addition, the resolution remains intact, as anticipated. For clarification, a few alongtrack samples of both SAR and CLEANed SAR, at some specific range bins, are depicted in Fig.4. In one of the plots, the constructive interference of sidelobes associated with a couple of strong adjacent scatterers, has created false targets and also it has caused a break-up in one of the targets. These strong artifacts, as an example, are encircled with a dashed line in Fig.4 Since the current paper basically aims at the extension of the CLEAN algorithm and its new implementation, here also for the sake of simplicity, a constant threshold is defined based on the residual energy left out of the CLEAN process rather than moving-level thresholds investigated in 1]. Indeed, the deeper the CLEAN process proceeds, the more targets are detected with lower SNR and a higher probability of false target detection as well. In an attempt to find out the thresholds in [1], the dominant phase error will be the aperture-dependent phase error, the platform motion perturbation and the error introduced by propagation effects. The variance of this phase error and the SNR of the detected target affect the threshold level at each iteration of the CLEAN algorithm 


the CLEAN algorithm 4. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, the new and simple extension of the CLEAN technique to strip-map SAR has been studied. The algorithm has been proposed in two dimensions. A modified 2-D parameter estimation has been developed via NLS algorithm to determine the important parameters involved in the CLEAN process. The impulse response of the SAR system specifies the azimuth pattern consisting of main lobe and side lobes, as long as the SNR is high enough and the system is devoid of serious phase errors 6  Figure 4  Along-track samples of SAR and CLEANed SAR images at some certain range bins An experimental example has been demonstrated to verify that the image quality and dynamic range has been improved by this extended CLEAN algorithm, while the maximum resolution has been preserved. Besides, the new application to strip-map CSAR has been investigated REFERENCES 1] J. Tsao, and B. D. Steinberg  Reduction of sidelobe and speckle artifacts in microwave imaging: the CLEAN technique  IEEE Trans. Antennas Prop., vol.36 pp.543-556, April 1988 2] Z. S. Liu and J. Li  Feature extraction of SAR targets consisting of trihedral and dihedral corner reflectors   IEE Proc. Radar, Sonar Navig., vol. 145, pp. 161-172 June 1998 3] W. M. Brown  Synthetic aperture radar  IEEE Trans Aerosp. Electron. Sys., vol.3 ,pp. 217-229, March 1967 4] J. Li, R. Wu., and V. C. Chen  Robust autofocus algorithm for ISAR imaging of moving targets  IEEE Trans. Aerosp. Electron. Sys., vol. 37,pp. 1056-1068 July 2001 5] B. D. Steinberg, Microwave imaging with large antenna arrays. New York: Wiley,1983 6] J. A. H  gbom  Aperture synthesis with a non-regular distribution of interferometer baselines  Astron Astrophys Suppl.,vol.15, pp.417-426,.1974 7] C. A. Greene and R. T. Moller  The effect of normally distributed random phase errors on synthetic array gain patterns  IRE Trans. Military Electronics., pp. 130139, April 1962 8] H. Ghaemi, M. Galletti , T. Boerner, F. Gekat, and M Viberg  Synthetic aperture weather radar  M.Sc Thesis, DLR \(German Aerospace Center July 2008 7 BIOGRAPHY Hirad Ghaemi received the B.Sc and M.Sc. degree in electrical engineering from Iran University of Science and Technology in 2003 and 2005, respectively, and M.Sc in digital communication systems and technology from Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden in 2008. He gained some work experiences in active microwave circuit design, radar system engineering, microwave and antenna measurement and signal processing in SAR. His recent project carried out in DLR \(German Aerospace Center Doppler weather radars. His research interests include signal processing in SAR imagery, radar system design and simulation, and active microwave circuit/MMIC design Michele Galletti received the Laurea degree in physics \(110/110 e lode Studiorum Universit  di Bologna 


Bologna, Italy in 2003. In 2004 and 2005 he was a young scientist within the EU-funded project AMPER working on applications of radar polarimetry. Since 2006 he has been with the Microwaves and Radar Institute of the German Aerospace Center \(DLR-HR-RK His research interests are radar polarimetry and radar system design. He is currently enrolled in a Ph.D program in electrical engineering Thomas Boerner received the diploma degree in physics from the University of Munich, Germany in 1996, followed by a Ph.D. in Geography \(remote sensing 2000. Since 2005 he is the head of the propagation and scattering group at the Microwaves and Radar Institute of the German Aerospace Center \(DLR-HR-RK activities are the management and scientific supervision of quality assessment of SAR data, studies about atmospheric propagation effects in weather radar and SAR data, and investigations in new radar sensor concepts and designs Frank Gekat is Director of Development at Selex Sistemi Integrati, Neuss. He has directed the development of several meteorological radar systems including the METEOR 500/1500 and 600/1600 series. He previously served as Business Development Manager for Particle Accelerator Systems at Siemens AG, Germany and as Development Engineer at the Institute of Technical Physics of the DLR, Germany. He earned a Dipl.-Ing. and a Dr.-Ing. Degree from the Ruhr- Universit  t Bochum Germany Mats Viberg received the PhD degree in Automatic Control from Link  ping University, Sweden in 1989. During 1989-1992 he was an Assistant Professor in Link  ping University and 1992-1993 he held visiting Scholarships at the Information Systems Laboratory Stanford University, and the Department of ECE, Brigham Young University, USA. Since 1993, Dr. Viberg is a professor of Signal Processing at the Department of Signals and Systems \(formerly Applied Electronics During 1999-2004 he served as the Chair of the same department. Dr. Viberg's research interests are in Statistical Signal Processing and its various applications including Antenna Array Signal Processing, System Identification, Wireless Communications, Radar Systems and Automotive Signal Processing. Dr. Viberg was the Chair of the IEEE SP Society's Technical Committee on Signal Processing Theory and Methods 2001-2003. He served as an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 2004-2005, in the IEEE SP Awards board 2005-2007, and since 2006 in the IEEE SP Technical Committee on Sensor Array and Multichannel. He was the Technical Chair of the IEEE Workshop on Statistical Signal Processing \(SSP IEEE Workshop on Computational Advances in Multisensor Adaptive Processing \(CAMSAP received 2 Paper Awards from the IEEE Signal Processing Society \(1993 and 1999 respectively Research Award from the Swedish Research Council \(VR in 2002. Dr Viberg is a Fellow of the IEEE since 2003, and his research group received the 2007 EURASIP European 


his research group received the 2007 EURASIP European Group Technical Achievement Award. In 2008, Dr. Viberg was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences KVA      pre></body></html 


  10   R T C A  DO-282A, M i ni m u m Operat i onal Perform ance Standards for Universal Access Transceiver \(UAT Automatic Dependent Surveillance \226 Broadcast \(ADS-B Vol. 1, 2004  E Lester and J. Hansm a n, \223Benefits and incentives for ADS-B equipage in the nati onal airspace system,\224 MIT ICAT Report, ICAT-2007-2, 2007  W  Ochi eng, K. Sauer, D. W a l s h, G. B rodi n S Gri ffi n M. Denney, \223GPS integrity and potential impact on aviation safety,\224 The Journal of Navigation, 56, pp. 51-65 2003 17] M. Gariel, E. Feron 223Graceful Degradation of Air Traffic Operations: Airsp ace Sensitivity to Degraded Surveillance Systems,\224 Proceed ings of the IEEE, 96:12 pp. 2028-2039, Dec. 2008  K. Sam p i g et hay a R Poovendran, \223Pri vacy of ai r t r affi c management broadcasts,\224 I EEE Digital Avionics Systems Conference Proceedings, October 2009 19  C B Haley R. Lan e y, J. D. Mo ffett, B. Nu seib eh  223Security Requirements Engineering: A Framework for Representation and Analysis,\224 IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 34:1, pp.133-153, Jan.-Feb. 2008  Federal Avi a t i on Adm i ni st rat i on, 14 C F R Part 25 Special Conditions: Boeing model 787-8 airplane systems and data networks security protection of airplane systems and data networks from unauthorized external access, Federal Register, 72:72, 2007 http://edocket.access.gpo.gov/2007/pdf/07-1838.pdf 21] S. Capkun and J.-P. H ubaux, \223Securing position and distance verification in wireless networks,\224 Technical report EPFL/IC/200443, May 2004  K. Sam p i g et hay a M Li L. Huang, R  Poovendran 223AMOEBA: Robust Location Privacy Scheme for VANET,\224 IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 25:.8, pp.1569-1589, 2007   S Lo B Pet e rson, and P. Enge, \223Assessi ng t h e Securi t y  of a Navigation System: A Case Study using Enhanced Loran,\224 2009 European Navigation Conference GNSS Proceedings, May 2009  A Russell and D. Zuckerm a n, \223Perfect inform ation leader election in log* n + O\(1\h Annual Symposium on Foundations Of Computer Science FOCS\ber 1998  B IOGRAPHY   Krishna Sampigethaya is an advanced technologist at Boeing Research & Technology, Seattle working on cyber-physical systems assurance. He was a program committee member and co-lead of the Infotronics and Infotainment session at the 2008 National Workshop on High Confidence Transportation CPS, and co-chair of the 2009 Army Research Office CPS security workshop at University of Washington. He is serving as the technical chair for aviation cyber-physical security area at the 2009 SAE AeroTech Congress & Exhib ition and as a technical cochair for trustworthy aviation information systems area at the 2010 AIAA Infotech@Aerospace conference Radha Poovendran is an Associate Professor and founding director of the Network Security Lab \(NSL\ in the Electrical Engineering Department at the University of Washington. He has co-edited a book titled Secure Localization and Time Synchronization in Wireless Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks and has served as a co-guest editor for an IEEE JSAC special issue on wireless ad hoc networks security. He has received the NSA Rising Star Award and Faculty Early Career Awards including the National Scie nce Foundation CAREER award 2001\, ARO YIP \(2002\, ONR YIP \(2004\, and PECASE 2005\ for his research contri butions to multiuser security He has recently co-chaired the 2008 National Workshop on High Confidence Transportation cyber-physical systems CPS\ and chaired the 2009 ARO workshop on CPS security at University of Washington. He is also co-chairing the trustworthy aviation information systems technical area at the 2010 AIAA Infotech@Aerospace Linda Bushnell is a Research Assistant Professor and founding Director of the Networked Control Systems Lab, Electrical Engineering Department, University of Washington \(UW\, Seattle. Her research interests include networked control systems theory, embedded systems design, and robotics She has held positions with ARO and Duke University. Prof. Bushnell received the U.S government\222s Superior Civ ilian Service Award \(2000 National Science Foundation ADVANCE Fellowship 2002\, UW WiSE Graduate Student Mentor of the Year Award \(2002\, UW EE Chair\222s Award \(2003\, and IEEE Control Systems Society Recognition Award \(2008\. She has served as an Associate Editor for IEEE CONTROL SYSTEMS MAGAZINE  


  11  Figure 16 \226 The loss of spat ial resolution for errors in p    The spatial distribution of th e reconstructed images is illustrated in Figure 17 for p 0.5\260 and 400nm, 425nm and 450nm As expected, the larger dispersion at the shorter wavelengths will cause a larger shif t error.  In fact, as shown in Fig. 17 the error radius can become so large that we again see donuts as point response functions in the reconstruction Final Comments Specific systematic sources of error have been presented in this section independently Obviously it is a combination these errors that will propaga te through the transform to give the final result in terms of resolution and displacement in the reconstructed hyperspectral data set.  The contribution of each systematic error source in terms of the derived r   p  or  x\222 y\222 representation can be used to create an error kernel for each given in Equations 10 and 11 multiplied in series in Fourier space or convolved in series in the spatial domain to evaluate the cumulative effect  3  C OMPARISON TO M EASUREMENTS  The effect and sensitivity of th e selected systematic errors have been shown given the mathematical models for projection and reconstruction.  Data taken from the AFIT CTI instrument will be examined to determine how well the model is capturing the modeled impact of the systematic error with controlled in strumental inaccuracies Data Collection and Analysis An effective point source will be the target for the system and is represented by a 300 m pinhole at the object plane illuminated by a combination of an Hg pen lamp and red laser pointer.  This provid es 5 clear lines at 404.7nm 435.8nm, 546nm, 577.5nm, and 635nm 5 with the first four being from the pen lamp.   Care is taken here to not suggest that this is a true validation of the model, as it is impossible to completely isolate the effect of a single source of error Furthermore, the instrument was not designed with the exact measurement of quan tities such as detector tilt or prism alignment in mind, so these qu antities have to be measured indirectly. An attempt is made to make the particular error in question gross enough to be the overwhelming contributor and variation du e to possible inaccuracy in measurement is included in the model For each instance of induced systematic error in the instrument, projections will be taken at p 0\260-345 1 5 260 increments to provide a total of 23 projections.  This data will not be reconstructed usin g the SAA algorithm as that will serve to compound the contribution of unaccounted error.  Instead, a direct comparison to the derived r   p  will be made in each case.  In assessing the model vs performance, trends in this da ta will be consid ered in favor of absolute difference.  The measurements made address effect of detector tilt and di stance error, accuracy of the dependence of p   on I and error from prism misalignment.  For the this co llected data, a correction will be made to better calibrate the system to the actual p   to avoid the spectral shift in the data Variation in Detector Array Tilt and Distance To measure the affect that til t has on the collected data, the PIMAX camera was slightly ro tated from its position to create an angle between the detector array and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Figure 6.  Because the camera was rotated about its mount point, which is displaced from detector by 70 mm, the rotation angle also  5 The 577.5 line is the average of the Hg doublet that appears here and not clearly resolved by the instrument nm Spatial Res. \(pixels 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 p = 0.10\260 p = 0.25\260 p = 0.50\260  Figure 17 \226 The 400 nm, 425 nm, and 450 nm spatial functions for p 0.5\260.  With greater dispersion, the error most affects the shorter waveleng ths as indicated in Figure 16  


  12 moves the array toward L3 providing some amount of variable d across the array.  Swiveling the camera also rotates the array away from th e image plane, so there is a hard limit on the  that can be imparted before the spectrum is off of the array  The camera is turned 4\260 in the +x-direction x 4\260\nd tilted upward y 2\260\.  The camera was moved toward L 3  by 2mm d 2mm corporating the variable distance imparted by the camera sw ivel.  It is estimated that the tilt angle of the camera can be measured to +/- 0.25\260 and that the error in from both components\within 0.5mm.  These measurement er ror estimations will be used in the model to determine a maximum and minimum range of model results.  Equation 13 will be used to calculate r   p  the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle.  For the 404.7nm source, the image was projected off of the array at p 140\260 - 200\260 thus the gap in data.  The results are shown in Figs. 18-22   Figure 18 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 19\226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 20 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 21 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 22 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 635nm spectral line   The data imply that the overall mean value of r   p  is being captured which represents the contribution of The shapes of the curves appear to match somewhat for the 404nm and 435nm cases, but the correlation for the other three wavelengths is not as cl ose.  For these wavelengths the variation in r   p  as a function of p is very small possibly due to other uncontrolled error.  Also, for these and all spatial location measurements, there is inherent quantization error in determinin g the center of the Gaussian fit function due to the phasing of the samples on the array 6  Change in p  as a Function of I  A major impact on the reconstr uction algorithm is the error in estimation of the prism dispersion angle p   due to the difference in assumed and true values of the incident angle to the prism I This drives the observed error as a result of prism misalignment, as well as the correction needed in the reconstruction to account for fiel d angle.  Here, the explicit dependence of r  on I will first be examined, then the effect of prism misalignment on I   A sample of the spectrum with the object on th e optical axis  I 0\260\n to provide a baseline displacement r for each of the 5 wavelengths in the object.  The prism mount is then successively tilted to vary I   At each step, the magnitude of I  is found by pointing a laser along the optic axis through a small aperture also centered on the optic axis The I 0\260 position is identified wh en the reflection of the laser is exactly back th rough the aperture.  At I 0\260, the laser will be reflected at an angle equal to I and will hit the  6 The system is undersampled, so that changes of less than \275  pixel in location are not reliably measured 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





