html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Why Mobile  Payments Fail? Towards a Dynamic and Multi-perspective Explanation   Jan Ondrus ESSEC Business School ondrus@essec.fr Kalle Lyytinen Case Western Reserve University kalle.lyytinen@case.edu Yves Pigneur University of Lausanne yves.pigneur@unil.ch   Abstract Despite optimistic expectations fast diffusion of mobile payments has not taken place after a decade of trials. Several explanations to this situation have been put forward using several theories and levels of analysis. Due to the complexity and dynamism of the diffusion we need multiple perspectives to account for diffusion challenge. We juxtapose three frameworks into a dynamic analysis framework. We apply the proposed framework to explain three failed introductions of mobile payments in the Swiss market In particular, a recent ambitious trial is confronted with the proposed framework to detect roots of its failure. Our analysis suggests that market-level and behavioral facets need more attention in future in explaining mobile payment diffusion. To guide future efforts we propose several avenues for further research   1. Introduction  With the widespread adoption of mobile phones for voice and text messaging, a recurrent question raised is: what will be the next killer application? Many analysts, consultants, and researchers have focused on this question, and, not surprisingly, mobile payments have often been identified as a good candidate. Being able to pay with a mobile phone that you carry with you anyway looks an obvious alternative given the fact that now over 80% of Western people carry a mobile phone, and the fast developments in e-/m-commerce and electronic payment technologies. Furthermore mobile payments are necessary to carry out transactions that involve digital content \(e.g ringtones, news, music also new payment schemes and services for widely used debit and credit cards Despite this promise up to this point only few cases of limited success can be identified in mobile payments. Japan, South Korea, Singapore lead the pack 19] as these countries offer now mobile payment services that can be used in several purchase scenarios such as manned and unmanned, remote and proximity payments for physical and digital goods. Even though their deployed technologies and services are more varied and advanced, the usage rates are still low and now wide spread diffusion has taken place [2]. One fundamental reason is that mobile payments require customers to change their behaviors towards tightly ingrained payment habits. Learning from the history of credit card adoption [6] it will take time before the mass-adoption of payment systems is reached. In Europe and the U.S., most solutions have been launched for specific purposes \(e.g. digital content 


launched for specific purposes \(e.g. digital content parking, vending machines ensure a relatively secure business case, but the growth potential of these mobile payments remains highly limited The reason why most Western countries have not been able to deploy mobile payments in a massive scale has not been scrutinized carefully. It appears that the success of mobile payments depends greatly on the effective alignment between a business model and physical environment in which it will be launched. Our objective in this paper is to examine factors that influence the success of the proposed mobile payment scheme. In particular, we will examine impending factors that lead either to the failure of developing a robust business model, or to the low uptake of the proposed solutions. In previous research [13], we applied multi-criteria decision-making methods MCDM decision making in mobile payment markets. In this study we expand this line of research with an inquiry into institutional, economic and behavioral factors that shape mobile payment provisioning and adoption. To this end we juxtapose three frameworks to analyze mobile payment diffusion. The first framework leans on the economic analysis of the mobile payment markets [1]. The second one looks at strategic and environmental drivers [5]. Finally, the third one focuses on resources and business drivers that shape mobile payment provisioning [3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE We apply the frameworks to explore the failure of three Swiss mobile payment cases, which we have been following for about 5 years. Based on our longitudinal research [13], we confront the frameworks with the process and use data derived from the cases We select one of these cases involving most extensive mobile payment trial data for detailed scrutiny to illustrate why it failed and how it misaligned with a number of critical factors We bring our contribution in two fronts. First, by juxtaposing and integrating the frameworks we offer a more encompassing framework for the analysis of the failed using the three frameworks together we reveal their weaknesses and strengths and thus help formulating more encompassing frameworks that could be applied to deliver complex mobile payment infrastructures In the next section, we briefly summarize previous research into mobile payments, introduce the frameworks, and identify aspects that have not been covered well in the extant research. Then, we describe three Swiss mobile payment cases that are used in the subsequent analysis. Next, we use three frameworks to analyze the cases and, in particular, to describe in detail the failure of one of the cases - the PostFinance payment system. We conclude by outlining three lines for future research. First, we evaluate the benefit of using the three frameworks and reflect on their merits Second, we look at the Swiss case findings and delineate factors that are likely to influence the failure of similar future systems. Third, we propose lines of future research to understand mobile payment infrastructure evolution based on a multi-perspective analysis  2. Related work  According to Dahlberg et al. [5], most papers published around mobile payments cover technical 


published around mobile payments cover technical issues \(e.g., security, protocols, systems architectures or consumer-centric studies \(e.g., adoption rather limited and fragmented scope could be partly explained by the recent emergence of mobile payment research. Due to the increased interest we can expect more diversity in the next years while research in this domain matures Based on [5] we posit that there is a lack of multiperspective research that is needed to obtain a holistic view of payment system adoption and evolution. In addition, we need to conduct research that follows more than just one perspective at a time. Few studies in fact, have looked at mobile payment diffusion in a systemic manner. Most investigations covering the topic have been carried out by consulting or industrial organizations \(see e.g., [19 engage in rigorous, theory based and multi-perspective explanations of the diffusion of mobile payments As mentioned above, the consumer behaviors \(i.e the demand side of the market investigated. However, the other side of the markets i.e., providers and merchants Analyzing the dynamics of two-sided markets [17 such as electronic payment systems [6], from a multiple stakeholder perspective is required to better comprehend the diffusion process [12 In addition, mobile payments are subject to network externalities [18]. In order to measure the value of the network, it is important to understand the dynamics of additional benefits brought by new users of the payment system. Both of the sides of the market including consumers, merchants and providers be analyzed using network externalities The evolution of the industry structure [11] is also essential to better comprehend the environment in which mobile payment solutions need to be embedded A careful analysis of the context is required as factors of success or failure are strongly related to the industrial environment Another important aspect is the internal organization and business logic of the mobile payment solution. One way to analyze this dimension is to look at the business model. Since business models of mobile payment solutions are heterogeneous, we need to analyze them along multiple dimensions to verify their alignment with the environment. Osterwalder and Pigneur have proposed an framework to describe and analyze business models [14] involving four elements First, the Market focuses on the target customers and the channels to reach them. Second, we need to look at the Value Proposition, which comprises the service and the value perceived by the target customers. Third to describe the technical issues, we use an Infrastructure perspective, and, finally, fourth, we discuss the Financial aspects \(i.e., costs and revenues After identifying all these perspectives we selected a number of frameworks from the mobile payment literature that cater for these dimensions. To take into account the economics of mobile payments, Au and Kauffman [1] have proposed a framework using economic theories such as network externalities consumer choice and demand, switching costs complementary goods, IT value, and economics of technology adoption and diffusion \(see Figure 1 Then, in terms of industry structure and strategy we found a framework by Dahlberg et al. [5] \(adapted from [8, 4, 7 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2  Figure 1. Framework proposed by Au and Kauffman [1 


Figure 1. Framework proposed by Au and Kauffman [1  This framework combines the five forces model [16 and the generic contingency theory [9, 15, 20] \(see Figure 2 competitive dynamics of the industry. The contingency factors relate to environmental issues that are out of the direct control for adopters. All these factors are supposed to have a major impact on the mobile payment adoption   Figure 2. Framework proposed by Dahlberg et al. [5 Another framework by Dahlberg et al. [3] deals with how to analyze mobile payment solutions \(Figure 3 perspectives to the ones already presented. A special focus here is given to resource based and resource dependent analysis affecting adopter behaviors Furthermore, the framework includes issues related to business/economic and institutional factors  3. Mobile Payment cases in Switzerland  3.1. Data collection and analysis We selected three visible and relevant mobile payment initiatives in the Swiss market. These cases illustrate well the efforts that have been carried in the past years in Switzerland. We analyzed the cases using materials collected during our previous research [13 and by obtaining new secondary sources \(i.e., news articles experts, who had been involved in the design and implementation of mobile payments in these cases. We analyzed the case data using the three frameworks to code the data. Furthermore, we described the business models underlying the cases using the four perspectives of the Business Model Ontology by Osterwalder and Pigneur [14 The first case is the m-Maestro project, which was a common effort between the major Swiss companies to enable the Maestro card for m-commerce purchases and the top up of mobile phone prepaid accounts. The second case is the first European initiative to offer an m-commerce platform compliant with the ?Verified by Visa? security standard. Finally, the last case is a mobile payment solution initiated by a major financial institution called PostFinance Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3  Figure 3. Framework proposed by Dahlberg et al. [3  None of these solutions have been successful so far The m-Maestro project was never launched. It failed at the stage of design \(which was mostly on paper Verified by Visa? platform has not seen new developments since the announcement of its implementation \(failed after implementation PostFinance abandoned the solutions after the first trial failure after a real world test here PostFinance has launched a new scheme. This is more focused and less ambitious and gives up the goal of developing an extensive payment infrastructure as it mostly support remote purchases of digital goods \(e.g news, ticketing We performed the same analysis on each of the three cases, but due to space limitation, we describe only one of the cases in detail \(i.e., PostFinance completeness, we provide a brief explanation of the reasons why the two other schemes failed at different 


reasons why the two other schemes failed at different stages to highlight our dynamic approach 3.2. Description of the first two cases 3.2.1. The m-Maestro project. The m-Maestro project was launched in the early 2000s. The objective was to enable the Maestro card \(i.e., debit card for m-commerce transactions. The motivation was driven by the national mobile network operators MNO means to top up their prepaid accounts. Back then prepaid accounts were usually charged using scratch cards. These cards were mostly sold in kiosks Unfortunately, these kiosks took a 10% commission for each scratch card sold. Compared to the fees of traditional payment means such as debit and credit cards, these scratch cards were quite inefficient and not profitable for the MNOs. Since the Maestro card was getting more popular, MNOs were thinking about a solution based on this debit card. Moreover, by extension, this card could be used to buy digital or Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 physical goods without charging the monthly MNO bill. The expected benefit was that the monthly bill which contained voice and data consumption information, would not be ?polluted? with extra information about third-party financial transactions Furthermore, the MNOs wanted to benefit from the risk management provided by the banks. On the side of the financial institutions, this project mainly aimed at creating a new channel for the Maestro card As the project faced several technical challenges and priorities changed the trial was never launched despite the MNOs? initial enthusiasm. Part of the failure could also be explained by the fact that the project took place too early. Looking back, the market was likely to be unprepared for such an initiative. The volume of transaction was too low, which made the cost of the design, implementation, and operation hard to justify. As a result, without the support of the whole industry, the m-Maestro project was abandoned Nothing happened after the first round of nonfulfillment. Despite the failure, the project was an excellent source of learning for the Swiss banking and mobile industries. Most of the experts involved during the trial are still active in the mobile payment area 3.2.2. Secure Mobile Commerce - Visa. In Summer 2006, Corner Bank and its partners announced the first European mobile commerce solution using the secure standard ?Verified by Visa?. The solution has been named Secure Mobile Commerce. The basic idea was that the Visa card could be used securely for mcommerce transactions Corner Bank, one of the major Swiss credit card issuers, offered to their cardholders the possibility to use their Visa cards to make secure payments in mobile shops. Thanks to the partnership with Sunrise \(a Swiss MNO to pay in a mobile music store \(musicfinder The deployment of the solution required the participation of companies with diverse knowhow Telekurs Multipay was in charge of the acquisitions and the linkages of mobile shops to Visa payment system. Datatrans developed the interface between the mobile shop checkout page, and Telekurs created the payment system.  Arcot, a payment security specialist provides the authentication mechanisms for a secure Verified by Visa? transaction with the mobile phone Finally Crealogix was responsible for the development of the mobile shop with the extension of the musicfinder. The service was never adopted widely due to its limited focus and benefits 


 3.2. Mobile Payments by PostFinance The most widely known mobile payment scheme in Switzerland comes from PostFinance. PostFinance tends to be generally a first mover in many fields related to retail banking. Furthermore, it dominates the payment traffic in Switzerland with more than 3.3 million accounts1 \(in a country of about 7.5 million habitants the mobile payment arena. It has large customer and merchant base for daily payments \(about 60% of the market share PostFinance has launched two distinct mobile payment initiatives. The first one consisted of a trial for proximity payments, and the second one a remote mobile payment solution to pay for online purchases For the purpose of this research, we primarily focus on the first trial launched in 2005 in the city of Bern. We selected this trial, because it is the major attempt to propose proximity payments using a mobile phone Furthermore, in case of the success of the trial, the tried out scheme was supposed to be launched nationally To characterize the internal organization of the trial, we use a simplified version of the Business Model Ontology [14]. The instantiation of the framework enabled us to better understand the business logic underlying the PostFinance's solution. This step was essential in order to evaluate the alignment of the business model with the environment. This evaluation would then help us unveil a number of internal factors that can lead to success or failure The market PostFinance was targeting were holders of post accounts, and user of mobile phones. The objective was to link accounts to mobile phone numbers. Their target customer segment was fairly large. For the trial, they tested the scheme only with employees of the involved companies \(about a thousand participants The value proposition was about offering a convenient and secure way to pay for physical goods using a mobile phone. PostFinance customers would have more flexibility by having an extra means of payment. On their side, the merchants saw opportunities to improve their payment process by enhancing their customer relationship management by having the possibility to offer new types of personalized coupons In terms of infrastructure, PostFinance collaborated with Unisys and Gavitec to design the payment solution. Due to the proposed solution, PostFinance could bypass the MNOs by using them only as carriers PostFinance also managed to involve various partners in the retail industry. During the trial, merchants accepted the payment instrument at twelve locations in Bern. The list of participants comprised of two largest Swiss retailers \(Migros, Coop  1 Key figures 2007 from PostFinance website Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 electronic retailers \(Interdiscount, Mobilezone Postshops, and the Swiss national railways \(SBB additional payment terminal was added at the point of sale of each participant?s shops in Bern. The terminal enabled the merchant to read a special bar code \(Data Matrix phone. The payment process could be described as follows: The payment process is initiated at the point of sale \(POS i barcode stuck on the back of the mobile phone and \(ii 


barcode stuck on the back of the mobile phone and \(ii typing a PIN code on a terminal. Then, \(iii merchant enters the amount of the purchase on the same terminal using a small externally attached keyboard. From there, \(iv transmitted to the PostFinance m-payment platform. A few seconds later, if all checks are cleared, \(v consumer gets an SMS with a barcode and some information concerning the purchase \(name of the merchant, the amount of the purchase, and the date the consumer agrees, \(vi to be scanned by the terminal to conclude the transaction. Finally, \(vii purchase and the consumer gets a receipt of the purchase. The payment amount is debited in real time from the customer?s PostFinance account As the trial was an extension of the Postcard, the major impacts on the financial aspects remained in the cost of the infrastructure deployed, the extra cost of issuing additional payment means, and advertising to increase the general awareness of mobile payments Expected revenues come from transaction fees paid by the merchants, a licensing fee that other financial institutions would pay to join and use the scheme, and finally potential fees from mobile coupons. Moreover the positive impacts on the purchase experience could motivate customers to spend more  4. Analysis of the three Swiss cases As noted, several researchers have identified the need of a multi-perspective analysis and to this end have proposed frameworks that need to be taken into account when analyzing mobile payment diffusion. In this section, we use these frameworks as alternative filters to unveil potential factors of failure  4.1. Short analysis of the first two cases Due to space limitations we can only provide a short description of what were the factors which made m-Maestro and ?Secure Mobile Commerce? fail. For m-Maestro, the lack of a strong actor who could push the solution forward by forcing/motivating the other parties to collaborate was a killing factor. Under these conditions any mobile payment solution would have difficulties to be launched Despite a relatively good technology and business case, the actors failed to find a solution which would match their individual utilities \(i.e., Pareto equilibrium the solution did not succeed and was abandoned. As we could observe, m-Maestro mostly failed because of the lack of support from different stakeholders On the contrary, the ?Secure Mobile Commerce? of Corner Bank was able to gather and motivate all the actors necessary to provide the solution. However, it failed to involve both consumers and merchants. In this case, we had some powerful actors willing to launch a solution. Unfortunately, they did not solve the issue of two-sided markets, which is to involve both the demand and supply side of the market to get the wagon rolling.  They failed to generate network externalities though appropriate actor incentives either for the customers or the merchants to join  4.2. PostFinance analysis 4.2.1 Economic analysis of PostFinance solution To conduct an economic analysis of PostFinance solution, we use the first framework proposed by Au and Kauffman [1]. This framework looks at the mobile payment market using an economic perspective \(Figure 1 the market. The technology producers are the firms or 


the market. The technology producers are the firms or organizations providing the mobile payment product or service. They symbolize the supply-side of the market In our case, PostFinance, Gavitech, and Unisys are the technology producers. There are also the users consumers, and buyers. On the other side there are the merchants that participate in the mobile payment scheme. In addition, we have the government and regulators which control and regulate the market In their framework, Au and Kauffman also include different levels of impact on the stakeholders. The most direct impacts are related to network externalities In fact, in order for PostFinance's scheme to be successful, a large number of customers and merchants need to adopt the payment scheme. By involving the major retailers \(Migros and Coop PostFinance sought to create a fairly large network of points-of-sale \(POS payments and consumers would have many places where to pay with their mobile phone. The "chickenand-egg" problem would be partly solved by having a large merchant base before offering the solution to the consumers. With more consumers and merchants on board, PostFinance would increase the value of the payment solution Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 Based on their preferences for payments in specific contexts, the consumers would have an additional possible payment instrument. The choice will mostly depend on which payment solution maximizes the utility of the consumers. The consumers will seek the best option in the range of the options available. In other words, the consumers will have to decide which payment instrument is the most suitable and brings the best value to the transaction. The value perceived could be financial \(e.g., discount, loyalty scheme with rewards e.g., speed, convenience psychological \(e.g., trust, fashionable PostFinance scheme it is not clear what would have been its value for the consumers. To change customer behavior towards payments, a clear added-value should have been perceived when using the new scheme. This rule applies also for the merchants as they expect benefits or incentives when adopting a new payment scheme. In the PostFinance case the value perceived for mobile payments was probably not great, because the technology deployed was not more efficient \(faster than the traditional payment with cards. However, the merchants saw an opportunity to offer a personalized loyalty scheme to their customers. The scheme would allow merchants to send coupons directly to the mobile phone of their customers. This additional service bundled with the payment solution appeared promising in order to increase the value for the merchants and the consumers By providing a new electronic payment solution PostFinance would reduce the number of cash-based transactions. As these transactions are quite expensive there might be some cost reduction related to the adoption of mobile payments. This is the case only, if the transaction fees are not too high. Since PostFinance is offering mobile payments based on their direct debit scheme, the transaction fees would not differ from the use of the PostCard Other secondary impacts comprise issues such as switching costs, quality of service and accessibility Once the solution has created network externalities then, the providers hope that customers will join in mass. Switching costs could be seen as a barrier for adoption. However, the solution designed should limit the financial \(e.g., cost of the solution 


the financial \(e.g., cost of the solution and practical hurdles for PostFinance customers. In order to fully satisfy the consumers, PostFinance had to provide a secure and reliable payment solution. Later impacts \(third-level policies that have to be put in place in order to control the monetary and fiscal issues. PostFinance did not have problems since their mobile payment solution was just an additional channel to access their existing payment system. They were compliant with all the regulation in place 4.2.2 PostFinance: a strategic analysis. For the strategic and environment analysis, we use the framework proposed by Dahlberg et al. [5]. Porter's competitive factors help us to analyze the competitiveness of the industry surrounding PostFinance. The contingency factors relate to environmental issues that are beyond the direct control of PostFinance We start the analysis by looking at the contingency factors that have great influence on the Swiss mobile payment market. In terms of social and cultural environment, the Swiss market is quite traditional and sometimes considered conservative. In terms of payments, Swiss consumers and merchants use the same payment instruments as in other Western countries. PostFinance tried to take advantage of the widespread use of mobile phones and its widely adopted PostCard \(i.e., debit card both technologies seemed promising. However, Swiss consumers might not be ready for such an important evolution of their current payment instruments Switzerland, as well as other Western countries, has been exposed to changes in the commercial environment with the emergence of e-commerce and other advances in mobile telecommunication. In the convergence of the banking and telecommunication industry we have witnessed the development of mobile banking platforms. Moreover, mobile network operators have been pushing new mobile services and content through their mobile portals. All of these evolutions made mobile payments look like a valuable addition to the existing portfolio of services. This opens new opportunities for PostFinance to innovate in the payments In terms of technology, Switzerland has good telecommunication, banking, and payment infrastructures. On the industry side, most of the technology building blocks are available to launch a mobile payment scheme. However, the consumer mobile phones capabilities are still limited in offering proximity mobile payments. Therefore, PostFinance had to find the best available technologies compatible with the current set of consumer?s mobile phones They decided to use SMS for the payment scheme, as it was a standard implemented in all mobile phones on the market. Near field communication \(NFC technology similar to RFiD standards, would have been clearly a much better choice for the type of payment scheme they launched. Unfortunately, it was not available in the market and is still awaited today Regulation in Switzerland has not been a real issue Besides banking license regulation and electronic money directives, PostFinance did not have to worry with its mobile payment scheme, as they are already compliant with all regulations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Standardization in mobile payments is clearly a critical issue. In Switzerland, the market is too small to offer different standards to consumers. This is the reason why PostFinance wanted to establish its 


reason why PostFinance wanted to establish its solution as a ?de-facto? open standard. The objective was that other financial institutions could be able to join this interoperable scheme Consumers have the power to adopt a new payment scheme. They can also express needs and therefore frame the requirements for payment solutions that would suit their behaviors. For PostFinance, it was important that consumers were willing to accept the use of mobile payments. However, past experiences in payments showed that consumers did not have a great influence on the design of solutions. Most of the payment instruments were imposed from the providers without a clearly defined demand from the consumers In order to facilitate a wide adoption and generate network externalities, merchants need to be involved in the deployment of mobile payments. Without the support of merchants, the solution would have more difficulties to become accepted in the market PostFinance understood this issue well as they involved the most influent and important retailers in Switzerland. Merchants have some bargaining power as the additional payment instrument is not indispensable. Since they have to make substantial investments in order to upgrade their current point of sales systems they can negotiate lower transaction fees Traditional payments such as cash, debit and credit cards represent competing solutions that mobile payments need to displace in the proximity payment area. PostFinance had to find a way to provide more value than existing payment solutions. By offering more capabilities such as mobile couponing, merchants and consumers could be interested to adopt PostFinance's scheme. This would add value that could make a difference when compared to traditional payments. Unfortunately, PostFinance failed to provide better value New electronic payment services such as Paypal could have an impact on the adoption. However, the position of the proximity payment solution of PostFinance was not likely to be threatened by remote payment solutions. However, depending on how the market evolves, these online payment methods could reach the mobile phone. In fact, Mobile Paypal was launched few months after PostFinance solution Moreover, with the emergence of mobile phone, such as the iPhone, the mobile Internet is becoming a new channel that could be exploited Looking at the competition in the Swiss mobile payment market, PostFinance had an ideal position to impose their solution. The other major financial institutions in Switzerland do not consider mobile payments as a profitable business. Since PostFinance is the largest payment service provider in Switzerland mobile payments could become an additional competitive weapon for them. Mobile network operators are also interested in this market. However the tendency has been towards collaboration between the telecom and the financial industries. PostFinance mobile proximity payments did not have any competing alternative. Therefore, PostFinance could gain a first mover advantage [10] by imposing their solution as a standard 4.2.3 Analysis of PostFinance: a resource perspective. The third framework [3] focuses on resource based and resource dependent perspectives One of the aspects therein is to analyze the actors their linkages, and their power already covered with the previous framework. However, it is interesting to examine the institutional support that PostFinance needed in order to succeed. Despite its partnership with other organizations \(e.g., Swisscom 


difficulty in convincing other actors to join the mobile payment scheme. Most of the other players adopted a wait-and-see position. PostFinance had to take all the risks in the hope of eventually getting a competitive and first mover advantage. Since PostFinance operates its own payment network, the most important resources were already available. Crucial elements for the deployment of the infrastructure were the payment terminals. Retailers had to add another terminal to their existing point of sale infrastructure. Without the support of the merchants, PostFinance would have had a significant problem to solve PostFinance integrated its mobile payment scheme into the existing infrastructure. The objective was to launch the scheme with a minimal infrastructure change. On the side of the consumers, the mobile payment scheme was designed to be compatible with most existing mobile phones. Instead of introducing new technology, PostFinance used current technologies to propose a new system The Swiss market is not large enough to support several payment schemes. PostFinance hoped that by proposing the first system others would have no other choice but join. Indeed, PostFinance was trying to enable a new channel for its own payment system. In the mobile payment proximity area, there were no direct competitors. PostFinance had a good position to impose itself as the leader. To validate findings we also interviewed the mobile payment project manager of PostFinance. He confirmed that our findings were relevant and explained well the outcome of the failed trial. PostFinance?s trial was discontinued, as several key factors were not satisfying \(Table 1  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 5. Conclusion and discussion The juxtaposition of the three frameworks helped us to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the failure of mobile payment diffusion in Switzerland using multiple perspectives: economic, strategy, resource based, and behavioral. The applied frameworks were complementary with some redundancy In general, the account of the diffusion process and factors that influence it is rich and relatively complete To wit, we were able unveil most factors that led the implementations and designs to fail in the early stages The analysis shows, however, that each framework misses some critical factors. First, the high level of abstraction of these frameworks makes them difficult to apply in concrete situations ex ante. Second, none of the frameworks encompasses the dynamics of the diffusion and only provides a static view of mobile payment diffusion trajectory. Even though, they can be instantiated several times during the study period and comprise of several dynamic factors, they are not inherently dynamic: they do not propose a sequence of stages where the analysis needs to be performed differently. At each stage, however, we detected different factors that impede the progress. Therefore the frameworks need to be augmented with a dynamic model of the diffusion stages as shown in Table 1 Third, the frameworks did not observe behavioral and coordination challenges associated with embedding the mobile payments in local contexts and the need for scaling the service for growth. Though PostFinance met most positive conditions for introducing a viable service based on its dominant position and active involvement of major retailers, it failed to provide additional value for consumers and local merchants. In contrast, PostFinance faced significant difficulties in finding a feasible trade-off between interoperability 


finding a feasible trade-off between interoperability and the ease of use for consumers. It had to sacrifice the ease of use for interoperability and scale, which resulted in a clumsy solution, which did not fit with the physical environment and the behaviors associated with payments in local stores. Consumers have deeply ingrained habits to pay in certain ways with associated physical behaviors. Many criticized the chosen solution as the payment  terminals  were  too  cumbersome  and  Table 1.  Dynamic model of the diffusion stages of a mobile payment solution Phases Main evidence from the cases Au and Kauffman [1] Dahlberg et al. [5] Dahlberg et al. [3 1. Build an alliance between MNO and Financial institutions m-Maestro: they did not reach a consensus. It failed to convince every actor PostFinance: they were able to bypass the MNOs by using them as simple carrier. They did not need other financial institutions as they already operate their own payment network Stakeholder identification   Competition between the providers New and competing e-payment and traditional systems gt; PostFinance: they have a great position to compete and lead the market Interested Organizations / Key Market Actors PostFinance Difficulties to involve and get the support of the other service providers 2. Involve the sellers and business intermediaries side \(i.e., merchants the development and deployment of the service Build a sufficient supply in two-sided markets Secure Mobile Commerce?: they did not involve enough actors merchants effects PostFinance: they involved the major merchants of Switzerland which created an important network Network externalities Cost reduction -&gt PostFinance merchants could decrease the number of cash-based transactions Merchant power -&gt PostFinance Merchants could bargain to reduce the transaction fees 


transaction fees Economic/Business Factors Interested Organizations / Key Market Actors 3. Provide an adequate value for the consumers to join the service. Generate incentives to create demand in two-sided markets Secure Mobile Commerce?: the low number of point of acceptance did not create value for consumers PostFinance: they failed to create a real value for consumers \(compared to existing systems Consumer choice Switching cost -&gt PostFinance: existing customer would not have to pay extra Quality of service Accessibility Customer power Changes in Social/Cultural Environment -&gt Swiss consumers are relatively conservative  Economic/Business Factors 4. Involve the manufacturers to scale the system and offer interoperability and ease of use. Build up interoperable standards for connectivity and transactions PostFinance: they involved different technology providers and integrators. However, the mobile phone manufacturers did not participate. They ended up with a non-standard solution. A Swiss interoperable standard is key in order to succeed Technology value Accessibility Changes in Technological Environment -&gt Emergence of e-/mcommerce brings a new opportunities for mobile payments Technology factors gt; PostFinance they ignore relevant technology factors due to infrastructural constraints 1-4. Deal with regulatory issues \(restrictions incentives, obligations PostFinance: they were already compliant with all the current regulations Monetary and fiscal 


Monetary and fiscal policies Changes in Legal regulatory, and standardization environment Institutional factors Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 bulky, and the sticker in the back of the mobile phone looked just too cheap. Likewise, the payment process was not simpler and faster than the use of the traditional PostCard. The solution therefore met with resistance both at the consumer and local merchant side. Partially this was due to the lack of adequate standardization for introducing technical solutions that would allow for simple local behaviors. The original design choices were made in order to enable the largest number of customers to participate in the payment scheme. Yet, if standardized and cheaper NFC technologies had been made available, the proposed solution would have probably worked better As discussed above, the use of frameworks to study the environment offered an occasion for expansive learning. However, without the description of the business models using Osterwalder and Pigneur's ontology [14], we would not have been able to differentiate business logics associated with different cases. By having a better overview of the business models, we could better evaluate the fit between the solutions and the environment Future research is needed to formulate a more complete framework grounded in the richer process data of mobile payment diffusion trajectories. We plan to expand the current framework with findings from the study of actual diffusion processes. In Table 1, we outline the phases of mobile payment diffusion and suggest which factors are likely to promote success in different stages based on the findings from the cases We also aim to conduct a set of more encompassing case studies in several national and industry contexts In this way, we hope to unveil a more complete set of factors that influence the success of payment solutions in a given environment. By aggregating findings from these studies, we expect to solicit a more encompassing suite of explanatory patterns in the diffusion of mobile payments. Another direction is to apply the proposed model to investigate other mobile services including location-based services or mobile TV. These solutions share similar characteristics including two-sided markets, importance of the network externalities complex and embedded technology, coordination challenges across industries raising significant standardization challenges, and thus are mostly likely driven by the same set of factors. However, these services differ as they create new markets and new streams of revenues, which is not the case with mobile payment solutions where the solution directly competes with existing solutions References 1] Y. Au and R. Kauffman. The economics of mobile payments: Understanding stakeholder issues for an emerging financial technology application. Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, 7:141?164, 2008 2] D. Balaban. Japan?s mobile wallets fail to inspire ? yet Card Technology, 13-04-2007, 2007 3] T. Dahlberg, M. Huurros, and A. Ainamo. Lost opportunity why has dominant design failed to emerge for the mobile payment services market in Finland. 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Jan 2008 4] T. Dahlberg and N. Mallat. Mobile payment service 


4] T. Dahlberg and N. Mallat. Mobile payment service development - managerial implications of consumer value perceptions. The Tenth European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 5] T. Dahlberg, N. Mallat, J. Ondrus, and A. Zmijewska Past, present and future of mobile payments research: A literature review. Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, 7\(2 6] D. Evans and R. Schmalensee. Paying with plastic : the digital revolution in buying and borrowing. The MIT Press 2nd edition, 2005 7] R. Javalgi and R. Ramsey. Strategic issues of e-commerce as an alternative global distribution system. International Marketing Review, 18\(4 8] C. Jayawardhena and P. Foley. Changes in the banking sector - the case of Internet banking in the UK. Internet Research, 10\(1 9] P. Lawrence and J. Lorsch. Organisation and Environment. Irwin, Homewood, Illinois, 1967 10] M. Lieberman and D. Montgomery. First-mover advantages. Strategic Management Journal, Summer Special Issue 9:41?58, Jan 1988 11] R. Nelson and S. Winter. An Evolutionary Theory of Economic change. Harvard University Press, Cambridge MA., 1982 12] S. Oh, H. Lee, S. Kurnia, R. Johnston, and B. Lim. A stakeholder perspective on successful electronic payment systems diffusion. 39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2006 13] J. Ondrus and Y. Pigneur. Cross-industry preferences for mobile payments development in Switzerland. Electronic Markets, 17\(2 14] A. Osterwalder and Y. Pigneur. An e-Business Model Ontology for Modeling e-Business. 15th Bled Electronic Commerce Conference, 2002 15] C. Perrow. A framework for the comparative analysis of organizations. American Sociological Review, 32\(2 208, 1967 16] M. Porter. Competitive Strategy. Free Press, New York 1980 17] J. Rochet and J. Tirole. Platform competition in twosided markets. Journal of the European Economic Association, 1\(4 18] C. Shapiro and H. Varian. Information Rules: A Strategic Guide to the Network Economy. Harvard Business School Press, Boston, MA, 1999 19] K. Taga and J. Karlsson. Arthur D. Little Global MPayment 2004. Technical report, Arthur D. Little?s Telecommunications, IT, Media &amp; Electronics \(TIME Practice, Vienna, Austria, 2004 20] J. Thompson. Organizations in Action. McGraw-Hill New York, NY, 1967  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


the truth than available empirical data. Secondly, in practice, individual and group knowledge is mediated and situated, provisional and pragmatic, aspirational and contested. In this case at least, a broad but robust theory of electronic discourse proved useful in teasing out intertwined technical, interpersonal and personal issues. Thirdly, GSS technology has a raw power that the facilitator may direct via the application of this theory. The author has found the architecture of Habermasian discourses a useful archetype for mid-range operational models in various domains. Finally, the methodology of a critical interpretive case study is recommended for critiquing the support provided by collaborative technologies in situations involving dissensus. Such an approach is required to study why participants are inauthentic in their participation in collaboration technologies, or avoid them completely as communication closes down in response to unresolved conflict. The application of ideas about pragmatism and systemic intervention provides a practice model that extends the practical and decisionistic applications of critical research in information systems, and places positivist technology-based theories of collaborative design in the context of power relations In practice, interaction on problematic issues is subject to confusion and conflict. However these are the experiences required to disambiguate a mess of facts, norms and feelings. Seen from a Hegelian perspective, the power of a design theory for collaborative technologies based on Habermasian discourses, lies not in achievement of enlightenment but in appreciation of the nature of ignorance, and the practical consequences of belief  7. References  1] Metcalfe, M. ?Pragmatic Inquiry,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 59, 2008, 1091-1099 2] Omerod, R. ?The History and Ideas of Pragmatism Journal of the Operational Research Society 57, 2006, 892909 3] Boyd, A., Geerling, T., Gregory, W.J., Kagan, C Midgley, G., Murray, P., Walsh, M.P  Systemic Evaluation: A Participative, Multi-Method Approach   Journal of the Operational Research Society 58, 2007 1306-1320 4] Midgley, G. Systemic Intervention: Philosophy Methodology, and Practice, Kluwer Academic / Plenum New York, 2000 5] Churchman, C.W. The Design of Inquiring Systems Basic Books, New York, 1971 6] Rosenhead, J., and Mingers, J., Editors  Rational Analysis For a Problematic World Revisited  John Wiley and Sons, Ltd, Chichester, 2001 7] Jackson, MC. ?Systems Thinking: Creative Holism For Managers.? John Wiley and Sons, Ltd, Chichester, 2003 8] Midgley, G., Editor. ?Systems Thinking?, Sage, London 2003 9] Ulrich, W  Philosophy For Professionals: Towards Critical Pragmatism  Viewpoint, Journal of the Operational Research Society 58, 2007, 1109-1113 10] Schultze, U., Leidner, D.E. ?Studying Knowledge Management in Information Systems Research: Discourses and Theoretical Assumptions,? MIS Quarterly 26\(3 213-242 11] Habermas, J. The Theory of Communicative Action Volume 1: Reason and the Rationalization of Society translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


