html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">A Study of  U.S. Battlefield Medical Treatment/Evacuation Compliance with HIPAA Requirements   John Chessman Captain, United States Air Force    Alan R. Heminger, Ph.D Air Force Institute of Technology alan.heminger@afit.edu   The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do not reflect the official  policy or position of the United States Air Force, Department of Defense, or the United States Government   Abstract The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA, 1996 private treatment of medical information.  Congress included the U.S. military healthcare system under HIPAA?s umbrella.  However, a combat environment can place unusual constraints on the provision of medical services.  This paper develops a model of battlefield medical treatment and evacuation, and then uses the knowledge of experts in a Delphi group to assess the completeness and accuracy of that model and to recommend improvements to the process The Delphi group agreed that partial compliance is provided for HIPAA at the beginning of treatment and evacuation, and full compliance is followed later in the process.  Recommendations for improving this model were largely administrative, \(written guidance training, and use of cover sheets want to revisit the issue of the partial compliance to bring law and policy into agreement with practice learned in the crucible of the battlefield  1. Introduction The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA 104-191, was enacted on August 21, 1996, and went into effect on April 14, 2003.   HIPAA was intended to protect the health insurance coverage for working families when they changed or lost their jobs, guard against fraud, waste, and abuse, and establish specific requirements for security, privacy, and administrative simplification in the exchange of electronic health data among employers, insurers, and providers [1].  The Military Health System is considered a health plan under HIPAA law and is obligated to comply with all HIPAA regulations [3].  The battlefield is a uniquely military environment in which time is of the essence and the extra burdens imposed by HIPAA compliance could impact the survival of military wounded The purpose of this study is to examine the implementation of HIPAA during battlefield medical treatment to determine how HIPAA is being interpreted by those providing battlefield medicine and to determine where it may make sense for battlefield medical teams to comply with HIPAA regulations when treating military wounded HIPAA has three main parts: \(1 Portability, \(2 Abuse, and \(3 focusing on privacy and security [14].  This study will address only the Administrative Simplification section 


address only the Administrative Simplification section of HIPAA.  Administrative Simplification is intended to protect access to patient protected health information \(PHI effectiveness of the health care system by standardizing electronic data exchange.  HIPAA requires appropriate technical, administrative and physical safeguards to protect the privacy of health information.  HIPAA is designed to standardize the handling of PHI and to promote data standards for the electronic exchange of medical information [14 HIPAA Administration Simplification implementation is guided by two formal rules: the Security Rule and the Privacy Rule.  The Security Rule describes the standards for the security of electronic PHI in any electronic medium [9].  The Privacy Rule protects all individually identifiable health information records held or transmitted by a covered entity and specifies who can access the patient information [12, 13].  The Privacy Act of 1974 and HIPAA Privacy Rule have very similar requirements The Security and Privacy rules are the basis for handling and transmitting protected health information in all media [18 The active duty Military Health System is specifically mentioned in the HIPAA law.  All Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3 2009 U.S. Government Work Not Protected by U.S. Copyright Military Treatment Facilities must comply with the HIPAA regulations. The Department of Defense DoD battlefield medical treatment [2].  The law does permit exceptions to support unique military requirements such as information crucial to force health readiness HIPAA places additional administrative burdens on deploying medical forces [3].  Additional administrative personnel are required to process the extra requirements and properly protect the information.  The forms, paper, and processing equipment required take up precious pallet space on military airlift.  For these reasons alone, the Air Force medical community has requested waivers to HIPAA compliance [2, 7  1.1. Need for Solution When HIPAA was written, Congress made it clear that HIPAA applies to the DoD.  However, it did not foresee all of the potential impacts of the HIPAA regulations on military operations.  For example, any information about battlefield casualties which could lead to the identification of a specific member is prohibited from public release.  This has implications for family members? ability to get a status update and even state governors and members of congress ability to obtain casualty information for their districts Senator Ted Kennedy, one of the sponsors of the HIPAA bill, has publicly said it was not his intent to block battlefield casualty information from being released when HIPAA was written.  Yet this is one of the unintended consequences of the HIPAA law [17 Thus, it appears not to make sense for HIPAA to completely apply to battlefield wounded at all stages of the treatment process, yet the intention of Congress was to apply it to the U. S. military.  This has led to confusion as to where it should take effect.   At some point between being wounded and arriving back in the United States for treatment the HIPAA requirements take effect  1.2 Problem to be researched This study will explore how the Administrative Simplification, security and privacy provisions of 


Simplification, security and privacy provisions of HIPAA are currently being implemented in the provision of U.S. Military battlefield medicine, as well as seeking to elicit recommendations for improvements from those involved in the process  1.3. Scope Of the three main parts of HIPAA, \(1 Portability, \(2 3 the security and privacy rules of Administrative Simplification, the security and privacy issues appear to have particular relevance to how medical treatment is provided on the battlefield.  Therefore, the study was limited to HIPAA compliance with the security and privacy aspects of the HIPAA law during the battlefield medical treatment/evacuation process Further, much of the emphasis was on the Air Force evacuation steps, because the Air Force is the primary service to carry out the evacuation of battlefield wounded  2. Literature Review  Public Law 104-191, The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA signed into law by President Clinton on August 21 1996.  HIPAA protects individuals from losing their health coverage when changing jobs \(Portability it increases the federal government?s authority over medical fraud and abuse \(Accountability  HIPAA law lists the Military Health System as a Health Plan, which is a covered entity under HIPAA and subject to the HIPAA regulations [3].  Covered entities are health care providers, health plans, and health care clearinghouses.  They are required to protect individually identifiable health information Protected health information \(PHI identifiable health information relating to an individual's past, present, or future physical or mental health condition, provision of health care, or payment for the provision of health care [1 To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system, Congress included Administrative Simplification provisions into HIPAA [14].  Sections 261 through 264 require the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services \(HHS publish national standards for the electronic exchange privacy and security of electronic health care information transactions between covered entities and these together are known as the Administrative Simplification provisions [14].  Congress recognized that the pace of electronic technology advances would endanger the security and privacy of health information. [12]. To meet this need, Congress included provisions in HIPAA that mandated federal privacy protections for individually identifiable health information [3].  Another goal of HIPAA was the development of the electronic health record, or the electronic medical record as it is commonly referred Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 to.  Electronic medical records help reduce the administrative costs of updating, storing, and protecting health records.  The HIPAA Administrative Simplification provisions are guided by two rules: the Security Rule and the Privacy Rule [14 While we found no research that directly addressed HIPAA compliance on the battlefield situated learning [11] suggests that we may find that the actual practice of battlefield medicine with respect to HIPAA compliance with security and privacy may not map directly to the explicit expectations of the 


not map directly to the explicit expectations of the law.  Situated learning suggests that learning occurs as a function of the activity, the context in which it takes place, and the culture of the participants.  In other words, learning to do something as a member of a community of practice is affected not only by the abstract knowledge that can be delivered in a sterile or academic environment; it is also affected by the context in which the activity occurs, and the culture of those involved.  Thus, in a war zone, we could expect that a medical team would learn to carry out its tasks in the context of an active battlefield and the culture of those operating in that environment Thus, we might expect that the actual practice of providing battlefield medicine may not look exactly like it would be presented in an abstract classroom far removed from the chaos, fear, and confusion of a lifethreatening environment  2.1. Security Rule The Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA required the Department of Health and Human Services to establish national standards for the security of electronic health care information.  The Health Insurance Reform: Security Standards, better known as the Security Rule, describes the standards for the security of electronic protected health information EPHI Federal Register on February 20, 2003, and final compliance took effect on April 21, 2006.  The Security Rule has three subsections: Administrative Physical, and Technical.  Administrative safeguards are policies and procedures to clearly demonstrate how the entity will comply with HIPAA, and include written privacy policies and the designation of a Privacy Officer.   Physical safeguards control physical access to protected health information to avoid unauthorized access to protected data. Technical safeguards control access to computer systems and protect PHI transmitted over open networks from being intercepted [9  2.2. Privacy Rule HIPAA required the Secretary of HHS to issue privacy regulations covering PHI within three years of passing if Congress did not enact Privacy Legislation In 1999, Health and Human Services \(HHS the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, or the Privacy Rule, and it went into effect on April 14, 2003.  The Privacy Rule protects all individually identifiable health information held or transmitted by a covered entity.  Unlike the Security Rule, the Privacy Rule is not limited to PHI in electronic format.  It covers all PHI information in any format to include: electronic, written, or oral form The Privacy Rule applies to health plans, health care clearinghouses, and to any health care provider who transmits health information in electronic form [13 The Privacy Rule gives patients more control over their medical records. Patients have the right to see their records, the right to request corrections to the record, and the right to restrict its use for certain purposes.  The privacy rule also requires that covered entities provide their privacy policies to their patients on their first visit.  The HHS Office for Civil Rights is charged with enforcing the Privacy Rule [13  2.3. HIPAA Impact The Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 required the DoD to develop regulations to improve the privacy protections of DoD medical records.  The Act required 


protections of DoD medical records.  The Act required a comprehensive plan be submitted to Congress to improve medical record privacy protection.  The Act also required the plan to be consistent with the soonto-be-implemented HIPAA requirements [18].   The Act passed during the interim period after HIPAA passed and before the Security and Privacy rules went in to full effect on 14 April 2003.  The Authorization Act shows Congress?s determination to protect the privacy of all Health information regardless of the entity The Military Health System is considered a health plan under HIPAA and must comply with the requirements of HIPAA as if it were a civilian healthcare plan [3].  HIPAA does make certain limited exceptions to meet unique military requirements, such as the transfer of medical information about active duty force health readiness [3].  Compliance to the HIPAA provisions has required and will continue to require considerable resources from the DoD.  Full compliance with all sections of HIPAA is expected to cost over $100 million [17 Under the HIPAA privacy rules, individually identifiable health information is not allowed to be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 publicly reported without the express permission of the patient or next of kin.  It is possible that if a service member has not authorized the release of his or her PHI, then not even family members are authorized to receive medical updates [17].  HIPAA regulations make tracking casualty information difficult even for state governors and members of congress [2, 17 Literature relating directly to HIPAA on the battlefield is almost non-existent.  Most information relating to active duty health is focused on the Military Treatment Centers in the United States and established bases overseas, where the normal HIPAA requirements are identical to those of civilian facilities.  There are indications that the HIPAA requirements put an enormous burden on deployed medical teams.  A 2004 position paper by Maj Greentree AF/SGMA suggested the HIPAA requirements detract from the primary medical mission of treating and evacuating patients.  HIPAA would require that extra administrative personnel and supplies be transported on already crowded airlift assets. The position paper recommended excluding Air Force Medical Service deployed units and operating forces from HIPAA compliance while in theater [7 The literature is clear that the military is required by law to comply with HIPAA regulations under normal day to day operations.  Congress included the Military Health System in the language of the HIPAA law to ensure it was covered.  Given the demands of the myriad of privacy regulations the military must adhere to and the exemptions allowed under HIPAA, it is not clear when real world enforcement makes sense in a combat theater of operations.  If the question is asked of the military medical community, the quick answer will likely be, ?It applies everywhere.?  The reality of enforcement in a theater of active combat operations may be quite different  3. Methodology  This study used the Delphi Method to address the research problem.  Delphi Studies were developed by the RAND Corporation for the US Air Force as a method of forecasting solutions to strategic military problems.  It is a method for utilizing the expertise of a group of experts while minimizing the negative 


aspects of group interactions by eliminating the need for physical interaction among the group members.  It is intended to ?obtain the most reliable consensus of opinion of a group of experts? [5].  It uses a series of questionnaires and controlled opinion feedback [6 15 The Delphi panel for this study was comprised of HIPAA and Privacy officers, a civilian HIPAA expert from a major university, emergency room personnel and medical readiness specialists.  Because of the proximity of the researchers to a major U.S. Air Force base, it was possible to find people in each of these knowledge areas who had extensive experience and knowledge of their part of the overall issues.  The panel members were selected from among the available people based on both the researchers informal assessment of their particular expertise, and their reputation among their peers in the local area The Delphi study questionnaire was developed from the results of the literature review and initial interviews of medical personnel There is no clear consensus concerning the appropriate number of participants for a Delphi study 15], but the number seems to fluctuate somewhere between 7 [5] and 15 [16]. If the Delphi participants all come from the same discipline \(e.g. computer programmers participants, whereas a more heterogeneous population expertise in the same area, but pulled from different social/professional levels participants [4].  Since the participants for this study came from different disciplines, it was determined that somewhere between 5 and 10 participants would be sufficient  3.1. Initial Model  A conceptual model of the battlefield treatment/evacuation process was developed from information gleaned from unstructured interviews with 3 recently deployed military personnel.  They had all recently served in the medical field in the Iraq theatre This model provided the beginning point for the Delphi group?s efforts to reach agreement on the as-is model of battlefield treatment and evacuation.  The initial model consisted of the following six steps   Table 1 Initial Battlefield Treatment/ Evacuation Model Step 1 ? Battlefield treatment/evacuation Step 2 ? Battalion Aid Station HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries Step 3 - Medical Company HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries Step 4 ? Combat Support Hospital \(CSH HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries Step 5 ? Air Force Theater Hospitals HIPAA Issues Covered charts 50 person bays Step 6 ? Army Medical Center  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4   3.2. Delphi Group  The Delphi group members were Active Duty and Civilian Air Force medical personnel, an Active Duty Army surgeon, and a civilian university professor Subjects were selected based on two factors:  HIPAA 


Subjects were selected based on two factors:  HIPAA knowledge and deployed medical experience in a combat arena.  The criterion for deployment was at least one deployment to a combat theater of operations in the last three years in a medical capacity.  For selection based on HIPAA knowledge the criteria was extensive knowledge of HIPAA in a military medical environment.  Two civilian HIPAA experts were on the panel, one of whom is a university professor who served on a HIPAA advisory committee to congress when the law was drafted.  The military members were emergency room and deployment readiness experts who have extensive medical experience in a deployed, combat environment. These are personnel who each have multiple deployments to medical facilities in the Iraq and Afghanistan Theaters of operations and have been involved with HIPAA compliance while deployed The following protocol was developed to guide the Delphi study: Building on the initial as-is battlefield treatment/evacuation model, flesh out and validate the model based on input from the Delphi group.   Then, based on the improved as-is model, ask the Delphi group to recommend a to-be model of HIPAA compliance.  Before Round One, the model and questions were pilot tested on 2 individuals and they were found to be clear after a few minor changes were made   4. Results of the study  Round one of the Delphi study included the initial model, plus a questionnaire, asking the Delphi group members to express their level of agreement with the model and to suggest any changes needed to make it more accurate Eight surveys were sent out and seven were returned over a three week period.  All seven members of the Delphi group responded to all questions. All seven members of the panel agreed with the model in general.  However, five of the seven members pointed out missing steps that could be included to make the model more accurate.  The changes and additional steps were incorporated into the new models for round two.  The responses about compliance with HIPAA were divided between full compliance and partial compliance at various steps.  When those in the group said that the treatment/evacuation model used partial compliance, they were specifically referring to partial compliance in two areas.  First, partial compliance occurred when medical treatment took precedence over administrative tasks, and when letting a wounded soldier?s buddies know his/her condition at or near the battlefield. This division spawned two models for round two reflecting the split in responses.  The differences were between partial and full compliance with the HIPAA requirements  Table 2: Round one Battlefield Treatment Evacuation Model 2A Step 1 ? Battlefield treatment/evacuation HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 2 ? Battalion Aid Station HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 3 - Medical Company HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 4 ? Combat Support Hospital \(CSH HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries 


HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 5 ? AF Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility \(AFCASF HIPAA Issues Unit Inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 6 ? Air Force Theater Hospitals HIPAA Issues Unit Inquiries HIPAA compliance Full Step 7 ? AF Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility \(AFCASF HIPAA Issues Unit Inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 8 ? Army or AF Medical Center HIPAA Compliance Full Step 9 ? Return to U.S HIPAA Compliance Full    Table 3: Round one Battlefield Treatment Evacuation Model 2b Step 1 ? Battlefield treatment/evacuation HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 2 ? Battalion Aid Station HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 3 - Medical Company HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 4 ? Combat Support Hospital \(CSH HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 5 ? AF Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility \(AFCASF HIPAA issues Unit Inquiries HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 6 ? Air Force Theater Hospitals  HIPAA issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 7 ? Army Medical Center HIPAA issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 8 ? Army or AF Medical Center HIPAA Compliance Full Step 9 ? Return to U.S HIPAA Compliance Full  A panel member who had served in the Afghanistan area of operations responded to the question, ?In general, do you agree with the model that the model did not allow for the differences between Iraq and Afghanistan. But in general, it represented the ?general scheme of things? and that operational situations may dictate changes to the flow of the model.  On the next question, ?Do you have any changes to make to the model?? he stated that the Afghanistan treatment/evacuation process is very compressed compared to the Iraq model.  In Afghanistan, the Forward Surgical Teams \(FST split in half and are co-located with Battalion Aid Stations on small forward bases along the Pakistan border.  The combat support hospital \(CSH Afghanistan is also the Theater Hospital and the Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility \(CASF and the patients are evacuated straight to the OCONUS step of the treatment/evacuation model 


OCONUS step of the treatment/evacuation model This was a surprise finding due to the fact that up to this point in the study, all research suggested that the Iraq and Afghanistan theaters of operations were the same from a treatment/evacuation perspective Most of the panel members had only been deployed to the Iraq or Kuwait theater of operations and apparently were unaware of the differences between these areas and the Afghanistan theater of operations.  These findings prompted the creation of a separate model to reflect the Afghanistan battlefield medical treatment/evacuation procedures \(See Table 4 below In response to the question ?How does HIPAA apply at each stage?,? the panel member with Afghanistan experience reported that, in Afghanistan, the patient documentation relating to care and evacuation for the CSH is entered and stored in a secured clinical database which makes it easier to be tracked by all authorized parties.  On the ground, the commanders are made aware of all pertinent medical information that affects the mission capabilities of his/her soldiers and unit.  The system has both security and privacy built in.  This helps meet HIPAA requirements, but according to the panel member the system is focused primarily on operational security  Table 4: Battlefield Treatment/ Evacuation Model for Afghanistan Step 1 ? Battlefield treatment/evacuation HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 2 ? Battalion Aid Station HIPAA Compliance Partial HIPAA Compliance Full Step 3 ? Army Combat Support Hospital \(CSH HIPAA Compliance Partial Step 4 ? Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility CASF HIPAA Issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 5 ? Army or Air Force Medical Center HIPAA Compliance Full Step 5 ? Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility CASF HIPAA issues Unit inquiries HIPAA Compliance Full Step 6 ? Army Medical Center HIPAA Compliance Full  For Round Two, models 2A, 2B and the Afghanistan model were presented, and the panel members were asked to respond the models that fit their area of deployment.  For those representing the Iraq/Kuwait area, the Delphi members were asked to reflect on models 2A and 2B and select the one that they believed was a better fit.  The two models differed in that some reported in the first round that there was full compliance at every step in the medical treatment/evacuation process, while others reported only partial compliance in the early stages of the process The participants were then asked if they had any additional changes to the model they chose.  Finally each participant was asked what could be done to better implement HIPAA at each step of the model Eight sets of questions were sent out and five were returned over a two week period.  Some of the Delphi group members had redeployed to the war zone during the time of the study, so they were not all able to respond to all rounds of the study Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 For the model of how the HIPAA requirements 


For the model of how the HIPAA requirements for security and privacy were implemented, all members of the panel with Iraq experience selected Model 2b, which had partial compliance in steps 1 thru 6 and full compliance in steps 7 thru 9, indicating that unit inquiries were answered up through the time that the wounded left the theater of war and were evacuated to medical centers. The single panel member with Afghanistan experience made no changes to that model for round 2.  Although the Afghanistan model was more compressed than the Iraq model, unit inquiries were also honored while the wounded were still in the theater of war.  Once the wounded left the theater, some unit requests were still received, but by this time full compliance was the norm The Delphi group was also asked for recommendations to better implement HIPAA at each stage of the model.  In general, the group suggested that model 2B was a good model for the future implementation of HIPAA requirements.  Several members did offer suggestions for further improvement that were mainly centered on administrative fixes such as ?Clear written guidance Cover letters?, and ?Education to field medics.?  One of the panel members noted that full compliance with HIPAA is probably somewhat budget constrained as full compliance would require additional resources of people and equipment  5. Summary  The responses to the Delphi Rounds suggest that there is a common perception among the Delphi Panel members that HIPAA compliance is largely in place throughout the treatment/evacuation process, with partial compliance at or very near the time and place of battlefield injuries.  At that point, variances from full compliance reflect a focus on medical treatment over administrative procedures, and telling buddies of the wounded soldier his/her condition.  The panel recommendations for improvements in the model are entirely administrative in nature, leaving these two areas of deviation from HIPAA requirements in place The initial model of HIPAA compliance with battlefield medicine appeared to match closely with the learning of how ?it is supposed to be?, even though the model was created by people who had served in that battlefield environment.  Interestingly, when, in round one of the Delphi study, several of the participants pointed out that what actually happens isn?t quite what the abstract-learning model would indicate, everyone agreed on a modified model in which several deviations from prescriptive behavior take place.  It appears that the learning that takes place in the actual battlefield environment takes into account factors such as saving lives first, administrative tasks second, and keeping soldiers advised of their buddies conditions, even though that isn?t prescribed behavior for HIPAA compliance.  This appears to support what might be predicted by situated learning [11  6.   Discussion  In the first round of the study all participants were in agreement except for how much HIPAA is being implemented. The third question asked each participant ?How does HIPAA apply at each step The basic breakdown of responses was that several of the participants felt that HIPAA was partially implemented at each step and a few others said that HIPAA was fully implemented in each step.  As noted 


earlier, this difference prompted the creation of two models for Round Two.  For those who said compliance was partial, all were referring to a focus on patient care and keeping units and buddies informed about medical status to the extent that some administrative steps were not always carried out in full, and information about a wounded persons condition was shared with his/her buddies.  In all cases the responses said that patient care took the precedence over administrative requirements.  Situated learning may explain why what takes place on the battlefield doesn?t fit with what was contemplated in the abstract creation of the HIPAA law.  Those in a position to do so may want to revisit the legal and policy positions with regard to HIPAA compliance with security and privacy to take these situated learning behaviors into account When asked to provide suggestions for improvements in how HIPAA requirements could be implemented the panel gave a range of administrative responses. The three most frequent responses were clear written guidance, training on the guidance and clearly marked cover sheets One of the issues mentioned by two members of the panel during the study was unauthorized requests for patient information from unit members and high ranking military members.  The study suggests that when these requests occur, the lack of written guidance puts an extra burden on the medical personnel because they don?t have clear written operating instructions to fall back on.  It is not inconceivable that low ranking military members could be approached for patient PHI by a high ranking military member or even a member of congress.  The pressure felt to release the requested information would likely be immense.  Without clear written Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 guidance to reference, the members would have to rely upon the support of their chain of command to ensure they didn?t release patient PHI to unauthorized individuals.  If they were to release the requested PHI to an unauthorized person, they would have violated HIPAA and could conceivability find themselves facing legal and financial penalties Another and more frequent source of unauthorized requests for patient PHI was reported to come from the members of the patient?s unit.  When a member of a unit is wounded in the course of a mission, it is only natural his or her buddies will likely want to know the status of their team mate.  Under current HIPAA policy, these unit members are not one of the authorized categories authorized to receive this information without the patient?s permission.  The responses from the panel suggest the morale of the remaining members of the wounded individual?s unit should be taken into account, and that the current practice, especially at the initial steps of the model, is to provide at least minimal information to the unit members.  In many cases, the bonds between unit members in combat are as strong as if they were family members. The morale of a unit could be affected by the denial of status information for the fallen team mate and could affect performance in coming missions HIPAA policy allows commanders and their designees to ask for information regarding the status of personnel under them, but is limited to PHI in the interests of fitness for duty and to perform a mission There are other individuals who may have an interest in PHI in a combat situation, other than the commander, and who may not be a ?designee? and 


commander, and who may not be a ?designee? and probably do not have access.  In addition to morale factors, the health information could, in combat, be critical to squad leaders, platoon leaders, flight leaders, or anyone else who might not fit the definition of "commander".  They would certainly be concerned about the person, but would also need to know information" for replacement of a skill set, to protect others, or to assess readiness.  They may need to know the person?s status to know if the person will return or if they will need to request a replacement. A unit missing critical skills sets could be at a disadvantage when operating in the field.  This issue could impact the mission readiness of combat units and may need to be addressed in the future. The Delphi group responses suggest that policy may need to be modified to allow for some information on patient condition to be legally given to unit members on the basis of morale concerns and unit readiness as this may impact readiness of combat units The issues raised by the Delphi panel suggest that the DoD policy formation may not have completely considered HIPAA implications in a combat zone There are provisions in the policy for fitness for duty fitness for a particular mission and casualty reporting but beyond that it seems like DoD may have extended the HIPAA policy without thinking it through.   It may be that DoD wanted to avoid any possibility of a lawsuit or other legal issue and may have extended HIPAA compliance too far down All members of the Delphi Panel chose a model of partial compliance in the combat theater of operations not one of full compliance. Current practice suggests that having freedom of motion in complying with HIPAA during combat seems to be working well according to the Delphi panel. While current interpretation of HIPAA policy does not appear to be full compliance on the battlefield itself, it does appear that full compliance kicks in soon after the wounded person is evacuated and medical treatment is begun and tends to be in place by the time the wounded soldier leaves the theater of operations. It may be worth looking at how the policy can be written to fit how things are actually done In consultation with legal authorities DoD policy and HIPAA policy could be modified to accept current partial HIPAA compliance on the battlefield, thus supporting what was reported to be happening now For example, we may want to consider unit members who may be giving medical aid at the front to be exempt from HIPAA until the wounded reaches the BAS.  Once at the BAS, unit chain of command could be authorized get status and fitness for duty information, and they would then have authority to release information to unit members.  Unit members may receive basic status information such as will they live and will the wounded members return. Once the wounded is at the CSH, status and fitness for duty information could be given to the unit commander?s and down to the squad leader level It was assumed there would be common way to handle battlefield causalities in the military medical system but the research suggests there may be differences in different areas of operations.  Future research may need to tie down for sure if that is true in other cases as well, and if so, how this will have impact on how HIPAA is implemented  7. Conclusions  There does seem to be fairly standard practice and implementation of HIPAA policy in combat areas and 


implementation of HIPAA policy in combat areas and it is one in which the strict interpretation of HIPAA does not come into play until casualties reach a certain Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 stage of the treatment/evacuation process, generally when they leave the theater of war.  Situated learning suggests that this may be based on learning that takes place in the context of actually providing battlefield medicine. The findings of the study suggest that the military may benefit from examining this learned behavior to see if it is to be preferred over current policy.  If the current practice is preferable, the DoD could, in consultation with legal guidance, adjust DoD HIPAA compliance policy at every level of the battlefield medical process to clearly define who can have access to PHI at each stage and under what conditions that access is to be granted If DoD made these changes to the current policy it could go a long way toward clarifying the requirements placed on deployed medical personnel at all levels of the treatment/evacuation model.  Clear written guidance and training would help ensure that the Privacy Rule of HIPAA was complied with and help avoid unnecessary and potentially costly violations of the law.  The more the process can be clarified for the medical personnel all along the treatment/evacuation process the better the chance of full HIPAA compliance at all steps of the process  8. Limitations of the study  An Inherent limitation of all Delphi studies is that results depend on the knowledge of a small set of identified experts.  To the extent that other experts might see things differently, the conclusions could be called into question.  The panel consisted of Air Force medical personnel, with primarily Iraq and Kuwait deployment experience with one member having Afghanistan experience.  A panel with more even distribution between the two theaters of operations might yield more refined insights into HIPAA compliance on the battlefield  9. Recommendations for Future Research  Now that a basic model of the battlefield medical treatment/evacuation process, including HIPAA compliance at each step, has been identified additional research could be done to validate the findings and look at areas beyond the scope of this study The panel consisted of Air Force medical personnel with primarily Iraq and Kuwait deployment experience. One member was knowledgeable about HIPAA issues in Afghanistan, due to past and current deployment experience.  This study could be applied using members of services other than the Air Force to explore the possibility that medical personnel for the Army, Navy and Marines view the treatment/evacuation process differently Situated learning suggests that the modifications made to the rules for undertaking battlefield medicine may be at least partially the result of the chaotic frightening environment within which such services are performed.  However, even if this is the case, this research does not clarify whether this is the best way to implement HIPAA requirements; only that it happens.  This research did not explore all the possible ramifications of working under the developed model versus a more rigidly enforced model of complying with HIPAA. Further research could explore whether 


with HIPAA. Further research could explore whether this descriptive model should also be accepted as a prescriptive model This study assumed there would be a common way to handle battlefield causalities in the medical system, but there is evidence from the research to suggest there may be differences in different areas of operations. The study identified differences between Iraq and Afghanistan, and future research should explore the significance, if any, of this finding Many individuals within the military community but outside the medical field must have access to patient PHI.  A recommendation is made to conduct research on the many non-medical personnel who may have a need to have access to HIPAA information such as unit members, squad leaders, and such.  This could help to identify how these non-medical personnel can best be served while supporting the underlying concepts of HIPAA It would also be very important to explore the legal aspects of this issue, to ensure that solutions meet legal requirements  10. References  1] Antognini, R. \(2002 Consequences: HIPAA and Liability Insurers [Electronic Version]. Defense Counsel Journal. Jul 2002. 69, \(3 306  2] Ash, L. \(2006 track troops wounded in Iraq. Courier Post Online. March 19, 2006  3] Butler, M. \(2002 U.S. Medicine Information Central  4] Clayton, Mark J. ?Delphi: A Technique to Harness Expert Opinion for Critical Decision-Making Tasks in Education?, Educational Psychology, 17:4, \(Dec 1997  5] Dalkey, N.C., Helmer, O. \(1963 Application of the Delphi Method to the Use of Experts Management Science, 9 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  6] Fowles, J., \(1978 Greenwood Press: Connecticut  7] Greentree \(2004 HIPAA Privacy Compliance. 15 Apr 04.  HQ AF/SGMA  8] Harman, L. B. \(2005 Online Journal of Issues in Nursing. 10\(2  9] Health and Human Services. \(2003 Reform: Security Standards; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 162, and 164  10] Health and Human Services. \(2007 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 14 April 2007  11] Lave J., Wenger E. 1991. Situated Learning. Legitimate peripheral participation, Cambridge, University of Cambridge Press  12] Leahy, P. \(1997 parameters for the information age.  Privacy of Medical Records Committee on Labor and Human Resources, U.S Senate 


Senate  13] Office for Civil Rights. \(2002 Individually Identifiable Health Information; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 and 164  14] Office for Civil Rights. \(2006 Simplification [45 CFR Parts 160, 162 and 164  15] Rowe, Gene, George Wright \(1999 Technique as a forecasting tool: issues and analysis International Journal of Forecasting, 15  16] Westbrook, Lynn. ?Information Access Issues for Interdisciplinary Scholars: Results of a Delphi Study on Women?s Studies Research?, Journal of Academic Librarianship, 23:3, \(May 1997  17] Williams, S. \(2004 troops. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. October 4, 2004  18] Wolfowitz, P. \(2002 Privacy Protections for DoD Medical Records Memorandum to Committee on Armed Services. March 1 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


                                                      


                         L A                                        


          L A  Table 7. Table of Granules at left-hand-side is isomorphic to  at right- hand-side: By Theorem  3.1 one can ?nd patterns in either table as a single generalized concept  Internal points  are:[4]\(1, 1, 0, 0 tions; [5]\(0, 1, 1, 0  0, 1, 0, 1  0, 1, 1, 1  1, 1 1, 0  1, 1, 0, 1  1, 0, 1, 1 11]\(1, 1, 1, 1 form and simplify them into disjoint normal forms 1  T E N    S J    T E N    S J 2  T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A 3  T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   A 4  T W E N T Y            L A 5  T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N    T W E N T Y   A   S J    T W E N T Y   A      T H I R T Y    L A     Y 7  T E N      T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   L A    T E N   L A    S  J   A 8  T W E N T Y      T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N   T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y 9  T W E N T Y    N Y    T E N    S J    T H I R T Y    L A      T W E N T Y    L A  1 0  T W E N T Y    N Y    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A    J 1 1  T W E N T Y          T W E N T Y    L A   T H I R T Y    L A    a l l If the simpli?ed expression is a single clause \(in the original symbols non-generalized the following associations 1   T E N     S J    T E N    S J  2. SJ   J 4   L A    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y    6 Conclusions Data, patterns, method of derivations, and useful-ness are key ingredients in AM. In this paper, we formalize the current state of AM: Data are a table of symbols. The patterns are the formulas of input symbols that repeat. The method of derivations is the most conservative and reliable one, namely, mathematical deductions. The results are somewhat surprising 1. Patterns are properties of the isomorphic class, not an individual relation - This implies that the notion of patterns may not mature yet and explains why there are so many extracted association rules 2. Un-interpreted attributes \(features can be enumerated 3. Generalized associations can be found by solving integral linear inequalities. Unfortunately, the number is enormous. This signi?es the current notion of data and patterns \(implied by the algorithms 4. Real world modeling may be needed to create a much more meaningful notion of patterns. In the current state of AM, a pattern is simply a repeated data that may have no real world meaning. So we may need to introduce some semantics into the data model [12],[10],[11 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE References 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases  in Proceeding of ACM-SIGMOD international Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 


216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 2] Richard A. Brualdi, Introductory Combinatorics, Prentice Hall, 1992 3] A. Barr and E.A. Feigenbaum, The handbook of Arti?cial Intelligence, Willam Kaufmann 1981 4] Margaret H. Dunham, Data Mining Introduction and Advanced Topics Prentice Hall, 2003, ISBN 0-13088892-3 5] Fayad U. M., Piatetsky-Sjapiro, G. Smyth, P. \(1996 From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery: An overview. In Fayard, Piatetsky-Sjapiro, Smyth, and Uthurusamy eds., Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI/MIT Press, 1996 6] H Gracia-Molina, J. Ullman. &amp; J. Windin, J, Database Systems The Complete Book, Prentice Hall, 2002 7] T. T. Lee  Algebraic Theory of Relational Databases  The Bell System Technical Journal Vol 62, No 10, December, 1983, pp.3159-3204 8] T. Y. Lin  Deductive Data Mining: Mathematical Foundation of Database Mining  in: the Proceedings of 9th International Conference, RSFDGrC 2003 Chongqing, China, May 2003, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence LNAI 2639, Springer-Verlag, 403-405 9] T. Y. Lin  Attribute \(Feature  The Theory of Attributes from Data Mining Prospect  in: Proceeding of IEEE international Conference on Data Mining, Maebashi, Japan, Dec 9-12, 2002, pp. pp.282-289 10] T. Y. Lin  Data Mining and Machine Oriented Modeling: A Granular Computing Approach  Journal of Applied Intelligence, Kluwer, Vol. 13, No 2, September/October,2000, pp.113-124 11] T. Y. Lin, N. Zhong, J. Duong, S. Ohsuga  Frameworks for Mining Binary Relations in Data  In: Rough sets and Current Trends in Computing, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence 1424, A. Skoworn and L Polkowski \(eds 12] E. Louie,T. Y. Lin  Semantics Oriented Association Rules  In: 2002 World Congress of Computational Intelligence, Honolulu, Hawaii, May 12-17, 2002, 956961 \(paper # 5702 13  The Power and Limit of Neural Networks  Proceedings of the 1996 EngineeringSystems Design and Analysis Conference, Montpellier, France, July 1-4, 1996 Vol. 7, 49-53 14] Morel, Jean-Michel and Sergio Solimini, Variational methods in image segmentation : with seven image processing experiments Boston : Birkhuser, 1995 15] H. Liu and H. Motoda  Feature Transformation and Subset Selection  IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol. 13 No. 2, March/April, pp.26-28 \(1998 16] Z. Pawlak, Rough sets. Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





