html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Research and  Implementation of a Universal ETL Management Platform based on Telecom Industry  He Li1?2, Zang Miao2, Cai Liang2 1. College of Information Science and Technology Beijing Forestry University Beijing, China 2. College of Information Engineering North China University of Technology Beijing, China yudianhl@163.com, zangmiao@ncut.edu.cn, cailiang@163.com  Abstract- ETL is an important process in building data warehouse For processing large volume of data and accessing to heterogeneous multi-data sources, how to efficiently shorten the execution time and possess the ability of general accessing data sources is a big challenge. Aiming at the special requirements of telecommunication decision support system, this paper proposes a solution of a general ETL management platform, realizing such functions as accessing several heterogeneous data sources and monitoring ETL process. Considering the characteristic of massive data in telecom system, by means of thread pool technologies, this ETL management platform improves the multithreading technology to raise the ETL efficiency and resource utilization. At last, the system results prove this solution is efficient and valid Keywords- ETL; Data Warehouse; Meta data; Connection Pool I.  INTRODUCTION With the rapid development of informationization technology, enterprises have accumulated a great deal of information and data, which are the base of scientific management of enterprises and decision analysis. So many large companies have set up data warehouse \(DW their core competitiveness, especially for such enterprises possessing amount of data as telecommunications and banking The source data extraction, transformation and loading \(ETL one of the most important aspects of building data warehouse system. The performance of ETL directly impacts the operating efficiency and the final result of the whole data warehouse system. If the data warehouse model design is assimilated to a blueprint of a building, then ETL is the process of constructing the building. ETL design and implementation is about 60% 80% of the entire data warehouse workload, which is the general consensus coming form domestic and international data warehouse practice [1 Owing to the late beginning research of domestic data warehouse, at present, most of the data warehouse applications are monopolized by foreign DW products. Therefore, the general ETL tools are rare in China. The representative foreign ETL tools are Microsoft's DTS, Informatica  s DataStage Oracle's Warehouse Builder and IBM  s Warehouse Manager etc These ETL tools provide management interfaces based on graphics or script, to a certain extent to improve the system development and operating efficiency. However, there are still some shortcomings in the case of openness and integration as following: \(1 satisfying the users  secondary development request; \(2 prices and development costs; \(3 Although these tools have a certain amount of commonality they still can not meet the needs of domestic users Therefore, Aiming at the background of developing the decision support system of Hebei Province Netcom Corporation this paper proposes a universal ETL system architecture based on distributed, heterogeneous data sources, a flexible solution to deal with the problems of massive data, data sources complexity and data import efficiency. This system not only realized extracting, transforming and loading Meta data from heterogeneous data sources; but also allowed users to monitor and manage the whole data process, and deal with abnormal exception to make the system more robust and reliable. This 


exception to make the system more robust and reliable. This ETL management platform has been applied into the decision support system of Hebei Province Netcom Corporation II. TECHNOLOGY BACKGROUND A. The definition of ETL Extraction-transformation-loading?ETL importing source data into the data warehouse. The position in Data Warehouse technical architecture is shown in Figure1  Figure1. Data warehouse technical architecture Supported by National High Technology Research and Development Program of China?NO. 2006AA10Z232 978-1-4244-4507-3/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE From Figure1, we can see the importance of ETL in Data warehouse technical architecture. ETL is the entrance of data flowing into data warehouse.   ETL process is the fundamental work to create quality information in the data warehouse. We extract data from source systems, and clean, verify, validate, and then convert it into a consistent state; at last, move it into the warehouse So ETL builds a bridge between operational system and data warehouse, and provides a unified interface for a variety of analysis and application based on DW B. ETL process ETL process includes three parts as following  Extraction: The process of selecting specific operational attributes from the various operational systems including full data extraction and incremental data extraction. It is not a simple process of importing data During the course of actual project development, taking the amount of involved data and low implementation efficiency factors into account, incremental extraction is often adopted. These methods are mainly timestamps triggers and logs etc  Transformation:  The process of integrating, verifying validating, cleaning, and time stamping the selected data into a consistent and uniform format for the target databases. Rejected data is returned to the data owner for correction and reprocessing. Data transformation process can be implemented in different phases. One solution is during the extraction course, utilizing DBMS function or user-defined conversion function to complete transformation. The other is after extraction process, using pre-designed general data conversion components to complete transformation  Loading: The process of moving data from an intermediate storage area into the target warehouse database. These steps include emptying data domain dealing with space and inspecting data effectiveness etc ETL Tools make these tasks comparatively easy to setup maintain, and manage. These specialized tools can be an expensive option, which motivates many warehouses to employ customized ETL programs written in C++, PL/SQL, or other programming languages or application development tools III.  SYSTEM  DESIGN According to the actual demand of decision support system of Hebei Province Netcom Corporation, the goal of this universal ETL management platform comprises two parts: one is  to extract useful data from different business systems such as telephone billing systems, customer service subsystems to extract useful data and clean up to ensure data correctness, and then after extract, converse and load into an enterprise-class data warehouse; the other is by means of this platform,  to achieve the real-time monitoring of the whole ETL process and deal with exceptions A. The architecture structure of ETL management platform Here, we define series of data processing operations including data extraction, transformation, cleansing, loading as an ETL job. Therefore ETL management platform is a common data-processing platform for providing job support and job management, including the job creation, job configuration, the 


management, including the job creation, job configuration, the job state transition, job scheduling, management monitoring and so on. The architecture structure of ETL management platform is shown in Figure 2 Data source  ETL management platform Job scheduling and monitoring Rules management Interface configuration Log maintenance Real-time monitoring Exception solution Data warehouse  Figure2. The system architecture structure  Rules management module: This part function is to describe the data extraction, conversion, loading rules and provide a common rule description way so as to make this platform more expansible, this part is the core of the ETL platform  Interface configuration: This part mainly includes documents configuration and configuration databases 1 directory corresponded by business units, working directory, target directory, exception-handling directory conversing and cleaning logic file etc. \(2 configuration mainly comprises business unit extraction conversion cycle, the corresponding database tables and fields, the corresponding field to the conversion logic automatically running logic and so on  Log maintenance module: the main task is to record and manage important information during the process of system running, providing the basis for real-time monitoring module  Real-time monitoring and exception handling module the main function is to deal with exception coming from the running system, and implement system recovery so as to improve the system reliability B. Database design of the ETL system According to the actual situation of Hebei Province Netcom Corporation, the original system data mainly come from DB2 ORACLE, and MSSQL heterogeneous data sources, after considering and comparing the characteristics and performance of several typical database products, we decide to choose DB2 as the destination database for DW. Due to limited space, so the design of each database table is omitted. Here only the database physical model is shown in Figure3  Figure3. Database physical model IV. KEY REALIZATION TECHNOLOGIES A. Universal database connection pool technology At present, the majority of WEB system development model are based on JSP and JDBC database connection, and this model needs to establish a database connection for each Web request which not only spend some communication and memory resources, but also complete such tasks as user authentication the context of security configuration and correct connection close etc Moreover, after releasing database resources, JAVA processes still exist in the database process, resulting in inefficient resource management connection. This paper solved the unreasonable resource allocation problem through developing a common database connection pool. The work flow of database connection pool is shown in Figure 4  


 No Yes No Yes Database Connection pool Get Connection Existing connection Set being used status Use Connection Set spare status after using Add Connection Connection number &gt; MAX Waiting releasing resource Put connection into pool  Figure4. The work flow of database connection pool We design three classes to realize database connection pool PoolManager class: its function is to manage connection pool, obtaining the parameters of resources and through these parameters scheduling connection pool PoolConnection class: the main task is to do some underlying connection operations and maintain the size of the entire connection pool ConnectionManager class: this part is to realize each connection management, mainly to set the connection  s free or busy status. At present, this connection pool can support DB2 ORALCE, MSSQL, MYSQL database through JDBC and ODBC connection interface B. Optimized metadata accessing  technology to heterogeneous data sources For the reason that the data amount of telecommunications industry is very great \(TB capability extraction rules, we add a data transition storage area between source database and target database. Firstly we load the extracted data into the data transition storage area, and then transform the data into target storage format, at last load into the target data warehouse On the one hand, the data transition storage area provides a unified interface to connect the source database and the target database, the burden of data centers can be reduced greatly; on the other hand, the data transmission interface are also significantly reduced, and  the efficiency and flexibility of data extraction, purification, transformation and loading are enhanced C. AJAX technology Asynchronous JavaScript and XML \(for short AJAX interactive Web page development technology. AJAX application utilizes SOAP or other XML-based web service interface to send data to the server and retrieve data from the server, and the client deals with the response from the server by means of JavaScript technology, to some extent, which can reduce the processing time for WEB servers. In this system there are two places using AJAX technology: one is metadata accessing; the other is code table maintenance At the same time when choosing the drop-down menu utilizing JavaScript program to get menu change event, call the function, transfer the menu value to another page ,select the appropriate information from the database, return the information to JAVASCRIPT program, at last through callback function deal with the information and show the results on the client page. The series of operations are completed on an instant selecting a drop-down menu option, so response speed is greatly improved 


improved V. SYSTEM  RESULTS This universal ETL management system adopts J2EE as development platform, Tomcat as Web server, DB2 as the target data warehouse, and STRUTS framework as the whole architecture Fogure5 is the database connection parameter setting interface. After selecting database type, database name, source database, target database, clicking the connect button, the obtained meta data can be displayed and stored into template storage area preparing for succedent extraction and transformation. Meta data are shown in figure6 Figure7 is the partly data-loading results after building extraction and transformation rules  Figure5. Database connection parameter setting interface   Figure6 Meta data display   Figure7. The load results after defining transformation rules VI. CONCLUSION At present, the study and development of general ETL tools is always a research hot spot in data warehouse field. On the background of developing the decision support system of Hebei Province Netcom Corporation, this paper implements a universal ETL management platform, realizing these functions including ETL processing, monitoring and ETL log and so on This ETL platform combines thread pool technologies, XML technologies, and parallel processing technology, accordingly improve ETL efficiency and meet the needs of high-timeliness characteristics of telecommunications data. Log and monitor functions enhance the whole system  s controllability and security This ETL management platform has been in actual use and runs well. However, there is a lot of work to be done in the next step, such as providing more flexible data access interface to support more types of heterogeneous data sources, further improving data cleansing and conversion efficiency and more reliable ETL exception handling mechanism  REFERENCES 1] Wu Jian  Research and Design ofETL in Data Integration Platform  D Beijing: North China Electric PowerUniversity,2007 2] INMON W. H, DataWarehouse [M]. 3rded. Beijing: ChinaMachine Press 2003 3] Zhang Yong, Yang Kun-jin and Wang Wen-jie  Analysis and Design for ETL in Mobile Business Analysis System  J].Computer Engineering and Applications, 2006, 42 \(3 4] Chen Xian, Chen Song-qiao  Design and Implementation of GeneralETLToolBased on DataWarehouse  J]. Application 5] Zhou Mao-we,Deng Su  An ETL Tool Design and Realization Based on Metadata  J]. Science Technology and Engineering, 2006, 6 \(21 125 6] Miao Jia-jia, Deng Su  Overview on ETL Technology  J ComputerEngineering, 2004, 30 \(3               


  pre></body></html 


 0  100  200  300  400  500 1 2 4 8 16 Throughput \(MB/s Number of I/O threads Random Read Performance Under Different Backend Rawdisk EXT2  EXT3  XFS   150  200  250  300  350 1 2 4 8 16 Throughput \(MB/s Number of I/O threads Sequential Read Performance Under Different Backend Rawdisk EXT2  EXT3  XFS   100  1000  10000 1 2 4 8 16 Maximum Latency Time\(ms Number of I/O threads Maxmum Latency Time Under Different Backend RAWDISK EXT2  EXT3  XFS   0  2  4  6  8  10  12 1 2 4 8 16 Throughput \(MB/s Number of I/O threads Random Write Performance Under Different Backend Rawdisk EXT2  EXT3  XFS   0  5  10  15  20 1 2 4 8 16 Throughput \(MB/s Number of I/O threads Sequential Write Performance Under Different Backend Rawdisk EXT2  EXT3  XFS   0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  1  1.2  1.4  1.6  1.8 1 2 4 8 16 Average Latency Time\(ms Number of I/O threads Average Latency Time Under Different Backend RAWDISK EXT2  EXT3  XFS  Figure 3 Performance of different storage back-end for EDOS formance Our extensible hash operates several times faster than linear table because of its weak retrieval capability 3 Hybrid Stress Testing  Lastly we compared these  le system performance with several solution on object store including EDOS on the long term span and veri  ed the durable performance since durability and slow degradation is the key to build powerful service Based on the Benchmark II in table III we enlarged the trace samples to long term emulation Figure 2\(d shows that the average throughput of each solution degrades by the escaped time EXT2/3 adopt the allocation with  xed length which are more sensitive to the space continuity and degrades more obviously than other does The Reusable blocks and the swap mechanism make it resilient to space management EDOS realized allocation with variable size by the attribute  PCTVERSION  C Storage Back-end There will have several problems with respect to whether using a raw disk directly or native storage abstraction To verify this impact on pe rformance  we replace the underlying  open   read   write and lseek  interface calls to work on a raw partition for raw disk I/O emulation We leverage Tiobench 2  a portable threaded  le system benchmark program supporting pthreads  to test the concurrency I/O performance for the various back-end storage media Before testing a object-based  le system client needs to be created which kept to the VFS-style architecture and was used to wrap the local  le operations by OSD protocol Each thread running on the client then creates a  le to measure read and write operations across the network Figure 3 shows the average read and write throughput at sequential or random offsets inside of  les and raw block devices as well as average and maximum access latencies 2 http://sourceforge.net/projects/tiobench The result in  gure 3 shows that EXT2 is the best performing Linux  le system for transaction process applications but it may lead to data corruption because EXT2 lacks ordered data mode For that reason we recommend using EXT3 as it both performs well and supports ordered data mode The measurement was performed for XFS as well it has problems with applications which repeatedly extend  les and that is a common usage pattern in KBDBS D Chunk size In KBDBS the different tables could be assigned page size\(for objects we call it chunk size It is the basic access unit and decides the granularity of concurrency since the bigger chunk size the fewer chunks in which the more data will be locked However space allocator guarantee the continuity inside the chunk so that big chunk leads to high throughput usually Some evidences can be found in  gure 4 To access small chunk is possible to create more random I/O which dose harm to the performance a lot However when chunk size up to 2MB it is not so much enhancement 16MB is the preference choice for our testing workload and up to the threshold the throughput starts to drop down Intuitively the performance will be dominated by how long it takes to get the data to or from the disks Given the request unit the small disk I/O will be easy to be accomplished with more request circle the large chunk will mean that most I/Os get serviced by a single disk I/Os However We leverage the KBDBs own strategies to gather I/Os to minimize I/O overhead In that case we need to know what the database is actually doing to choose the right chunk size E Cost of Operation Replication The prototype uses a replication degree of one and strict replication the cost of replication is expressed by the cost of transporting the operation to replicate to the succeeding 
426 


 0  10  20  30  40  50  60 0 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 256 512 1024 2048 4096 8192 16384 32768 65536 Average Throughput \(MB/S MINI-DB Chunk Size \( x 1KB 0 0.5 1 2 4 6 8 14 22 32 42 48 53.5 55 56 57.5 56 52 Figure 4 Chunk size in MINI-DB impact the performance Replication Average response time Comparison Disabled 10.7 ms 100 Enabled 21.2 ms 198 Table IV Replication of EDOS node and the time it takes the s ucceeding node to execute the operation and reply.In addition replication comes with the cost of using extra storage In our prototype there are two copies of each record the primary and the replica The actual cost of replication compared to the time it takes to execute on the primary node can be greatly affected by two factors 1 work load on the succeeding node 2 network latency/bandwidth according to the size of operation data If the network latency between the primary and replica node is on the order of hundred s of milliseconds or even seconds the cost of replication is very high An application deployed on the Internet would have to relax the response time bounds The network latency between the nodes in our test system is in the range 0.1 0.3 milliseconds shared with each host of the same performance Test results for two equal test runs are show in Table IV below where replication was disabled in the  rst run and enabled in the second 100000 put-operations were executed for each run The size of the successor list was set to two As can be seen we experienced nearly a twofold increase in response times when replication was enabled This seems reasonable as the request must be carried out at two nodes instead of one The extra usage of CPU resources related to the replication should be low as the prototype simply sends the request to the succeeding node executes the operation locally and then fetches the r esult from the succeeding node V R ELATED W ORK Database File Systems  Before Gnome Storage WinFS and now Apple Spotlight IBMs AS/400 is based on an object-oriented database  lesystem which is implemented at the  rmware level rather than at the OS-level The PICK OS was an even earlier example of a database  lesystem it has an SQL-like language to query databases and create reports KBDBFS and I3FS of FSL lab employed in-kernel database to support extra characters wrapped standard  le system operations the useful extensions include extended attributes ACLs a new operation to retrieve  le integrity checker and intrusion detection  le system 13   14  15    16  DB F S is a block-structured embeddable  le system developed on top of the Berkeley DB BDB with an interface largely consistent with the normal POSIX  le system interface by FUSE.The Mac has used a database to store  les and their attendant meta-data since HFS was introduced It uses Btrees idea of having a resource fork to all  les a little name badge for every  le that tells type information Contrary to HFS BeOS 17 al l o w s for c reat i o n o f your o w n obj ect s and in the  le system Close but replace   lename with attributes Besides some  le systems are built on the top of very famous open source database such as PqsqlFS from inverted  le system mysqlFS and tabFS uses SQLlite as its storage end Object-based File System  With the advent of OSD Object Storage Device 18  IBM released OSDFS 19 it is an extension to Ext2 that works with an OSD The Panfs integrates an object-bas ed clustered architecture to orchestrate  le activity across the Storage Cluster and manage system performance Solaris OSD Project consists of the Solaris SCSA-compliant device drivers and related software to provide both initiator and target support for storage devices that adhere to the OSD protocol Intels Open Storage Toolkit contains reference implementations of OSD and comes up with whole suite containing OSDFS OSD initiator OSD Target simulator which DISC-OSD suite was built based on PDL has a OSD implementation of its own called the ursa minor They are integrating it with their pnfs implementation Ceph 12  i s a di s t ri b u t e d  le system for petabyte scale  les in which intelligent OSDs manage data replication failure detection and data migration during failure recovery or system expansion VI C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE WORK With the rethinking of object-b ased characters and storage managers technique clues the novel search based architecture for object store EDOS has been analyzed and proposed which employs a stable Mini-DB core supporting transaction and replication The EDOS makes it easy to ensure the reliability and extensibility for object store and innovative features can be rapidly prototyped and stronger storage semantics can be explored Our experiments veri  ed our hypothesis on the issue The competition for iSCSI is Object-based storage This competition will become more intense in the near future with the advent of the high performance interconnection and transport technique such as Remote Direct Memory 
427 


Access\(RDMA 20 W e will tar g et th e n e w co n d itio n t o rethink the storage management again A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work is supported by the National Basic Research 973 Program of China under Grant No 2004CB318201 863 project 2008AA01A402 Changjiang innovative group of Education of China No IRT0725 National Universitys Special Resarch Fee\(C2009m052 R EFERENCES 1 S  A bi t e boul  S  C l u et  a nd T  Mi l o   A d at abase i nt er f a ce for  le update in SIGMOD 95 Proceedings of the 1995 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data  vol 24 no 2 New York NY USA ACM Press May 1995 pp 386397 Onlin  A v a i l a bl e ht t p  dx.doi.org/10.1145/223784.223854  F  W ang S  A Br  E  L  M iller  and D  D  E  L ong Obfs A  le system for object-based storage devices in FA S T 03 The 2003 Conference on File and Storage Technologies FAST  IEEE 2003 pp 283300 3 B  W el ch M  U nangst  Z  A bbasi  G  G i b son B  Muel l e r  J Small J Zelenka and B Zhou Scalable performance of the panasas parallel  le system in FAST08 Proceedings of the 6th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies  Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2008 pp 117 A v a ilable http://portal acm o r g  citation.cfm?id=1364815 4 F  C hang J D ean S  G hema w a t  W  C  H s i e h D  A  Wallach,M.Burrows,T.Chandra,A.Fikes,andR.E Gruber Bigtable A distributed storage system for structured data in OSDI06 Seventh Symposium on Operating System Design and Implementation  Seattle WA USA November 2006 pp 205218 Onlin  A v a i l a bl e ht t p  www.usenix.org/events/osdi06/tech/chang.html  K i r an D  A  H ol l a nd U Braun and M  S el t zer   P r o v e nanceaware storage systems in ATEC 06 Proceedings of the annual conference on USENIX 06 Annual Technical Conference  Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2006 p 4 A v a ilable h ttp://portal.acm.org/citation cfm?id=1267359.1267363 6 M  M esni er  E  T her e ska G  R  G a nger  D  E l l a r d  and M Seltzer File classi  cation in self storage systems 2004 pp 4451 Onlin  A v a i l a bl e ht t p  ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs  all.jsp?arnumber=1301346 7 R  S ear s C  v a n I ngen and J  G r a y  T o b l o b o r not t o bl ob Large object storage in a database or a  lesystem 8 A  B iliris  An e f  cient database storage structure for large dynamic objects in In Proceedings of the International Conference on Data Engineering  1992 pp 301308 9 A  T r a e g er  E  Z adok N  Jouk o v  a nd C  P  W r i ght   A nine year study of  le system and storage benchmarking in FAST 08 Proceedings of the 7th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies  vol 4 no 2 New York NY USA ACM 2008 pp 156 Onlin  A v a i l a bl e http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1367829.1367831  John R  A  T h ekkat h  a nd L  Z hou B oxw ood A b st r act i o ns as the foundation for storage infrastructure in OSDI 04 Proceedings of the 5th symposium on Operating systems design and implementation  pp 105120 Onlin  A v a i l a bl e http://www.usenix.org/events/osdi04/tech/maccormick.html  D  K  G i f f or d P  Jouv el ot  M  A  S hel don and J  W  O  T ool e  Semantic  le systems in Proceedings of 13th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles  Association for Computing Machinery SIGOPS 1991 pp 1625 Onlin  Available http://citeseer.ist.p su.edu/gifford91semantic.html  S  A W e il S  A Brandt E  L  M iller  D D E  L ong and C Maltzahn Ceph a scalable high-performance distributed  le system in OSDI 06 Proceedings of the 7th symposium on Operating systems design and implementation  Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2006 pp 307 320 A v a ilable http portal.acm.org/citation.cfm id=1298455.1298485  C P  W r ight R  S pillane  G Sivathanu and E Zadok Extending acid semantics to the  le system vol 3 no 2 New York NY USA ACM Press June 2007 Onlin  Available http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1242520.1242521  A Kashyap S  P a til G S i v a thanu and E Zadok I3FS An In-Kernel Integrity Checker and Intrusion Detection File System in Proceedings of the 18th USENIX Large Installation System Administration Conference LISA 2004  Atlanta GA USENIX Association November 2004 pp 6979  M A  O l son T he desi gn and i mpl e ment at i o n o f t he i n v e r s i o n  le system in In Proceedings of the Winter 1993 USENIX Technical Conference  San Diego CA USENIX 1993 pp 205218 16 A Ka sh y a p   F ile Sy ste m Ex te n s ib ility a n d R e lia b ility U sing an in-Kernel Database Masters thesis Stony Brook University December 2004 technical Report FSL-04-06 www.fsl.cs.sunysb.edu/docs/kbdbfs-msthesis/kbdbfs.pdf  D  G i ampaol o Practical File System Design with the Be File System  Morgan Kaufmann Publishers January 1999 Onlin  A v a i l a bl e ht t p    w w w  a mazon ca e x ec obi dos redirect?tag=citeulike09-20  amp;path=ASIN/1558604979  M Fact or  K  M et h D  N a or  O  R odeh and J  S at r a n O bj ect storage the future building block for storage systems Local to Global Data Inter operability C hallenges and Technologies 2005  pp 119123 20-24 June 2005 Onlin  Available http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LGDI.2005.1612479  M Mesni e r  G R Ganger  and E  R i e del  Obj ect based storage in Communications Magazine IEEE  vol 41 no 8 2003 pp 8490 A v a ilabl e http://dx.doi.org/10 1109/MCOM.2003.1222722  M Chadal apaka H S h ah U  E l z ur  P  T hal e r  and M Ko A study of iscsi extensions for rdma iser in NICELI 03 Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM workshop on Network-I/O convergence NewYork,NY USA ACM Press 2003 pp 209219 Onlin  A v a i l a bl e http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/944747.944754 
428 


IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN Matrix Nc Benchmark IrregRed SpMV Avg. Max Min Avg. Max Min s3dkq4m2 2 -6,9 -5,6 -7,4 4,2 4,4 4,04 -4,5 -0,6 -6,5 0,8 3,0 -0,2 8 -2,0 3,0 -3,0 2,0 6,3 -1,9 3dtube 2 -2,5 -0,8 -3,9 5,3 5,7 5,14 4,4 8,1 1,9 -3,2 -0,9 -4,7 8 2,2 18,3 -2,7 2,4 8,0 -1,7 nasasrb 2 -3,7 -0,2 -5,1 3,0 4,1 2,64 -2,3 2,7 -3,3 -2,5 0,4 -5,0 8 -0,1 12,1 -1,9 6,8 12,6 2,5 struct3 2 1,1 3,9 0,3 -3,6 -1,0 -5,64 0,1 4,3 -0,4 -1,2 3,4 -3,1 8 0,2 6,5 -1,5 3,0 7,3 0,6 bcsstk29 2 0,1 2,1 -0,3 -2,2 1,0 -2,94 -0,1 5,2 -1,0 0,6 3,0 -0,1 8 0,7 11,1 -2,7 -1,4 3,5 -2,6 bcsstk17 2 -0,1 2,9 -0,4 0,9 4,1 0,54 0,5 12,6 -1,4 0,6 3,6 0 8 1,4 20,4 -3,6 -0,6 5,0 -1,8 IARD, where there are no dependencies between threads, the outcomes in Table VIII show that all differences are below 6%, except for some cases in the biggest matrices: nasasrb SpMV, 8 threads IrregRed, 2 threads In general, especially for small matrices, our distribution performs better than the automatic one C. Influence of Cache Coherency Taking into account that this kind of irregular codes strives to maximise the thread locality, we do not expect to notice important performance decreases due to the cache coherency protocols when the input matrices are big enough, since they will be masked by the traffic in the bus. If the matrices fit in each core  s cache, all misses, except the capacity ones, will be solved by the snooping protocol inside the bus, faster than 152 asking the directory. However, this will not usually be the case in real applications, because this type of codes usually operates with matrices far bigger than the cache size VI. CONCLUSIONS This paper presented the results of several tests carried out to characterise FINISTERRAE, an SMP-NUMA machine, in order to study the suitability of applying strategies to parallelise irregular codes initially developed for SMP systems The main factors considered were the thread-to-core distribution and the memory allocation. Firstly, a benchmark was executed to test the performance influence of several cores when sharing a bus and allocating the data in local or remote memory. Secondly, another benchmark was used to evaluate the influence of the cache coherency between two cores when sharing data. Furthermore, another test evaluated the memory access latency depending on the memory module allocated \(local, remote or interleaving At the sight of the results, we can claim that, especially for applications which use the bus intensively, the effect of sharing a bus between two or more cores degrades the performance and should be avoided by spreading the threads among cores in different buses when possible. We must take into account, though, that the test to evaluate the local and remote memory access latencies yielded important differences between them. Therefore, in cases where the threads must be spread in two cells the best policy will be to analyse and split the data in both memory zones, maximising the locality or, when not possible, allocating the data in the interleaving zone Regarding the cache coherency, the effects in the performance are noticeable when dealing with small sizes of data which fit into caches. The more the memory size increases the less significant the effect is. Therefore, for small data sizes, it would be advisable to map the threads on cores in the same bus. For bigger data sizes, the effect of sharing a bus will be more important and it will mask the effect of cache coherency. A noteworthy fact is that every core in the same processor behaves as an independent processor, so we can consider two processors in a bus as four independent 


can consider two processors in a bus as four independent cores After the benchmarking stage, an actual strategy to parallelise irregular codes, successfully tested on SMP architectures, was ported to FINISTERRAE. A set of matrices was chosen and reordered with this strategy, being applied subsequently to the sparse matrix-vector product and the Irregular Reduction benchmarks. Since this code works with sparse data, the effects regarding bus sharing were not as noticeable as in the previous stage. However, it was possible to confirm the importance of spreading the threads among cores in different buses when dealing with big data sizes the behaviour of each core as an independent processor, and the fact that the coherency effects are masked by the bus sharing when increasing the data size As a future work, we intend to develop strategies to guide applications at run-time in the frame of our project, so the conclusions presented here will help to define a thread-tocore mapping and memory allocation policies ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the MCyT of Spain through the TIN2007-67537-C03-01 project and by the 2008/CE377 contract among HP, CESGA, UDC and USC REFERENCES 1] L. Rauchwerger, N. M. Amato, and D. A. Padua  Run-time methods for parallelizing partially parallel loops  in Proc. of the Int. Conf. on Supercomputing. ACM press, 1995, pp 137  146 2] R. Eigenmann, J. Hoeflinger, and D. Padua  On the automatic parallelization of the perfect benchmarks  IEEE Trans Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 5  23, 1998 3] E. Gutie  rrez, O. Plata, and E. L. Zapata  A compiler method for the parallel execution of irregular reductions in scalable shared memory multiprocessors  in Proc. of the Int. Conf on Supercomputing, ACM SIGARCH. Springer-Verlag, May 2000, pp. 78  87 4] Galicia Supercomputing Centre, http://www.cesga.es 5] J. W. Tobias Klug, Michael Ott and C. Trinitis  Autopin - automated optimization of thread-to-core pinning on multicore systems  in Transactions on HiPEAC, vol. 3, no. 4, 2008 6] S. Williams, L. Oliker, R. Vuduc, J. Shalf, K. Yelick, and J. Demmel  Optimization of sparse matrix-vector multiplication on emerging multicore platforms  in SC  07: Proc. of the 2007 ACM/IEEE Conf. on Supercomputing. New York NY, USA: ACM, 2007, pp. 1  12 7] M. Norde  n, H. Lo  f, J. Rantakokko, and S. Holmgren  Dynamic data migration for structured amr solvers  International Journal of Parallel Programming, vol. 35, no. 5, pp 477  491, 2007 8] Performance Application Programming Interface http://icl.cs.utk.edu/papi 9] S. Eranian, The perfmon2 Interface Specification. Technical Report HPL-2004-200R1. HP Labs, February 2005 10] Perfmon2 monitoring interface and Pfmon monitoring tool http://perfmon2.sourceforge.net 11] HP Integrity rx7640 Server Quick Specs, http://h18000 www1.hp.com/products/quickspecs/12470 div/12470 div.pdf 12] D.E.Singh, M.J.Martin, and F.F.Rivera  A run-time framework for parallelizing loops with irregular accesses  in Proc Seventh Workshop Languages, Compilers, and Run-Time Systems for Scalable Computers, Washington DC, USA, 2002 13] The Harwell-Boeing Sparse Matrix Collection http://math.nist.gov/MatrixMarket/collections/hb.html 153 pre></body></html 


also be used to define constraints for service selection At run-time, the workflow engine for XML nets interprets and evaluates Filter Schemas and transition inscriptions to filter and create Web service descriptions as XML documents. With process monitoring and administration tools which are usual components of workflow management systems, new criterions and constraints for WS discovery and selection can be incorporated at run-time by reconfiguring transition inscription statements and variable instantiations in Filter Schemas  Instantiating abstract WS transition Figure 4 shows a fragment of the abstract WSC process in Section 5.1 to demonstrate the ability of XML nets in WS discovery. To obtain transport information, Web services whose descriptions are stored in an unknown WSDL repository should be discovered The token count of the place representing the repository is supposed to be unlimited. The abstract transitions find transport info service? and ?get transport information? are used to bind and call Web services at runtime. The incoming arc of the transition ?find transport info service? is a reading connection \(represented by a dashed arc nipulative Filter Schema FS2 used to create Web service descriptions is assigned to the outgoing arc of this transition. FS1 and FS2 are both generated according to WSDL Schema  Adapting abstract WS transition at run-time Suppose that the transition ?get transport information? is used to acquire flight information. Variables in FS1 should be \(partly  3 http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl#A4.1 4 http://uddi.org/schema/uddi_v3.xsd es supplying flight information. As shown in Figure 5a the variable of the attribute filter ?name? of the element filter ?service? is instantiated with a regular expression for filtering Web services whose name contains the string ?flight?. This regular expression, together with the Filter Schema, is parsed to XQuery/XPath statements in process simulation or execution. If we use a reconfiguration tool to modify the regular expression at run-time as shown for example in Figure 5b, the transition ?get transport information? can then be adapted to acquire other transport information, e.g., train information. After a suitable WSDL document has been found, FS2 is used to create a new WSDL document for the place ?WS description by cloning the discovered document. Figure 5c shows the diagram of FS2 containing the WSDL root element definitions? and an element placeholder, which is used because the internal structure and details of the document to be created are not of interest in the case of document duplication  QoS-aware WS selection XML nets can also be used to select desired Web services if service constraints like QoS or customized preferences are taken into consideration. As WSDL and OWL-S provide no or limited ways for describing Web service?s QoS, we use in this paper OWL-QoS 43], which complements OWL-S with an ontology to specify QoS metrics for Web services, to demonstrate the ability of XML nets for \(QoS-aware Naturally, other Web service ontologies \(e.g., MOQ 11 e.g., WSLA [18 can also be used for this purpose Figure 6 shows another XML net fragment for the acquisition of transport information by selecting OWL 


acquisition of transport information by selecting OWLQoS documents which describe quality of Web services from a repository that contains 3 OWL-QoS documents discovered previously. Similar to the example in Figure 2, the Filter Schema FS1 is used to read and select appropriate OWL-QoS documents, and the Filter Schema FS2 to create new OWL-QoS documents for the place ?OWL-QoS document?. As Filter Schema provides no means for formulating inequality operators like ?&gt;? and ?&lt;=?, which are usually used to express constraints with parameters whose quantitative values are limited to a certain interval, transition inscriptions Figure 4. XML net for Web service discovery Figure 5. Filter Schemas for Web service discovery definitions 1 service name: \\s*flight\\s*/i c definitions service name: \\s*train\\s*/i b a definitions 1 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 can be used in combination with Filter Schemas to formulate QoS constrains Suppose that the traveler wants to use only the Web services that cost no more than 100 US Cent. The Filter Schema FS1 should then be created as shown in Figure 7. The variable of the attribute filter ?rdf: resource? of the element filter ?owl: onProperty? is instantiated with a regular expression to filter OWL-QoS documents specifying the property ?costUSCent?. To ensure that the maximal cost of the Web service doesn?t exceed 100 US cent, the inscription of the transition ?select transport info service? should be formulated as owl:maxCardinality &lt;= 100?. In process simulation or execution, the inscription is parsed and integrated into XQuery statements using XPath inequality operators  6. Conclusions  In this paper we presented a WSC method based on XML nets, which inherit advantages of Petri nets such as formal semantics and graphical expression. XML nets have additional strengths in the description of process and data objects, and the exchange of XMLbased structured data. The advantage of using XML nets for WSC is that control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling, and WS discovery and selection can be realized using a uniform powerful modeling language. Some uncomplicated tasks, as illustrated before, can be fulfilled without developing or using additional software components or agents. Naturally XML nets can also be combined with other Web service techniques to fulfill more complicated and demanding tasks  7. Acknowledgement  The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for many valuable comments on an earlier version of this paper  8. References  1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching 


1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching Web Service Coordination and Composition by Means of Petri Nets: the Case of the Nets-within-Nets Paradigm?, ICSOC 2005, LNCS 3826, pp.185-197, 2005 2] M. ter Beek, A. Bucchiarone, and S. Gnesi, ?Web Service Composition Approaches: From Industrial Standards to Formal Methods?, Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services \(ICIW?07 Computer Society, 2007 3] X.N. Feng, Q. Liu, and Z. Wang, ?A Web Service Composition Modeling and Evaluation Method Used Petri Net?, LNCS Volume 3842/2006, pp. 905-911, SpringerVerlag, 2006 4] H. Foster, S. Uchitel, J. Magee, and J. Kramer, ?Modelbased verification of Web Service Compositions?, 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 152- 161, 2003 5] X. Fu, T. Bultan, and J.W. Su, ?Analysis of Interacting BPEL Web Services?, WWW2004, pp. 17-22, New York USA, May 2004 6] J.D. Ge, H.Y. Hu, P. Lu, H. Hu, and J. L  Translation of Nets Within Nets in Cross-Organizational Software Process Modeling?, SPW 2005, LNCS 3840, pp. 60-375 Springer-Verlag, 2005 7] Group for program system, faculty of Information Technique University Dortmund, ?PDDL?, http://ls5www.cs.uni-dortmund.de/~edelkamp/ipc-4/pddl.html 8] R. Hamadi and B. Benatallah, ?A Petri Net-based Model for Web Service Composition?, Fourteenth Australasian Database Conference \(ADC2003 CRPIT, Vol. 17, pp. 191-200, 2003 9] S. Hinz, K. Schmidt, and C. Stahl, ?Transforming BPEL to Petri Nets?, BPM 2005, LNCS 3649, pp. 220?235, Springer-Verlag, 2005 10] H. Kang, X.L. Yang, and S.M. Yuan, ?Modeling and verification of Web Services Composition based on CPN 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing-Workshops, pp. 613-617, 2007 11] H.M. Kim, A. Sengupta, and J. Evermann, "MOQ: Web Services Ontologies for QOS and General Quality EvaluaFigure 6. XML net for Web service selection Figure 7. Filter Schema for QoS-aware WS selection owl:Ontology owl:Class rdfs:subClassOf owl:Restriction rdf :resource : "\\s+#costUSCent owl:onProperty owl:maxCardinality   rdf:RDF Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 tions", European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2005 12] S. Klink, Y. Li, and A. Oberweis, "INCOME2010 - a Toolset for Developing Process-Oriented Information Systems Based on Petri Nets", International Workshop on Petri Nets Tools and APplications \(PNTAP 2008, associated to SIMUTools 2008 March 2008 13] O. Kluge, ?Petri nets as a Semantic Model for message Sequence Chart Specifications?, proceedings of INT 2002 pp. 138-147, 2002 14] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, ?Inter-Organizational Business Process Management with XML Nets?, H. Ehrig, W Reisig, G. Rozenberg, H. Weber \(Eds gy for Communication Based Systems, LNCS 2472, pp. 243263, Springer-Verlag, 2003 15] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, "Workflow Services: A Petri Net-Based Approach to Web Services", Int. Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Pa 


Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Paphos/Cyprus, November 2004 16] L. Lin and I.B. Arpinar, ?Discovery of Semantic Relations between Web Services?, IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS?06 17] Q. Lin, J.D. Ge, H. Hu, and J. Lu, ?An Approach to Model Cross-Organizational Processes using Object Petri net?, 2007 IEEE Congress on Services \(SERVICES 2007 pp. 146-152, July 2007 18] H. Ludwig, A. Keller, A. Dan, R. P. King, and R Franck, ?Web Service level Agreement \(WSLA Specification version 1.0?, IBM, 2003 19] N. Lohmann, P. Massuthe, C. Stahl, and D. Weinberg Analyzing Interacting BPEL Process?, S. Dustdar, J.L. Fiadeiro, and A. Sheth \(Eds 32, Springer-Verlag, 2006 20] S.A. Mcllraith and T.C. Son, ?Adapting Golog for Composition of Semantic Web Services?, 8th International Conference on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning KR2002 21] S.A. Mcllraith, T.C. Son, and H.L. Zeng, ?Semantic Web Services?, IEEE Intelligent Systems, March/April 2001 16\(2 22] N. Milanovic and M. Malek, ?Current Solution for Web Service Composition?, IEEE Internet Computing, NovemberDecember 2004 23] S. Narayanan and S.A. Mcllraith, ?Simulation, Verification and Automated Composition of Web Service?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 24] The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards \(OASIS Process Execution Language Version 2.0?, 11 April, 2007 http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsbpel/2.0/wsbpel-v2.0.pdf 25] S.R. Ponnekanti and A. Fox, ?SWORD: a Developer Toolkit for Web Services Composition?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 26] Z.Z. Qian, S.L. Lu, and L. Xie, ?Colored Petri Nets Based Automatic Service Composition?, 2007 IEEE AsiaPacific Services Computing Conference, pp. 431-438, 2007 27] C. Ouyang, E. Verbeek, W.M.P. van der Aalst, S. Breutel1, M. Dumas1, and A.H.M. ter Hofstede1, ?Formal semantics and analysis of Control flow in WS-BPEL?, BPM center Technical Report, BPM-05-15, 2005 28] J.H. Rao and X.M. Su, ?A Survey of Automated Web Service Composition Methods?, SWSWPC 2004, LNCS 3387, pp. 43-54, Springer-Verlag, 2005 29] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Application of Linear Logic to Web Service Composition?, 1st International Conference on Web Services, Las Vegas, USA, June 2003 30] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Logic-based Web Services Composition: From Service Description to Process Model?, 2004 International Conference on Web Services, pp.446-453, San Diego, USA, July 2004 31] M. Sgroi, A. Kondratyev, Y. Watanabe, L. Lavagno and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, ?Synthesis of Petri Nets from Message Sequence Charts Specifications for Protocol Design?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp. 193-199, 2004 32] W.M.P. Van der Aalst, "The Application of Petri Nets to Workflow Management", The Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 8\(1 33] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C Semantic Markup for Web Services?, 22 November, 2004 http://www.w3.org/Submission/OWL-S 34] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vices Choreography Description Language Version 1.0?, 17 December, 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-ws-cdl10-20041217 35] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Choreography Interface \(WSCI 


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





