html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Towards a  Design Theory for Collaborative Technologies Habermasian Analysis of Comprehensive Urban Planning  Jim Sheffield  Department of Information Systems and Operations Management University of Auckland Private Bag 92019 Auckland New Zealand Phone \(64-9 64-9 j.sheffield@auckland.ac.nz   Abstract  This article proposes a design theory for collaborative technologies based on pragmatism and multiple discourses \(Habermas 1984; Schultze and Leidner, 2002 explored via empirical data gathered in the context of an intervention enabled by Group Support Systems GSS urban planning. During the study representatives of the regional council and territorial authorities meet to evaluate three scenarios prepared over a sevenyear period. Qualitative measures were obtained of the degree of confusion \(lack of understanding conflict \(lack of trust and participant performance and satisfaction with electronic discourse. The focus question is ?Do electronic discourses enhance participant?s understanding and trust in scenario planning  Keywords: Collaboration systems, emergent knowledge processes, governance, strategic urban planning, critical interpretive case study   1. Introduction  This paper applies ideas about pragmatism [1, 2 and systemic intervention [3, 4] to a practical problem. The dual focus on concepts and practical experience is in the tradition of enquiring systems 5], problem structuring methods [6], systems thinking [7, 8], and critical pragmatism [9]. The purpose is to identify the concepts of rationality associated with different discourses [10], and to propose a discourse-based design theory for collaborative technologies [11]. The design principles directly address the issues of governance and power relations, and accept that elements of dissensus confusion and conflict - are integral to collaboration The resulting theory complements Information Systems design theories [12, 13], and the engineering of collaboration in organizations [14], that more directly address issues associated with the IT artifact The practical problem is as follows. In the urban region of Auckland, New Zealand, decision making is embedded in an historical context. Decision making requires communication on complex issues among a large number of local government organizations. Actions in the Auckland region are governed by elements of national government, the regional council, four cities and three districts. These authorities are collectively responsible for some 64 organizations. The public participates in governance by electing officials, working with one of 31 community boards, and paying taxes. While the purpose of the system is collaborative, the political funding, and operational complexities reflect 


funding, and operational complexities reflect confusion \(lack of understanding lack of trust single decision maker and the complexity of the substantive factual issues. Region-wide or comprehensive urban planning involves a critical evaluation of conflicting claims about intertwined criteria related to transportation, housing, workplaces amenities, etc, by individuals primarily situated within a single organization. The recursive complexity of inter-twined conceptual and empirical issues makes an a priori analytical solution unlikely Conflict arises from the complexity of the power relationships among decision makers. Local Government legislation confers powers on the regional council to plan for the region ?in consultation with? territorial authorities. Each authority maintains a planning office responsible to its own council. Each is empowered to look after the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE Table 1. Research paradigms. Adapted from [21  Research Paradigm Positivist Interpretivist Critical Pluralist Perspective of researcher Stands aloof and apart from stakeholders and subject matter so that decisions can be made objectively Becomes more fully involved with stakeholders and subject matter to achieve a good understanding of the stakeholders? world Active involvement with stakeholders to surface illusions and to implement alternatives that will improve their world Goodness or quality criteria Conventional bench marks of ?rigor?; internal amp; external validity reliability Trustworthiness and authenticity; Fit with social norms and values Historical situatedness; erosion of ignorance and misapprehensions sincerity of beliefs; action stimulus Validity claim Objective truth of evidence base Rightness of community norms Truthfulness in self-understanding and sincerity in expression  interests of its own constituency and expects the comprehensive urban plan to serve its own interest Regional planning is informed not by a search for an analytical hierarchy but by communication to resolve tensions between emergent competitive and cooperative goals of stakeholders. Collaborative planning occurs from time to time under the auspices of the regional council, the mayoral forum, and the regional growth forum. Planning becomes the exercise of technical skills on behalf of constituencies 


exercise of technical skills on behalf of constituencies with a history of confusion, conflict, and the exercise of power Over the last three or four decades a combination of limited resources and population growth has exacerbated conflict, especially about transportation issues. Trip times are increasing and transportation costs, which include lost productivity, are increasing While transportation modelling is used extensively issues of governance, funding, and collaborative planning remain. Organizational roles include control, participation, planning, funding, and operational /management. Each organization manages a part of the transport system but none is responsible for the system as a whole. In the absence of a single governance structure, the deliberations in the regional growth forum are likely to remain conflicted [15, 16  1.1 Collaborative technologies  The role of collaborative technologies in planning meetings of the regional growth forum is unclear Group Support Systems \(GSS advantages but, in this case, the design of decision making processes must directly address challenges to governance, and inter-organizational conflict. For example, if GSS technology is employed by the regional growth forum, whose interpretation of the ends served by the electronically-supported meeting should determine success? Who is the client? [17 What roles and responsibilities will be recognised 18] Is it sensible to expect powerful stakeholders to use collaborative technologies when it introduces unwanted accountability and makes their exercise of power more difficult? [10, 19] By what concept\(s rationality or validity should the facilitator be held accountable for a positive outcome? [20] Concepts to guide a systemic intervention, and illuminate the complexity of the issues in which these decision makers are embedded, must draw on multiple perspectives [21] \(Table 1 While [12-14, 22] offer design support and theoretical foundations from a positivist perspective and [23-27] offer design support and theoretical foundations from an interpretive perspective, we see the need to approach situations with a significant degree of dissensus from a Habermasian perspective 11, 28, 29]. We hope that a focus on Habermasian validity claims will bridge the gap between reflective theoretical applications of critical perspectives and their practical application as facets of a design theory for collaborative technologies, such as group decision support. This aim is also supported by [1-9, 30-37 This research provides a retrospective account of a discourse theory that is aligned with the author?s intuitive design, implementation, and evaluation of an electronically-supported decision-making meeting for the regional growth forum. The report is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the discourse theory Section 3 describes methodology. Findings from the periods before, during and after the meeting are reported in sections 4, 5, and 6, respectively  2. Discourse theory  Habermas, and pragmatism in general, are key sources of theory for regional planners, especially those concerned with personal experience Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 collaborative techniques, institutional practice, and 


collaborative techniques, institutional practice, and decision making [38-41]. This section develops a practice-oriented architecture for Habermasian discourses and operationalizes the resulting theory for use in scenario planning  2.1 Habermasian discourses  Outhwaite \(1996, p.12  central idea in Habermas? Theory of Communicative Action is remarkably simple. It is that every standard use of language to make statements involves certain presuppositions \(claims to validity speaker says is true, that it is sincerely meant, and that it is normatively appropriate. Habermas gives the example of a professor asking a seminar participant to fetch a glass of water. The participant may question three types of validity: 1. Factual presupposition or objective truth that there is water available \(?Is there water? Where is the water The normative appropriateness or rightness of such a request. \(?Do you think we are in a restaurant The professor?s sincerity or truthfulness in asking for it \(?Are you kidding evaluates three perspectives on knowledge Technical Perspective. The least inclusive, lowest or most embedded level is the world of external nature i.e., how it is, the technical world of material fact that is the totality of all entities about which objectively true statements are possible, or could be bought about by purposeful intervention. The mode of existence is objectivity. The mode of access is observation. The mode of validation is objective truth Interpersonal perspective. The middle level is our world of society, i.e., what we say, the social world that is the totality of interpersonal relations legitimately regulated by contextual expectations or norms. The mode of existence is inter-subjectivity The mode of access is participation. The mode of validation is rightness Personal perspective. The most inclusive, holistic or highest \(i.e., most aspirational internal nature, i.e., why I feel, the personal or subjective world that is the totality of the experiences to which the speaker or actor has privileged access The mode of existence is subjectivity. The mode of access is experience. The mode of validation is truthfulness Habermasian discourses provide a standard of excellence for the reflective communicative action undertaken by two or more stakeholders in order to stabilize mutual understanding. Conflict among different humans \(or within one reflective, yet conflicted, human testing, and integrating discourses on three perspectives on knowledge. For each knowledge perspective, prospective and retrospective reflections constitute separate discourses that surface collaborative intentions and outcomes, respectively Group decision is seen as a collaborative process that seeks ?rightness? in the fit \(coherence evolving problem representation and solution hierarchies, each of which is defined by relations between personal values, interpersonal objectives and technical decision criteria [43]. Integration may be effected by discourses on intentions that proceed from the personal to the technical, followed by discourses on outcomes that proceed from the technical to the personal Each pair of discourses \(intention and outcome the same knowledge perspective evaluates intentionality \(rationality 


intentionality \(rationality claim. Habermasian inquiry develops and tests the coherence among intentions and outcomes via the gold standard of ideal speech i.e., social actors emergent claims for valid technical, interpersonal and personal knowledge. The standard of excellence can stated as follows: personal commitment \(validated by truthfulness validated by rightness validated by objective truth Figure 1  Technical Perspective How it is 1. Objectivity 2. Observation 3. Objective truth \(is Interpersonal Perspective What we say 1. Inter-subjectivity 2. Participation 3. Rightness \(ought Legend Key words 1. Mode of existence 2. Mode of access 3. Mode of validation Personal Perspective Why I feel 1. Subjectivity 2. Experience 3. Truthfulness \(sincerity Intentions Outcomes   Figure 1 Architecture of Habermasian discourses  2.4. Operationalization for comprehensive urban planning  Habermasian discourses and architecture may serve as the archetype for mid-range theories useful in areas that require a critical appreciation of conflicting perspectives. Strategic planning involves the surfacing and testing of assumptions from multiple perspectives [44]. In dialectical terms a pair of perspectives is seen as an Hegelian thesis and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 antithesis [45]. Ignorance is reduced via active engagement with the confusion and conflict that is required to reconcile opposing perspectives and give birth to a new, more current synthesis. A common application of GSS technology is the support of groups engaged in strategic planning activities [46 47]. Strategic planning is complex and lacks wellarticulated theoretical assumptions [48] and guidelines for practice [49]. Therefore a mid-range operational model was created for the purpose of developing and testing the coherence between intentions and outcomes via scenarios developed in the context of strategic planning \(Figure 2  6. Enactment Goal: Expressions of degrees of commitment to action by individuals and project groups 


1. Envisioning Goal: Expression of concerns and issues motivating each stakeholder Personal commitment validated by truthfulness 2. Objective setting Goal: Obtain consensus on smart 5. Evaluate alternative scenarios Goal: Obtain consensus on the best  performing scenario an interpersonal consensus \(validated by rightness for technical excellence \(validated by objective truth 4 Generate alternative scenarios  Goal: Establish welldefined packages of policy options and the criteria for choosing among them 3. Generating options for mutual gain Goal: Surface many different possible actions to achieve objectives Intentions OutcomesValidity Claims  Figure 2 Architecture of strategic scenario planning  3. Methodology  This section describes the methodology by which empirical evidence is generated. The focus question is ?Do electronic discourses enhance participant?s trust and understanding in scenario planning Because of the complexity of the issues, and the importance of power relations, and the emergent nature of their interactions, this question will be difficult to measure with precision. A non-positivist method of inquiry is adopted that draws on elements of pragmatism [1, 2], Churchmanian enquiring systems [5], Hegelian dialectic [45], and Habermas?s theory of communicative action [11]. In information systems research, Habermas is closely associated with reflective research of a theoretical nature [50 Table 2 employed in a practical manner to reduce confusion and conflict about existentially real decisions made in complex institutional settings. The research aims to apply the architectural frameworks developed in section 2 in a practical way to a complex decision made by the regional growth forum. The methodological findings are intended to contribute to the integration of all four quadrants in Table 2  Table 2. A classification of 15 critical social theory information systems research papers  Decisionistic Reflective Theoretical 2 11 Practical 1 1 The aim is to describe the general nature of the phenomena observed and to interpret actions, events and consequences. The purpose of the methodology is to identify the evolution of validity claims through the pre-meeting, meeting, and post-meeting phases of 


the pre-meeting, meeting, and post-meeting phases of decision making. Data is gathered before, during, and after an electronically-supported meeting. In the focal meeting evidence is also sought on participants satisfaction with electronic discourse. The design of the GSS-enabled meeting reflects the following principles of Habermasian electronic discourse Technical Perspective. Are claims to objective truth presented via briefs by technical experts? Are these critically examined and documented? Is the procedure for evaluating the evidence validated by a willingness to adopt a cognitive, objectivating attitude towards the facts Interpersonal Perspective. Are claims to rightness enacted via the inclusion of all those who are legitimately entitled to be represented? Is the procedure for evaluating the evidence validated by full participation in a debate conducted according to the professional norms of participants Personal Perspective. Are claims to truthfulness expressive of participants? subjectivity? Are periods of silence provided as an aid to ethical selfreflection? Are participant?s aspirations unconstrained by technical issues and unrestrained by the interpersonal context Coherence. Assuming that emergent claims for valid technical, interpersonal and personal knowledge are established, are they coherent? Do apparent contradictions \(thesis and antithesis precursors to an Hegelian synthesis Overall Success. Does Habermasian electronic discourse lead to overall success of the meeting Success is conceptualized in Churchmanian terms as a meeting that creates the capability of choosing the right means for one?s desired ends. This requires participants to develop and integrate perspectives from generic roles that Churchman terms designer decision maker and client [5]. More specifically success is indicated by insight leading to a consensus model that provides decision makers with a rationale for action Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 Evidence on the evolution of validity claims requires a study that is sensitive to the historical context. The data reported is part of a larger study that is a modified historical analysis. This report focuses on data collected in the key period, that is the pre-meeting, meeting and post-meeting phases of the focal electronically-supported meeting. Sources include: notes on 50 hours of meetings and phone conversations with staff and consultants from a regional planning authority; direct observations and audio and video records of the focal eight-hour GSSsupported meeting; in-depth study of the documented inputs \(i.e. the briefing papers i.e. the electronic transcript participants gathered at the end of the meeting in both free-text and questionnaire form; in-depth study of the report of the strategic evaluation of growth options subsequently published by the regional planning authority [51 The focal meeting is sponsored by mayors as part of the regional growth forum. The purpose of the meeting is the strategic evaluation of a comprehensive 30-year plan for the Auckland region This plan, known as the Auckland Strategic Planning Model, had been constructed over a seven-year period. It developed three scenarios for an increase in population from 1m to 1.5m. Consolidation drives scenario one. More controls, particularly environmental controls, are imposed to limit the 


environmental controls, are imposed to limit the spread of population into rural areas. The result is a higher population density and increased use of passenger transportation \(buses, light rail drives scenario three. Planning controls are relaxed allowing the spread of population into rural areas The result is lower population density and increased use of private transport \(cars, freeways two is an amalgam of the more desirable attributes that emerge from the development of scenarios one and three. \(Table 3  Table 3. Evaluation criteria and scenarios  Evaluation Criteria Scenario One  Consolidation   Scenario Three  Expansion   A. $Cost B. Amenity &amp landscape C. Housing choice D. Access and Transportation E. Water Quality More environmental etc, planning controls Higher density; More passenger transportation   \(buses light rail Less environmental etc, planning controls Lower density; More private transport \(cars freeways  4. Before the meeting  The database of evidence gathered in the premeeting phase revealed that participants in the focal strategic planning meeting were there to represent seven territorial authorities \(four cities and three districts ARC Figures 1 and 2 responsible for advising his/her own \(elected council. In Churchman?s inquiring system, each participant is primarily a designer of an urban area for which the elected council is the decision maker 5]. Each territorial authority constituted a part of the whole of the Auckland region. The issues associated with embedding ?a part? of an urban region in ?the whole? are complex. Participants recognized the difficulties in achieving the goals of their respective councils and engaging in consultations about comprehensive region-wide plans with planners from other councils. Perceptions of costs and benefits varied with the allegiance of the participant and the history of his or her interactions. The chief planner for the ARC advised that most participants have been involved in prior consultations marked to some degree by confusion and conflict. As the day of the focal electronically-supported meeting approached it became apparent that considerable difficulties were being experienced by ARC planners, and that these were directly related to technical, interpersonal and personal issues. Details omitted Summary. In summary, data gathered before the 


Summary. In summary, data gathered before the focal electronically-supported meeting reveals major problems. The empirical evidence is that the premeeting phase was fraught with technical interpersonal and personal problems. There was little or no alignment between personal commitments consensus and technical excellence. While some stakeholders may have preferred a more tractable problem, the evidence is that they were faced with a situation in which key aspects of the problem situation \(intentions solution \(outcomes  holistically as themes in discourse at three levels technical, interpersonal and personal. The Habermasian analysis suggests that the observed levels of guarantors \(truth, rightness and truthfulness immediately before the focal electronically-supported meeting were low  5. During the meeting  The facilitator of the focal GSS-supported meeting chose to develop trust and mutual understanding by applying the concepts in the midrange operational model for strategic scenario planning. He envisaged the purpose of the meeting as developing and testing the coherence among the validity claims illustrated in Figure 3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 The first part of the meeting focused on expression of concerns and issues motivating each stakeholder. The last part of the meeting focused on expressions of degrees of commitment to action, for and against, any or all of the scenarios. More than half of the agenda items were devoted to electronically-supported discourse about a decision matrix developed in the weeks leading up to the meeting. Three strategic scenarios \(columns evaluated against five classes of criteria \(rows cost, amenity and landscape, housing choice, access and transportation, and water quality \(Table 3 Churchman?s inquiring system, the urban planners are characterized as system designers who evaluate the decision matrix to provide insight about measures of performance [5]. The consensus of system designers on a preferred option provides decision makers \(the councils that employ the planners rationale for action. Each row of the decision matrix was the subject of a 50-minute session using the GroupSystems Topic Commenter tool [28]. This 50minute session included speech and the ordering by each participant of his or her preference for each scenario [52   Figure 3. Validity claims to be evaluated  Twenty one people attended the meeting excluding the facilitator. Sixteen had voting rights Ten of these were planning executives from the four cities and three districts in the urban area; six were ARC planners and consultants. The remaining five participants were the ARC planners responsible for the seven-year planning cycle. Data gathered on participants? satisfaction with electronic discourses as a means of reducing conflict and confusion about preferences for scenario options are presented in the following subsection  5.1. Participant satisfaction with electronic discourse 


discourse  Participant satisfaction with electronic discourses was solicited anonymously via structured and unstructured methods and the results compared with observational data. The electronic meeting technology used in the focal meeting provided two key functions important to reducing conflict and confusion. Firstly, the software provided automatic recording \(?group memory for idea generation \(divergent thinking separated in time from procedures for information analysis \(convergent thinking technology provided anonymity that reduced the anxiety about surfacing sensitive issues. This enabled a separate focus on interlocked issues about relationships \(trust understanding two-by-two analysis produced four separate measures of satisfaction with electronic discourse \(Figure 4    Figure 4. Participants satisfaction with electronic discourse \(1=low satisfaction 7=high satisfaction  A structured survey instrument was employed that includes scales for these four measures. The instrument, which has previously been used to evaluate electronically-supported strategic planning in the presence of inter-organizational conflict, was administered to all participants at the end of the electronically-supported meeting. The architecture of the instrument consists of rows and columns that identify process steps linked in a distinctive V-shape similar to that in Figures 1-4 [53]. Participants satisfaction with electronic discourse averaged 6.0 on a 7 point scale \(1 = Low satisfaction, 7 = High satisfaction anonymously from participants by means of the GroupSystems Topic Commenter tool. The responses were overwhelmingly positive. Participants remarked that the meeting generated goodwill and momentum Many people expressed surprise that the technology existed and stated that the meeting outcomes would not have been possible without electronic support Observational data in the form of a video record showed that electronic discourses enabled Focus  Relationship issues Reduced conflict Increased trust  Substantive issues Reduced confusion Increased understanding Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 participants to interact in silence for four hours in the eight-hour meeting. The atmosphere was one of intense concentration, as though participants were committed to the success of a difficult cognitive challenge. It was observed that the resulting text received intense scrutiny during the meeting In summary, participants? satisfaction with electronic discourses and observations during and after the meeting, support the value of the electronic discourse. Yet such conventional measures of GSS instrumentality do not directly address the purpose of the meeting. The purpose of the focal electronically 


supported meeting is to develop and test the coherence among the validity claims illustrated in Figure 3. The following subsections critiques the success of the meeting through the theoretical lens of Habermasian inquiry  5.2. Evaluation of claims to objective truth  Participants arrived at the meeting carrying extensive briefing documents that they had received in the mail. The video record showed that the initial expression of personal views was heated. It took some time before most participants were ready for mutual problem solving. Participants then examined the briefing documents in detail as they worked through each row \(criterion Each participant was a senior planning generalist and this part of the meeting provided the occasion for the exercise of technical skill. Through the use of the GroupSystems Topic Commenter tool participants produced ten pages of text on each criterion. This text or ?frozen discourse? includes key issues that were prioritized via a weighted voting procedure [54  Table 4. Evaluation of claims to truth  Criterion Prioritized key issues A:  $Cost  1st  Transport dominates the issue \(44 points 2nd  Little difference ? are options extreme enough? \(27 pts B:  Amenity and landscape values Author?s note: All except 15th  made no explicit mention of options \(233 points 15th  Greater choice, diversity,  variety in Option 1 \(7 points C: Housing choice No explicit mention of options in any of the key issues \(240 points D: Access and transportation 1st  Stuff all difference among options \(40 pts 2nd  Are we wasting money on public transport without major density increases 25 points E: Water quality  1st  Any option has significant sediment impacts \(44 points 7th  Lack of difference among options \(14 pts  Table 4 illustrates the priority and nature of some key issues and the number of votes each received Participants cast a total of 240 votes for each criterion. The issues were expressed in a manner that is exploratory and descriptive \(emergent evaluative. For example, the issue of the extent to which population density must increase to make public transportation sufficiently viable is central to the choice between scenario one \(consolidation scenario three \(expansion year planning exercise that included extensive traffic modeling, the issue was raised as a question rather than as the evaluation of a factual proposition. No explicit mention of any of the scenario options was included in the top 14 key issues about criterion B amenity and landscape about criterion C \(housing choice the remaining three criteria \(cost, access and 


the remaining three criteria \(cost, access and transportation, and water quality information about which scenario option was preferred. The detailed investigation of the briefing documents produced a consensus that studies by technical experts had failed to find significant difference between the scenario options. This constitutes support for the following interpretation Decision Outcome: Under the norms of a cognitive, objectivating attitude towards the facts, the truth? is that all three scenario options are equal  5.3 Evaluation of claims to rightness  At the end of the discourse on a criterion, each participant privately recorded how well each scenario performed against that criterion. This is a more holistic measure than the key issues recorded in Table 4. Participants must interpret technical findings from the perspective of their own norms and values. Each scenario received a rating on a five-point ordinal scale from each voting participant. The aggregated ratings on each scenario were made accessible to each participant. The aggregate preference orderings for scenarios one and three are illustrated in Table 5  Table 5. Evaluation of Claims to Rightness  Performance on Criterion Scenario One Number who choose 0 Scenario Three Number who choose 0 A: $Cost   3     5     6     2     0    0     2     3     6     5 B: Amenity and landscape values 4     7     3     1     1    3     1     3     4     5 C: Housing choice   1     7     3     3     2    5     7     2     1     1 D: Access and transportation 5     7     3     1     0    1     3     2     5     5 E: Coastal water quality 5     1     4     4     2     0     1     2     3     10 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Modal values are underlined. On criterion C \(housing choice equally. On the remaining four criteria, scenario one performed distinctly better than scenario three Scenario two \(which had been constructed as an amalgam of scenarios one and three between those for scenarios one and three. All three scenarios had been developed through a consultative process over a seven-year period. This coupled with observations from the pre-meeting and meeting phases constitutes support for the following interpretation Decision Outcome: Under the norms of established legitimate inter-personal relationships scenario one is more ?right? for us than scenario two or three  5.4. Evaluation of Claims to Truthfulness  The discourses on truth and rightness were framed by the briefing documents. After the time allocated for these discourses was exhausted participants were encouraged to express more personal judgments 


encouraged to express more personal judgments about the three scenarios. Electronic meeting technology supported electronic discourse on the question ?What is it like to live in Auckland under scenarios 1, 2 and 3?? In Churchman?s inquiring system, participants were being asked to drop their usual role of designer and adopt the role of client [5 The goal was disclosure of speaker?s subjectivity unconstrained by the \(technical model and unrestrained by the interpersonal context The strategy was to get each individual to write a personalized account of what it would be like to live in Auckland 30 years hence under each of options 1 2 and 3, then to read the account of others to identify the most valuable visions. The procedure was a 60minute silent envisioning exercise in which each account is identified only by a code. Anonymity was almost complete  Table 6. Evaluation of claims to truthfulness  Personal preferences Scenario One Scenario Two Scenario Three Number of participants strongly in favor of 14 0 2 Number of participants indifferent to 0  16 0 Number of participants   willing to work against 2  0 14  The video record shows that participants developed their personalized accounts with a silence and intensity reminiscent of students in a final exam Some participants insisted on working on their accounts beyond the time allocated. Their selfabsorbed silence contrasted strongly with the shouted social consensus that accompanied the reading of the account of others. The most valued visions of what it would be like to live in Auckland 30 years hence showed intense personal support for scenario one, a lack of engagement with scenario two, and a willingness to work against scenario three. \(Table 6  Decision Outcome: Under the norms of disclosure of speakers? subjectivity, 14 of the 16 participants will, in all truthfulness, only support Option 1  5.5. Summary  The positive results obtained from the meeting are in strong contrast to the confusion and conflict that existed at the end of the pre-meeting phase Participants? perceptions and performance as a result of the electronic meeting technology were positive Participants were satisfied. These findings are similar to those in the meta-analysis reported in [28]. While some participants were reluctant to attend the focal meeting, and expressed negative views at the beginning of the meeting, all participants provided positive evaluations at the end of the meeting. The functionality of the GSS software was supportive of an overall positive result. Participation by all participants was intense. By the end of the meeting electronic discourse produced 80 pages of text 


electronic discourse produced 80 pages of text Intense participation in four key aspects of electronic discourse resulted in each of the three decision outcomes being documented and coherently linked to the relevant underlying validity claim. The data gathered during the focal meeting support the claim that the combination of Habermasian inquiry and electronic discourse were successful in reducing conflict and confusion The empirical evidence is that each of the knowledge perspectives \(technical, interpersonal and personal capturing phenomena important to the success of the focal electronically-supported meeting. The focal electronically-supported meeting enabled a critical examination of claims to valid technical interpersonal and personal knowledge. Observations confirm that the decision outcome in each knowledge world was grounded in the corresponding validity claim - truth, rightness or truthfulness. It is not clear however, that the electronically-supported meeting integrated the technical, inter-personal, and personal perspectives into a consensus model that provides the rationale for action  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 6. After the meeting  A ?valid? and ?coherent? evaluation of the three scenario plans is desired. The meeting succeeded in documenting technical, interpersonal and personal decision outcomes and grounded in the relevant underlying validity claim. We have yet to consider the degree of coherence among the three perspectives. Participants found no difference between the scenarios on the basis of technical knowledge. Moderate claims in favor of scenario one were made based on interpersonal knowledge. Strong claims in favor of scenario one were made based on personal knowledge The degree of coherence among the decision outcomes at different levels is poor. There is a major discrepancy in preferences at various stages of the decision process. The 80-page report generated by electronic meeting technology \(from which the data in tables 4, 5 and 6 are extracted participants immediately after the meeting. The introductory section of the report highlighted the fact that the participants were strongly supportive of an option that lacked factual support. The report became subject to intense scrutiny. Regional planners met repeatedly among themselves about the report and consulted other meeting participants. Support grew for the interpretation that the information in Table 4 should be taken at face value ? scenario options were not extreme enough. In Hegelian terms, the dialectical logic \(synthesis initially lost on the regional planners because they were so firmly wedded to their decision framework thesis recognizing that the framework itself was flawed antithesis subsequently undertaken with more extreme variations on scenarios one and three \(based on a 100% increase in population for scenario one at technical, interpersonal and personal levels  6.1. Discussion  Support has been found that framing the 


Support has been found that framing the electronic discourses as an instance Habermasian inquiry reduces participants? conflict and confusion about a comprehensive urban plan and preferences for three scenario options. The meeting enabled bounds to rationality to be loosened by active testing of each participant?s knowledge against other points of view. Intense scrutiny of the meeting report produced a significant increase in the coherence of the belief structure of meeting participants Specifically, the apparent contradictions in preferences surfaced at different stages of the meeting served as a precursor to a Hegelian synthesis. Participants? insight that the model was flawed led to a consensus model that provided decision makers with a rationale for action. Using the definition of success in Churchman?s inquiring system \(?insight leading to a consensus model that provides decision makers with a rationale for action  6.2. Conclusion  The paper applies Habermasian inquiry to electronic discourse in group decision, and the strategic evaluation of a comprehensive urban plan In this case at least, the combination of Habermasian inquiry and electronic discourse led to the overall success of a key meeting. The learning process did not produce a coherent decision based on the initial parameters in the planning model, but an appreciation of the gap between the model and the purpose for which it had been developed. After the meeting consensus developed around a new urban planning model synthesized from suggestions by meeting participants. Ten years after the electronicallysupported meeting, the essence of the decision in favor of scenario one remains the accepted plan for the future of the Auckland region In totality, the empirical evidence suggests that the combination of Habermasian inquiry and electronic discourses enhance participant?s trust and understanding in scenario planning. Seen as an instance of Habermasian inquiry, the benefits of the electronically-supported meeting were three-fold Technical perspective. Support for the development and documentation of validity claims about objective truth, rightness and personal truthfulness or sincerity, and the degree of coherence among them Interpersonal perspective. Support for discourse that interweaves evidence \(reflections and experiences, decisions and actions, theories and interpretations, individual feelings and objective facts supportive evaluative frames Personal perspective. Support for the psychological safety? and ?trust? needed for direct and unreserved expressions of multiple, conflicting individual perspectives This retrospective inquiry was initially born out of a personal concern that the subjectivist story-telling aspects of the design of the GSS session could not be justified, and that harm may result. This appears not to be the case. Retrospective inquiry has enabled this GSS facilitator to find that his intuitions about Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 session design are shared by others. Several lessons have been learned. Firstly, in theory and in practice creativity and conflict are intertwined. An element of self expression via story-telling may get us closer to 


the truth than available empirical data. Secondly, in practice, individual and group knowledge is mediated and situated, provisional and pragmatic, aspirational and contested. In this case at least, a broad but robust theory of electronic discourse proved useful in teasing out intertwined technical, interpersonal and personal issues. Thirdly, GSS technology has a raw power that the facilitator may direct via the application of this theory. The author has found the architecture of Habermasian discourses a useful archetype for mid-range operational models in various domains. Finally, the methodology of a critical interpretive case study is recommended for critiquing the support provided by collaborative technologies in situations involving dissensus. Such an approach is required to study why participants are inauthentic in their participation in collaboration technologies, or avoid them completely as communication closes down in response to unresolved conflict. The application of ideas about pragmatism and systemic intervention provides a practice model that extends the practical and decisionistic applications of critical research in information systems, and places positivist technology-based theories of collaborative design in the context of power relations In practice, interaction on problematic issues is subject to confusion and conflict. However these are the experiences required to disambiguate a mess of facts, norms and feelings. Seen from a Hegelian perspective, the power of a design theory for collaborative technologies based on Habermasian discourses, lies not in achievement of enlightenment but in appreciation of the nature of ignorance, and the practical consequences of belief  7. References  1] Metcalfe, M. ?Pragmatic Inquiry,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 59, 2008, 1091-1099 2] Omerod, R. ?The History and Ideas of Pragmatism Journal of the Operational Research Society 57, 2006, 892909 3] Boyd, A., Geerling, T., Gregory, W.J., Kagan, C Midgley, G., Murray, P., Walsh, M.P  Systemic Evaluation: A Participative, Multi-Method Approach   Journal of the Operational Research Society 58, 2007 1306-1320 4] Midgley, G. Systemic Intervention: Philosophy Methodology, and Practice, Kluwer Academic / Plenum New York, 2000 5] Churchman, C.W. The Design of Inquiring Systems Basic Books, New York, 1971 6] Rosenhead, J., and Mingers, J., Editors  Rational Analysis For a Problematic World Revisited  John Wiley and Sons, Ltd, Chichester, 2001 7] Jackson, MC. ?Systems Thinking: Creative Holism For Managers.? John Wiley and Sons, Ltd, Chichester, 2003 8] Midgley, G., Editor. ?Systems Thinking?, Sage, London 2003 9] Ulrich, W  Philosophy For Professionals: Towards Critical Pragmatism  Viewpoint, Journal of the Operational Research Society 58, 2007, 1109-1113 10] Schultze, U., Leidner, D.E. ?Studying Knowledge Management in Information Systems Research: Discourses and Theoretical Assumptions,? MIS Quarterly 26\(3 213-242 11] Habermas, J. The Theory of Communicative Action Volume 1: Reason and the Rationalization of Society translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


