The information revolution has radically changed the way we make decisions and has expanded into mobile devices 
Abstract 
Nudging Through Technology Choice architectures and the mobile information revolution Thomas 1 A.M., Parkinson 1 J., Moore 2 P., Goodman 1 A., Xhafa 3 F. and Barolli 4 L 1 Wales Centre for Behaviour Change, University of Bangor, Bangor, UK 2 School of Computing, Birmingham City University, Birmingham, UK 3 Department of Software, Technical University of Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain 4 Department of Information and Communication Engineering. Fukuoka Institute of Technology, Japan 
capable of informing choices at the point at which they are made However, it is arguable whether the explosion of available information helps or hinders decision making, including in important domains such as healthcare and sustainability Improving on that is the domain of choice architecture, intended to provide decision-knowledge through understanding choiceimplications and so guiding actions in effective and ethical directions \(i.e. 'nudging'\. Social media has largely evolved as the significant means of choice architecture, but the question remains as to whether decisions based on it are truly effective and ethical, or attracted toward social norms that reinforce poor judgment. This paper explores those issues, including how 
technologies can be shaped to improve decision-making, and how academic models can be used to nudge toward improved norms 
I I NTRODUCTION Few would argue that modern life is full of decisions, many of which impact our health, our quality of life and even the future of Planet Earth. Opting for the most ethical and rational decisions is difficult, and often leads to a mismatch between what we say we should do, and what we actually do. This value-action gap’ has led to significant interest in 'nudging techniques \(see e.g. [1   Nu d g ing in this co nt ext is  o f t e n known as libertarian \(or soft\ paternalism: paternal in attempting to guide our choices, and libertarian in defending 
Keywords—component; Choice architecture, nudge technology, cloud systems, big data 
our freedom to make them, even defending our right to opt out if we wish [2  Th e l i b er t a r ia n as pe ct can  be s e en  to m edi at e  paternalism: use of 'strong graphics' and manipulation of feelings may be paternal, but can often lead to loss of choice 3 N u d g ing is pre d ic ated  o n  the assumption that choices are often made under circumstances of limited rationality and/or awareness, and can be guided through the way in which the possible choices are presented [4   It is n o t  th e r ef or e  a f o rm  of  subtle manipulation’, as manipulation is seldom subtle, and has the potential to alienate decision makers Therefore, nudging can be contrasted with regulatory routes to behaviour change: in healthcare it has been argued that nudging is not a universal solu 
tion, legislation being the preferential option [5 H o w e v e r  it h a s als o  be en s a i d t h at  regulation can cause negative attitudes toward issues it addresses, while conversely voluntary behaviour change can result in greater ownership [6  W hethe r e i ther vie w c a n b e  fully defended is a philosophical matter, but in terms of application of nudging to the world-wide-web it is likely that the multiplicity of choices, and the ethos of freedom and openness, is likely often to dictate an emphasis on behaviourinfluencing over law-making. Essentially, nudging is based on observations that decisions can be impulsive, irrational, and often based on limited, even lack ing, domain knowled  I t  therefore relies largely on choice-architecture in an attempt to 
signpost ethical and rational routes through important decisions 7  I t h a s  be en w i del y appl i e d i n  dom ai n s s u ch as h e al t h   8    agriculture [9  edu cati o n  1 0   t r an s p or t an d clim ate  ch an g e    It is  p o s s ible that it can  o f ten b e c o nsi d e r e d em p iri ca l in application, leading to the opinion that research is needed to establish causality and probability links between nudge and achieved behaviour change [1 S o also, its e ffica c y c a n be based on whether behaviour change occurs in those who should benefit most from its application \(e.g   For the purposes of this paper, technological-nudging can be defined as designing computer-systems that augment human decision-making through machine-knowledge and domainmatching, particularly through mobile-device interfaces. It is apparent that web-systems already contain aspects of interest 
such as expert knowledge websites, forums and ranking systems \(e.g. star-systems, 'like and '+1'\. However, there is limited evidence that these lead to improved behaviour rather than reinforcing established norm s \(a criticism which can also be applied to poorly-designed nudging [2 F or insta n c e despite the success of the Crow dMed website, it has been said that increased expert input would be beneficial [1   It  i s  therefore arguable whether web-systems nudge toward ethical and efficacious decisions, or simply cater for a lust to satisfy impulsive and irrational behaviour through 'closure'. The answer is important: libertariani sm should dictate our right to good' decisions, rather than simply decisions 'we can live 
with'. So, it is instructive to consider how technology can be designed around the principles of libertarian paternalism, and Figure 1 provides a conceptual model \(around which this paper is organised\. The human decision-making cloud system Section II\ represents curren t online systems, the opinions expert and otherwise\ providing the main information sources with mediation through, for instance, ranking systems The machine decision-making cloud system \(Section III\ is included as a fully-technological means of augmenting human decisions. In many ways this has partially been present since 
2013 Eighth International Conference on P2P, Parallel, Grid, Cloud and Internet Computing 978-0-7695-5094-7/13 $31.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/3PGCIC.2013.44 264 
2013 Eighth International Conference on P2P, Parallel, Grid, Cloud and Internet Computing 978-0-7695-5094-7/13 $31.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/3PGCIC.2013.44 255 
2013 Eighth International Conference on P2P, Parallel, Grid, Cloud and Internet Computing 978-0-7695-5094-7/13 $31.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/3PGCIC.2013.44 255 


ad-hoc 
the genesis of the web, however, much more can be done to facilitate use of data in decision making, especially given the advances in areas such as massively-parallel computing artificial intelligence and the cloud. Therefore, data-mining of big-data, development of new knowledge bases, and dynamic creation of data from sensor feeds, can be considered critical elements From an academic perspectiv e, academic research will be considered a useful source of domain-knowledge in this system. The role of \(academic\ education is considered also, in terms of domain-specific expertise creation, validation and use in knowledge-to-decision mapping, within an education cloud Section IV\ It is hypothesised that decision-makers will be influenced more in their behaviour by opinions provided by members of crowds who have not just demonstrable and relevant domain-expertise, but also validated success in its application. This obviously draws heavily on higher education models, but is extended to describe a model within which decision-makers can help fund specific knowledge creation and decision-helpers can benefit from incrementally small education collation: crowd-funded micro-education However, despite the seeming simplicity of Figure 1, it should be noted that the millions of users, together with a multitude of servers, sensors devices and connections, are likely to make it a highly complex system in full operation Therefore, ‘good’ decisions could be considered emergent properties in a ‘sea of chaos’, potentially forming strange attractors around which associated norms develop. This paper therefore attempts to discuss the technologies that could be used to shape the chaotic behaviour toward the values of libertarian paternalism. Finally, Section V will provide a brief discussion on how this paper fits into the concept of cyberspace: an important component in integration of choicearchitecture and nudging into daily digital-life Fig. 1. A conceptual system layout II M ACHINE K NOWLEDGE The internet has, since its genesis, been a platform to enhance decision making: as well as hyper-text as a form of knowledge-sharing, aspects such as expert systems have always been evident. That has increased in the decades since the world-wide-web was invented, with current trends in massively-parallel cloud computing providing scalable efficient and very high speed online computation. For example Figure 2 shows the Barcelona Supercomputing Center, which is among the most powerful in Europe. Such facilities allow us to transcend, in relative term s, a simple internet, providing opportunities for incorporating concepts such as ‘big-data data-mining and virtualization in to cloud content. Therefore the significant artificial-intelligence they provide can be considered an important opportunity for augmenting human decision-making As an example, humans already add to collective intelligence, providing, for example, crowd-sourced crime weather and traffic data for knowledge-building in the cloud which can also be combined with machine-knowledge from remote sensing. Despite the usefulness and ubiquity of the term, technically there is no ‘Cloud’, rather there are many clouds \(internal to organisational networks, and externally hosted\ providing scalability of computing resources and the potential \(through wireless networ ks\ for access to significant processing power using mobile de vices  T h e Clo u d c a n be differentiated from the internet through the lack of a need to understand the network, or individual servers, in depth from the outside: storage and processi ng being allocated, potentially on an and fragmentary basis, when required. It is that scalability that is of obvious importance to nudging for two reasons. Firstly, processing power need not be limited by the number of servers, their speed, nor the number of users 
265 
256 
256 


connected: it is scaled to meet demand. Secondly, through sharing of resources within the cl oud it is not necessary to have idle servers during low demand, reducing the environmental impact of computer-based nudging In terms of cloud-based knowledge, we may loosely categorise it into ‘known’ and ‘unknown’ knowledge. Known knowledge can be considered data and information already collated, which can be incorporated into knowledge-bases often just simple databases\ for access and querying on demand, including through context-matching, expert systems neural networks, artificial intelligence systems \(including robot-connected\ or simply through human reading of dynamic web-pages. Despite the obvious parallel to human knowledge, it could also include tacit knowledge, where codified into machine-understandable form. For instance behaviour data arising from tacit knowledge, once correlated with other apparently unrelated environmental data, can be used predictively. In so doing, tacit knowledge is effectively codified in the statis tical relationship betw een the two data sets However, the unknown knowledge illustrates a significant aspect of massively-parallel computing: data-mining of bigdata can provide important new knowledge \(and continual refinement and update of it\hat could be of si gnificant use to decision makers Fig. 2. Part of the Barcelona Supercomputing Center An obvious example is the dynamic context of stock prices but it is equally appropriate to behaviour based data \(e.g. in clinical-care monitoring\d potentially relating previous choices to current decision-scenarios. Given the significant amounts of data generated annually in academia, it is also apparent that research could be designed to facilitate output of its data in a form more read ily used by machine-knowledge systems. As examples, research can provide significant links between medical conditions and environment data [15  as w ell  as links between behaviour in De mentia patients and conditionprogression [1  I t  c o u l d  be a rg u e d t h at s u ch r e s e ar ch h a s  value to machine-learning systems in a wider context than simply academic use, implying that further research is needed into how the significant body of academic literature can be made available for wider use in nudge-related decision making A real-life example of knowledge building from data, and its use in supporting decision making, is the large virtual campus at the Open University of Catalonia. As well as academic and administrative activity it incorporates c.50,000 students, with tutors providing lectures for 30 degrees \(plus PhD and post-graduate programs\ resulting in over 600 official courses. It is completely virtualized with user interaction generating a huge amount \(c.10-15GB\f filtered and logged information daily. Processing and analyzing those data supports students and tutors, programme directors, managers and system developers. For instance, tutors can use it for monitoring and to identify dropout rates. Also, programme directors and managers can evaluate virtual class-performance and decide how to improve course/degree organization Developers can then use the data to identify usage and resource information \(e.g. server loads an d response times\ to optimize performance in the virtual campus A more recent aspect of cloud systems that must also be considered is the Internet-of-Things or, in modern contexts more correctly the Cloud-of-Thi ngs. The current interest in sensors and wireless-sensor networks seeks largely to create big-data’ from millions of in ternet-addressable \(i.e. IPv6 devices, attached to anything from industrial machinery to environmental sensors \(i.e. physical ’things’ whose data history is cloud accessible\. This allows for significant enhancements to machine-learning systems, often through data-mining of the big-data’ they create. It also allows improvements to personalized service provision, with an individual’s profile \(i.e context\pdated to reflect their prevailing state \(e.g. emotions or medical symptoms Therefore, the context-description moves from being simply an account of recent history, to a dynamic representation of prevailing state and behaviour. So, it becomes a more complex, richer and domain-specific representation \(see  for  a fuller  d i s c ussio n    Fo r insta n c e  it ha s b e e n shown  that electricity consumption, measured over short timescales can provide occupant-behaviour data in homes [18  w h ic h is of interest in many areas including clinical home-care and energy-management. It can be measured, to provide data for nudge-design, through smart-metering, but for most contexts more adequate data can easily be obtained through simple inexpensive, sensors \(e.g. [1   tha t ca n be incor por ated simply into wireless systems. Similarly, smart-phones can be used in many ways to inform behaviour and for intervention see e.g. [20 f o r a w i de r a n g e  of h e a lth ca r e  ex am ples   As an  example, Figure 3 shows prototype Android software that measures hand-trembling, in terms of time and frequency domains \(both domains being influenced by age and medical conditions Such apps have a wide range of uses. For instance trembling in Parkinsons’ Diseas e sufferers is known to be related to progression of the condition, but progression can also be linked to behaviour changes. Also, for use in medical crowd-systems, it could provide additional data to further refine diagnosis accuracy. But, as an aspect of estimating emotional-charge’ at the decision location \(which can be enhanced further, such as through building galvanic skin response measurement into devices: e.g. [2    it is lik ely t o  have other uses in nudging. Also, integration of the Cloud-ofThings and smart-phone technologies opens up many interesting areas of behaviour-sensing 
266 
257 
257 


Fig. 3. Prototype hand trembling Android app For instance, Figure 4 shows RFID tags \(compatible with NFC devices\ that can be written to and read by a wide range of smart-phones and tablets. Also shown is an inexpensive RFID reader that can be used w ith the tags, such as built into furniture, ornaments, consumer-goods and even clothing for wearable sensor systems. The sensor modules shown in Figure 4 include examples for inexpe nsive temperature, humidity acceleration, rotation and red-green-blue light measurements Many other inexpensive sensors are similarly available, and easily web-connected for mobile-device interfacing. However in terms of using mobile devices for decision-support, it is important to recognise that potential problems such as environmentally\ unsustainable power-consumption due to graphic-intensive apps [2 and co m p ulsive  o b s e ssive m o b i le device use [23 m u st b e  pr o p e r ly co nsi d e r e d  and m itiga t ed where possible Fig. 4. Sensors, RFID tags and an RFID reader III A UGMENTING H UMAN K NOWLEDGE As Hertwig and Erev [2  n o t e de cis i on s can be es pe cial ly  difficult when we have little expe rience on which to base them often because we underestimate the risks associated with decisions where there is a significant gap between experience and decision-description. We are also faced with difficult choices when time constraints limit objective analysis, or impulsivity overrides sensibi lity. In fact, the two may be linked, as we may feel pressured into a decision knowing that trying to analyse the options fu lly, in the available time, is futile. As an example, when buying goods on an auction site we can gain comfort and trust knowing that sellers have a 100% positive feedback \(even though feedback is given soon after purchase, and so does not reflect problems that may occur later\. However, if we choose a cheaper seller with lower feedback, such as 99.1% over 103362 items, we can calculate that over 9000 buyers were less than positive about their purchase. It is indicative of the problem that very few people would actually carry out this calculation in order to choose a seller Clicking on another link we can gain further information about recent feedback, and can calculate whether problems occurred within a time-window we consider acceptable. In order to fully risk assess \(i.e. taking into account probability and severity\e must then read all of the feedback and apply some form of qualitative analysis, deciding whether the risks outweigh the advantages: generally whether the goods will be as described, arrive in an acceptable timeframe, and that the cost is worth the risk over a more expensive seller with higher feedback. Also, all of the above must be undertaken by the buyer, as auction sites do not generally allow sorting of results based on a perceived-risk algorithm. Under these circumstances, it is apparent that current web-systems do not fully represent decision-descriptions, and do not minimise risk of the ‘wrong’ decision being made. Also, even though the majority of ‘feedback’ is provided by buyers and sellers \(i.e humans\ it is apparent that the model does not fully enhance our decision making, especially as it does not tell us whether the purchase is ethical, worthwhile, or necessary. Similarly liking’ a post, video or product can be argued to reinforce what is popular, rather than what is truly ethical. So, moving norms toward more positive stances requires a means through which users can assess the ethicalities of their ‘likes’, including knowing the efficacy of the norm. For instance, environmental research provides much data on which products and transport can be judged: for example life-cycle analysis \(LCA\ If such data were included in auction listings, sorted and rated through inclusion of environmental footprints, it could nudge choices toward the more environmentally-positive. Similarly, from a sustainability in computing perspective, it would be interesting to observe the impact of rating video-clips based not just on popularity, but also server/device power consumption \(and related CO2 equivalent emissions However, as well as within the cloud, decision scenarios can be augmented using mobile devices, such as smart-phones As well as providing on-the-spot access to machine and crowd knowledge, through mobile broadband, they also often incorporate a wide range of sensors. They can, for instance, be used for, and interfaced to, ph ysiological \(e.g. gait and ECG and environment \(e.g. temper ature, pressure, light-level monitoring \(see e.g. [19  T h ey can als o p r ov i d e l o cat io n context data for use in decision-support systems. However they can be used for much more, as demonstrated by the prototype Android app of Figure 5. The system allows interaction with everyday objects through barcodes, RFID more accurately NFC, which is largely compatible with 13.56MHz RFID tags\ and voice-recognition This has many uses in, for inst ance, healthcare, particularly for people coping with cogn itive challenges such as in Dementia conditions, who can find remembering things 
267 
258 
258 


a posteriori a priori 
challenging. The prototype of Figure 5 can not only provide support through images, text and videos, but can also provide voice direction and interactive graphics. The potential for such systems is obviously significant in other areas where simplified access to information is required. However, it has four specific advantages that should be recognised: it can provide indoor location data \(e.g. which rooms have been visited and when\, it can provide behaviour data \(e.g. has a meal been prepared\ it can provide decision context data \(e.g. the item being interrogated\, and can be interfaced to automated systems \(such as in smart-homes and care-spaces Fig. 5. Interaction prototype using RFID, barcodes and speech As decisions can be impulsive and irrational, it is also possible that mobile devices could be used to assess emotions to enhance decision support. For instance, there is currently much interest in Kansei Engineering as a methodology to deal with human feelings, demands, and impressions in contextaware applications. It is a Japa nese term meaning sensibility impression, and emotion [2 an d Kan s e i w o r d s  p r ov i d e  adjectives describing human emotion, sensibility and impression. Analysis of texts, voice calls and other interactions therefore provide the opportun ity to capture an implicit measure of emotion-state. Furthermore, humans are sensors into their own states, and so explicit ‘state’ data can also be collected through mobile interfaces For example, the prototype system shown in Figure 6 allows speakers to assess reactions to their presentations in real-time. It could be used to nudge performance in real-time, based on emotional response \(as well as accessed later for debriefing and improvement planning\. A clear advantage of incorporating both Kansei-like and questionnaire-like data is that they capture very different, yet complimentary, types of psychophysiological data Fig. 6. Emotion-based feedback prototype for speakers IV M ICRO E DUCATION AND C OMPETENCY Many areas of higher education are moving toward virtual content, either to supplement courses on a physical campus, or as the primary route to qualifications \(see [26  f o r f u ll discussion of the virtual campus concept\. In the Cloud, this is often achieved through course-management systems \(e.g Moodle\, distributed multimedia [27 a nd vi r t ual  labor a t or i e s Virtual laboratories, in particular, are becoming central to online education, having been described as ‘crucial to the future of learning’ [28 an d f o r ph y s i cal s y s t em s im por t a n t l y  allow for learning through repetition [2 As a n e x a m p l e   t h e  virtual laboratory of Figure 7 provides a complete simulation of measurement equipment used in geophysics, including mixed 2D and 3D graphics. Using HTML5 on mobile devices virtual laboratories can enable learn-anywhere education that goes far beyond simple text, images and video In general, virtual education is provided as part of complete qualifications, such as undergraduate and postgraduate degrees However, that need not be so in the context of nudging, as it can be argued that even small, incremental, knowledge gains can nudge people toward improved decision making. In that regard, the Open Univ ersity \(open.ac.uk\ relevant, as it provides modular courses that can be used individually \(e.g. for interest or continual profession al development\, combined to form qualifications \(certificates, diplomas and degrees\, or studied free of charge through open-access content if no accreditation is required. They also provide small ‘taster courses, as well as making significant use of online assessment It is evident that people pa ying for such online education realise that it will benefit their knowledge, experience, and decision-making abilities. So, it can also be argued that it is a form of ‘self-nudging’, when applied as domain-specific knowledge \(i.e. expert knowledge is often of less use when applied generally Fig. 7. A cloud-based virtual laboratory Furthermore, education is widely valued as an indicator of good judgement’ and so it can be hypothesised to also be a good indicator of quality in online crowd-mediated decision systems. For instance, the CrowdMed website uses a points system to indicate users with the highest success rates [13   which relies on knowledge-creation. Integrating micro-education into the system would allow knowledge integration. That could be considered critical as 
268 
259 
259 


prior success does not fully illustrate knowledge-transferability between domains, whereas micro-qualifications can be classified in terms of their appl icability to individual choices i.e. they represent specific-competencies rather than simply knowledge-levels. Micro-education need not, of course, be expensive. It can also be undertaken fully through online content, particularly virtual laboratories, that allow automated content-serving, testing and accreditation. However, it is possible that small donations by decision makers could be used for crowd-funding of micro-modules, with crowd-mediated assignment of funds based on knowledge of current education state, prior success rate and the importance of the study topicarea \(i.e. education and decision contexts V I NTEGRATION INTO C YBERSPACE The increasing complexity of computer systems over recent decades enhances the power of the metaphor of cyberspace with users existing as cybernauts within it. The co re aspects of cyberspace can be argued to have become more prevalent with the advent of Web 2.0: particularly the increased reliance on social media and the \(heavily machine and device mediated see [30 a n to hu m a n co mm unic a tio ns op ti o n s it  facilitates. Similarly, it can be argued that ‘the Cloud’ has further developed Cyberspace, making data, applications and social connections not only un-locatable for users, but also largely intangible assets. As users we can navigate it in many ways, including through hypertext and virtual reality, making cyberspace a ‘place’ where virtual existence can be anything from superficial to fully-immersive Cyberspace is also now a place populated not just with human decision makers: for instan ce, intelligent decision-based systems and agents now abound. That change largely relies on data-mining of big-data, with many businesses now reliant on software to analyse-and-decide, such as in financial markets where much trading is now auto mated. The size of datasets potentially many petabytes\ in big-data analysis, and the speed at which data can be added, dictate that human involvement will become increasingly less demanding into the future Therefore, there is no reason why the power of big-data should not be proposed as a means of augmenting human decision making by providing, and framing, decision-related information that facilitates ethical and life-improving decision outcomes When based on big-data that allows humans to make decisions that are data-aware, allowing them to leverage the power of big-data analysis that is as dynamic over time as their needs, and even based on almost-real-time sensing \(e.g. the web-of-things\. Therefore, the sy stems described herein are not entirely new, being an extension of the use of data-aware agents and systems in business to application for humans in their daily lives. So, our research around nudging and technology is being based on the need not to create cyberspace anew, but allowing its design to evolve as a means of supporting environmentally-sus tainable and life-improving choices. Therefore, integrating machine-knowledge, humanknowledge and micro-education can be seen as a means of attempting to ensure cyberspace can be considered both paternal and libertarian VI C ONCLUSIONS It must be apparent to all readers that limited-rationality in human life often results in poor decision making that impacts on the three pillars of sustainable development: individual societal, and environmental cost. This may be due to factors such as decision time, impulsivity, domain-specific knowledge and misunderstanding decision-risks. So, improving decisions could be considered to require filling gaps between decisiondescriptions and user-experience, which has obvious parallels with the ethos of academia. Therefore, a rationale has been proposed for development of technological systems that aid in ensuring decision-makers have access to the knowledge they need for objective, rational, decisions that shape their, and our futures in a more positive direction For instance, advances in massively-parallel computing and cloud knowledge-bases, can allow almost-instantaneous access to domain-knowledge and objective advice. In parallel integration of the cloud-of-things allows us to take advantage of dynamic knowledge of the world around us, including userspecific environment and physiological data. Together with other context data \(e.g. location services, RFID, barcodes, and even emotions\it allows significant service-personalization for users, as well as increased, and more relevant, data on which machines and crowds can base their advice However, the potential for academia to contribute to such an undertaking must not be underestimated. For instance research can be considered the generation of knowledge to benefit human-kind. Massive amounts of data are generated annually in academia, and could be used as the basis for knowledge-bases for improved decision-making. Furthermore a central goal of education is to provide skills, knowledge and experience that can be abstracted by learners to new decisionscenarios. It therefore explic itly seeks to enhance decisionmaking: to minimise risk and maximise ethical, technological and socially-acceptable outcomes Therefore, micro-education has been proposed as a means of enhancing crowd involvement, potentially including crowdfunded learning opportunities to ‘micro-nudge’ crowdknowledge toward objective and ethical social norms. So, in conclusion, this paper does not argue that technology can be considered a tool for use in nudging, rather it argues that a well developed system integrating individual users, crowds, webcontent, machine-knowledge, micro-education and the cloudof-things, provides an opportunity to augment humans such that they can make the efficacious and ethical decisions they often desire. In so doing, cyberspace may become both paternal and libertarian, supporting a positive and ethical future for humankind R EFERENCES 1 M a r t eau T  M Ogi l vi e D R o land M  a nd K e l l y  M  P J ud gin g  nudging: Can nudging improve population health?”, British Medical Journal, Vol. 342, 263-265, 2011 2 S ch ne l l e nba ch J   N u d g e s an d no r m s  O n t h e po l i t i c a l e c o n o m y o f s o f t  paternalism”, European Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 28, 266-277 2012 3 V al l g r da, S    N udg e  A ne w an d be tte r w a y to im pr o v e he al th    Health Policy, Vol. 104, 200-203, 2012 
269 
260 
260 


Computer Science 
4 B onn ell C  Mc K ee M  F l et c h er   A   H a in es  A  A n d W i lk in s o n  P  Nudge smudge: UK Government misrepresents ‘nudge’”, The Lancet Vol. 377, 2158-2159, 2011 5 L ance t  P ubl i c he al th in  E n g l an d  f r o m  n udg e to nag    V o l  37 9 19 4   2012 6 B ar ne s, A  P T o ma, L  W i l l o ck, J. A nd H al l  C  C o m p ar i ng a b u d g e   to a ‘nudge’: Farmer responses to voluntary and compulsory compliance in a water quality management regime”, Journal of Rural Studies http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jrurstud.2012.09.006, 2012  B ra dbu ry   A   M c G i m p s e y   I  a n d Sa nt ori  D  R evi s in g ra ti on a lit y   T h e use of ‘nudge’ approaches in neoliberal education policy”, Journal of Education Policy, Vol. 28\(2\, 247-267, 2013  K op e l m a n  P T a c k lin g ob es i t y   to ‘n ud ge’ or t o ‘s h ove  Pu b l i c  Money & Management, Vol. 31\(4\, 236-238, 2011 9 D uf l o E K r e m e r M. a nd Ro b ins o n J  N u d g i ng f a r m e r s to us e  fertilizer: Theory and experimental evidence from Kenya”, American Economic Review, Vol. 101\(6\, 2350-90, 2011 10 O n ji K  A nd K ikuc hi R  P r o cr as t in a t io n  pr o m p ts  a n d pr e f e r e n ce s  Evidence from daily records of self-directed learning activities”, The Journal of Socio-Economics, Vol. 40, 929-941, 2011  A v i n eri  E   On  th e u s e an d p o t e n tia l of b e h a vi o u ra l ec on om i c s from  the perspective of transport and climate change”, Transport Geography Vol. 24, 512-521, 2012  J o h n s on E J   Ch o ic e t h eor i es W h a t a r e th ey go od f o r    J o u r n a l of  Consumer Psychology, Vol. 23\(1\, 154-157, 2013 13 N u w e r  R W hat ail s m e   N e w S c ie ntis  2 0 th April, 21, 2013 14 D ika ia ko s   M.D  P a l l is  G K a ts ar o s D  Me hr a  P   an d V a kal i  A    Cloud computing: Distributed internet computing for IT and scientific research”, IEEE Internet Computing, Sep/Oct, 10-13, 2009 15 T h o m as, A M Mo o r e P S h a h H  Ev ans C S h ar ma M X h af a, F   Mount, S., Pham, H.V., Wilcox, A.J., Patel, A., Chapman, C. and Chima, P. "Smart care spaces: Needs for intelligent at-home care International Journal of Space-Based and Situated Computing, 3\(1\, 3544, 2013  M oore P  B a rolli  L   Xh a f a  F  and T h om a s A  M   M o n it ori n g and Detection of Agitation in Dementia: Towards Real-Time and Big-Data Solutions”, this conference, 2013  M oor e P   an d P h a m  H  V   P er s o n a li za t i o n and Ru le S t r a t e gi es i n D a ta Intensive Intelligent Context-AwareSystems”, Knowledge Engineering Review, Cambridge University Press, UK \(in press\, 2013  W o od  G  an d New b orou gh  M D y n a m ic en ergy-c o n s u m p t i on indicators for domestic appliances: environment, behaviour and design Energy and Buildings, Vol. 35, pp.821-841, 2003 19 T h o m as, A M Ev a n s C  Mo o r e P S h ar ma M P a te l A S h ah H    Chima, P., Abu Rmeileh, S., Dubb, G. and Bhana, R., "eMonitoring for eHealth: Research Projects for Assisted Living", International Workshop on Informatics for Intelligent Context-Aware Enterprise Systems ICAES-2013\ in Proceedings of the 27th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications AINA-2013\, Barcelona, Spain, March 25-28, 2013  K la s n j a P  and P r a tt  W   H ea lt h c a r e i n th e p o ck et M a p p i n g t h e s p a c e  of mobile-phone health interventions”, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Vol. 45, 184-198, 2012 21 v a n de r Br o e k, E  L  an d W e s t e r ink, J  H  D  M  C o n s i de r a tio ns f o r  emotion-aware consumer products”, Applied Ergonomics, Vol. 40 pp.1055-1064, 2009  M o c h o c ki B L a h i ri K    a nd Cad a m b i S  Power a n a l y s i s of m obi le 3D graphics”, Proceedings of Design, Automation and Test in Europe DATE '06\. European Design and Automation Association, 3001 Leuven, Belgium, 502-507, 2006 23 Be r anuy M O b e r st, U  Car b o n e l l  X  an d Ch amar r o A  P r o bl e m atic  internet and mobile phone use and clinical symptoms in college students: The role of emotional intelligence”, Computers in Human Behavior, Vol. 25, 1182-1187, 2009 24 H e r t w ig  R. a n d E r e v  I T he des c r ip tio n–e x p e r ie nce g a p i n r is k y  choice”, Trends in Cognitive Science, Vol. 13\(12\, 517-523, 2009 25 S a l e m  B N a k a ts u R  an d Ra ut e r be r g M K ans e i e x pe r ie n ce   aesthetic, emotions and inner balance”, International Journal of Cognitive Informatics and Natural Intelligence, Vol. 3, 54-64, 2009 26 T h o m as, A M S h a h H   Mo o r e P  Ev ans C S h ar m a  M  Mo u n t S    Pham, H.V., Osman, K., Wilcox, A.J., Rayson, P., Chapman, C., Chima P., Athwal, C. and While, D. "Challenges and opportunities for the future of icampuses 14\(1\5-25, 2013 27 S h ar ma M R N e w e ll D D a v i e s P T o dd B T o w ar ds D i str i b u t i n g  Multimedia Applications on a Virtualized Cloud Infrastructure Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Advances in Multimedia \(MMEDIA\, Chamonix, France, 29th April-4th May, 44-49 2012 28 McG r ath   M B a n d  Br o w n, J  R     V is ual l e ar ni ng f o r s c ie nce  an d  engineering”, IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications September/October, 56-63, 2005  Du du lea n C  and Sta r et u I   3 D i n t e ra c t i o n  t e c h n i qu es in vi r t ua l rea l i t y  applications for engineering education”, Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Virtual Learning \(ICVL\, 380-385, 2011  G e n t i le A   S a nt an gelo  A   S o r c e S  an d V it a b i le S  H u m an t ohuman interfaces: emerging trends and challenges”, in Xhafa, F., You I., Kolodziej, J., and Barolli, L. \(eds\ International Journal of SpaceBased and Situated Computing, 1\(1\, 1-17, 2011 
270 
261 
261 





  











Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Historical Data Processing To load correlated data  Uncompress, unmarshall  Create a list of files containing the correlated data  Write data to warehouse 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Live Data Processing Processed using IBM MQ IBM Message Broker and a technique called XML Shredding Message Broker Compute Nodes  Uncompress Node  Extract correlated messages  Shred Node adds to DB Stored Procedure “shreds XML docs and adds to tables 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Issues and Observations Initial load of one day of data ~ 7 hours Optimizations  Write data in batches  Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Deploy a higher performance machine  Use load instead of insert  Use DB2 Range-Partitioned tables  Database tunings Time reduced from 7 hours to approx 30 minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Original application created the SQL statement by appending elements to a Java String  It was taking five hours \(of the seven hours Strings  Instead Java StringBuilder used  Java Strings immutable  Time savings of 71.4 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Deployed on a higher-performance machine  Application ported from IBM Blade Center HS21 \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit dual-core Xeon 5130 processor to Dell M4500 computer \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit of quad-core Intel Core i7 processor  Reduced the time to thirty minutes Bulk loading instead of insert  Application was modified to write CSV files for each table  Entire day worth of data bulk loaded  Reduced the time to fifteen minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Range-Partitioned tables \(RPT  To limit the size of tables, the original code created multiple tables per table type  This puts burden on the application to query multiple tables when a range crosses several tables  With RPT, user is not required to make multiple queries when a range crosses a table boundary  Increased the time to thirty minutes  Additional fifteen minute cost per day of partitioning enabled time savings during queries 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Database tunings  Range periods changed from a week to a month  Automatic table space resizing changed from 32MB to 512KB  Buffer pool size decreased  Decreased the time to twenty minutes Overall, total time savings of 95.2 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  20 IBM Confidential Analytics Landscape Degree of Complexity Competitive Advantage Standard Reporting Ad hoc reporting Query/drill down Alerts Simulation Forecasting Predictive modeling Optimization What exactly is the problem What will happen next if What if these trends continue What could happen What actions are needed How many, how often, where What happened Stochastic Optimization Based on: Competing on Analytics, Davenport and Harris, 2007 Descriptive Prescriptive Predictive How can we achieve the best outcome How can we achieve the best outcome including the effects of variability Used with permission of IBM 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Initial Analysis Activities Flights departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving within a date and time range Flights between city pair A,B Flights between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a volume on a date. \(sector, center, etc boundary Flights passing through a volume within a date and time range Flights passing through an airspace volume in n-minute intervals All x-type aircraft departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving on a date between city pair A,B Flights departing or arriving on a date between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a named fix, airway, center, or sector Filed Flight plans for any of the above Actual departure, arrival times and actual track reports for any of the above 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial SPSS Applications Show all tracks by call sign 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case For a given Airspace Volume of Interest \(AVOI compute distinct traffic volume at some point in the future  Aim to alert on congestion due to flow control areas or weather if certain thresholds are exceeded  Prescribe solution \(if certain thresholds are exceeded Propose alternate flight paths  Use pre-built predictive model  SPSS Modeler performs data processing Counts relevant records in the database \(pattern discovery Computes traffic volume using statistical models on descriptive pattern Returns prediction with likelihood 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  24 Pulls in the TRACKINFO table of MAIN using SQL Limits the data to database entries which fall inside the AVOI Combines the SOURCE_DATE and SOURCE_TIME to a timestamp that can be understood by modeler Computes which time interval the database entry falls in. The time interval is 15 minutes Defines the target and input fields needed for creating the model Handles the creation of the model Produces a graph based off of the model results Final prediction 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Cognos BI Applications IBM Cognos Report Studio  Web application for creating reports  Can be tailored by date range, aircraft id, departure/arrival airport etc  Reports are available with links to visuals IBM Framework Manager  Used to create the data package  Meta-data modeling tool  Users can define data sources, and relationships among them Models can be exported to a package for use with Report Studio 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 1 of 3 Report shows the departure date, departure and arrival locations and hyperlinks to Google Map images DeparturePosition and ArrivalPosition are calculated data items formatted for use with Google Maps Map hyperlinks are also calculated based on the type of fix 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 2 of 3 DeparturePosition, Departure Map, ArrivalPosition and Arrival Map are calculated data items \(see departure items below DepartureLatitude DepartureLongitude DeparturePosition Departure Map 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 3 of 3 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Conclusion and Next Steps Current archive is 50 billion records and growing  Approximately 34 million elements per day  1GB/day Sheer volume of raw surveillance data makes analytics process very difficult The raw data runs through a series of processes before it can be used for analytics Next Steps  Continue application of predictive and prescriptive analytics  Big data visualization 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Questions and Comments Paul Comitz Boeing Research & Technology Chantilly, VA, 20151 office Paul.Comitz@boeing.com 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  31 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


