The Privacy Problem in Big Bata Applications: An Empirical Study on Facebook 
Abstract 
When using mobile phones, credit cards, electronic mail, browsing social networks etc., contemporary consumers leave behind thousands of digital footprints. Each footprint reflects actual actions that we take in given place and time. The analysis of thousands of such footprints conducted among large groups of people allows us to examine human behaviour on a scale that has never been imagined in scientific studies concerning psychology and sociology. The results of those 
 Jerzy Surma Department of Management Systems Warsaw School of Economics Warsaw, Poland e-mail: jerzy.surma@gmail.com    
analyses already have a significant influence on contemporary management, especially when it comes to new business opportunities in companies that employ business models based on the one-to-one relations with their customers. Nevertheless, this outstanding opportunity implies an enormous privacy problem We will illustrate this issue by an empirical research based on the data gathered from Facebook, where users are using privacy controls that allow displaying their content only to a selected group of people. Users of such controls will likely continue positing more, even as their network grows or becomes sparser We test these predictions using a dataset from Facebook gathered from a sample of college students and find statistical support for them. Our conclusions are that individuals are relatively prudent 
and are actually very aware of the social norms 
Keywords: big data analysis, social netwrok sites, privacy problem  
 
 I NTRODUCTION  The analysis of digital footprints \(credit card transactions mobile phone calls, e-mails replays, RFID mass transit cards movements captured by GPS in smart devices, blog post likesé in social networks sites, etc.\ that reflect human behaviour is a particularly important factor that stimulates paradigm shifts with in the business management,  which is focusing on extensive data-based decisions making by employing detailed and in-depth information on customers Access to extensive, real-time volumes of behavioural 
I 
customers data, with special regard to their social relationships becomes a basis for the development of advanced analytical customer management systems. One of their most important elements are social relationships and interactions between customers associated with integration of social networks sites with a corporate information systems. The ongoing research seems to support the hypothesis by Petland [1  on t h e so c a l l e d  honest signalsê, which may be paraphrased as follows: éthe analysis of digital footprints, reflecting actual behaviour of people, allows us to foresee their future actions, providing data that may be used for business purposesé. In business practice, it gives a possibility to build an analytical customer profiles [2  
that 
  
is a result of mining the time series of customer transactional data, as well as other social-demographic data  in order to generate additional business value. In the current approaches, the customer profile is developed and used in marketing campaign management systems. The company possesses a local data warehouse and limits profile creation to customer data analysis accepted by law. In this approach the customer is not informed about data processing that concerns him. In this scenario, a customer analytical profile is a property of the company. The new emerging trend is that selected elements of customer profile start to be traded between companies. The companies exchange information on customer 
behaviours and customers may be informed about data processing and exchanging and they can use loyalty and benefit programs. In this approach, the analytical customer profile becomes a joint property of companies participating in the program S uc h a ppl i c a t i on s of bi g da t a a na l y s i s ha v e a n  enormous business potential, but at the same time raise justified questions about protection of personal data  II 
 
PRIVACY ISSUE   The problem of privacy associated with digital footprint registration has in fact two dimensions. The first one is of business character and is associated with the use of customer data to adjust product and/or service offer to the customers needs. Such a situation raises the so-called Privacy Para  
There is a natural contradiction between customersê will to protect their personal data and their will to r eceive personalised marketing messages. The two conditions cannot be met at the same time. Hence, paradoxically, a customer may agree upon transferring their private data and even contribute to the process of profile building,  in exchange for  special offers bonuses, discounts, promotions, etc. Another dimension of the privacy issue is associated with the customers personal life when companies gain access to particularly sensitive data that go beyond standard customer behaviours and concern e.g. the moral sphere. In this case, the paradox arises from the fact that every individual has a right to not disclose their personal data 
but at the same time there is virtually no possibility to live in the modern world without using mobile phones, credit cards or the Internet. The issue seems of even greater importance, given the fact that the registered data may be stored without any time restrictions. Thus, our past actions may impact the present, but also distant future, affecting even our great-grandchildre   It may be stated that the notion of privacy has a great importance for our life and business model development in the era of digital economy [5 6   I t  w a s d e ci d e d t o ex am i n e t h i s  
SocialCom/PASSAT/BigData/EconCom/BioMedCom 2013 978-0-7695-5137-1/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/SocialCom.2013.150 955 


  
002 002 
RESEARCH SETTINGS AND DATA COLLECTION  Kevin Lewis presented a use of a longitudinal dataset combined with network modeling to examine the co-evolution of college students friendships and privacy behavior on Facebook [9   H e f ound si g n i f i c a n t de g r e e e f f e c t s on st ude nt s privacy behavior, where students with larger networks are more likely to have a private profile. Private here mean separate ç from strangers. In this context we can formulate the following hypothesis  
  
important phenomenon based on the behavioural data gathered via Facebook, a popular on-line social network site Fundamental features to the experience on Facebook are a personês newsfeed which is a personalized feed of his or her friends updates. Facebook requires the user to identify themselves authentically. The profile displays information about the individual he or she has chosen to share, including interests, education and work background and contact information. F acebook also includes core applications photos, events, videos, groups, and pages Ö that let people connect and share in rich and engaging ways. Users can communicate with one another through chat, personal messages, wall posts, pokes, or status updates. Additionally Facebook users have a control over the profile visibility and on-line activity Related work on the privacy issue in Facebook is widely presented in Stutzman et al. [7 an d Ibrahim et al. [8 p a p e rs   The research group consisted of college students. The choice of this particular research group was not accidental, since potentially, young people display less interest in personal data protection on a social networking site. The main goal of the research was to examine to what extent the users employ privacy settings and the influence of such actions on their behaviours  III We decided to carry out a two-stage empirical study. The first stage is to determine to which extent the users of social network sites deliberately use privacy controls. This stage will be carried out with the use of descriptive statistics. Second stage, on the other hand, is to determine the influence that the usage of privacy controls have on the usersê activity. This study is corresponding to the Piskorski social strategy theory   In spring 2011 the Warsaw School of Economics students were invited to participate in research experiment. No course credit was and students were not compensated for the study We did, however, offer a free participation in the workshop on social media in business applications. We created the project webpage which described the project in complete detail including the Graph API protocol description, that is officially supported by F acebo ok. The Graph API presents a simple consistent view of the Facebook social graph, uniformly representing objects in the graph \(e.g., people, photos, events and pages\ and the connections between them \(e.g., friend relationships, shared content, and photo tags\. Every object in the social graph has a unique identifier. After two weeks advertising campaign \(e-mails, newsletter, students journals etc.\  at Warsaw School of Economics we r eceived a positive response from 272 Facebook users. The r eceived data were anonymized and the whole study was organized in the way to avoid the selection bias in study participation. Our research is based on the 214 active users having the following characteristics \(those data are based on the survey answers age \(18-26 years old\ Ö 71%, sex \(men\ - 51 %, education college student\ Ö 75%, location \(city more than 1 million population\ Ö 72%. We started to download all available data provided by Graph API excluding chat conversation data since June 2011. The data presented in this study were collected in August 2011, two months before the date, when F acebook lunched his new privacy policy introducing pre-defined user groups In order to conduct the regression analysis the three kinds of variables were established from data provided by Graph API Dependent variable Ö user  has an opportunity to create content \(update status, post a picture, etc.\, that is posted to a user Wall \(timeline\. Then Facebook automatically is generating a News Feed story so that the next time user friends log into Facebook, they see the content the specific uses shared on their homepage. It is possibility control the visibility of these stories by using the audience selector. By means of a dropdown menu it is possible to choose who an user want to share a post with. To capture user activity we constructed the dependent variable This variable is defined by a number of posts \(the possible post types are: photo, status, link video, check in, music, flash object\hat a specific user published on his Wall during an experiment period, and are available to read and comment by his friends Independent variable - we took into account the size of the social network that is straightforward measured by the variable. This variable is measure by a total  number of items on the friends list  Control variables - we included two types of control variables: user demographics controls and a measure of users interactions. First, we controlled for user demographics data by including a binary variable Second we controlled for the interactions to a specific users from his friends by  variable. This variable is measure by a number of posts published on an user Wall by his friends   Unfortunately, due to Graph API restriction,  it was impossible to download the whole friends network of our experiment participants. Due to this restriction we were not able to calculate more advanced social network analysis measures like 
 
002 
The increase in the number of friends will increase the likelihood of posting status updates where the users are using privacy settings   Self posts Friends number Sex Others posts 
956 


1. Self posts 2. Sex \(male=1 3. Others posts 4. Friends number S ELF POSTS Sex \(male=1 Others posts Friends number Number of observations 54 160 214 R 55 41 41 R2 F statistic 4.24 5.01 6.95 Numbers in parentheses are standard errors. Constant was omitted. *p  < .001 in a two-tailed test  The main goal of this empirical study is to determine the impact of using privacy controls have on the usersê posting activity. We were able to established a user privacy awareness by monitoring usage of the Facebook privacy se ttings. As it was mentioned by means of a dropdown menu it is possible to choose who an user want to share a post with: Public, Friends of Friends, Friends, and Custom \(includes specific groups friend lists or people an user specified to include or exclude Table II contains the results from regression analysis in which the dependent variable is 
D ESCRIPTIVE STATISTICS AND CORRELATIONS   54.201 79.910 1     0523 0501 001 1    8.893 7.820 138 196 1   263.065 179.799 170 065 205 1 Total number of observations = 214; *p < .05 **p < .01  in a two-tailed test  TABLE II R EGRESSION ANALYSIS FOR   7.38 13.13 9.84  15.63 13.73 10.76  1.61 82 51  1.27 1.02 82  08 13 11  06 04 03  31 16 17 CONCLUSIONS  The conducted empirical studies are of preliminary character, but give an insight into the phenomenon. The participants of the study showed a relatively high awareness of the use of privacy controls. The research proved that conscious use of privacy controls is influenced by the level of users activity, which in this case stays in positive relationship with the number of friends on the website. Contrarily to common belief, even group of students, exercise their right to privacy whenever it is possible. Based on the obtained results, it may be supposed that the impossibility to control privacy settings could reduce or even terminate users activity. These conclusions find confirmation in the policy of  Facebook which in Fall 2011 introduced pre-defined users and groups As it has been shown, information privacy is a particularly important issue that may be subject to conscious management In a broader perspective, the phenomenon has much greater implications for all the business use of big data analysis. It may be expected that in the near future, customers will demand not only to control their personal data gathered by the third party but also to be given access to control mechanisms. Moreover they might also demand the right to delete given information This means that ethical development of business models based on a wide repertoire of customersê behavioural data cannot proceed wit hout taking into consideration the active role played by customers and their consciousness of such revolutionary changes A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research was financed by the National Science Centre in Poland under grant number UMO-2011/01/B/HS4/06630 The author would like to thank Mikolaj Jan Piskorski for his valued comments on the privacy issue in social on-line networks and Mateusz Chrzest for his help in data collection 
Variables Mean S.D 1 2 3 4 Model 1 2 3 
Friends number Other posts Sex Other Posts Self Posts Other Posts Other Posts Self posts Self posts Friends number Friends number 
density. Anyway the results presented in the next chapter are promising  IV RESULTS Almost 75% \(160 on 214\ of the participants were conscious about privacy setting and they created they own private friends lists. Those results are quite similar to the boyd and Hargittai survey research on F acebook privacy setting  Table I reports the descriptive statistics and correlations between variables. The average number of friends is 263. The largest correlation coefficient between two independent variables is .205 \(between and  The reason that those two variables are relatively highly correlated is that in bigger social networks there is higher probability of  r eceiving a post from others. It is worth mentioning the significant \(at the .01 level\ correlation between the and variables, that interpretation is that women are receiving posts their Wall from others in o pposite to men. There is a very intriguing negative correlation significant on the .05 level\ between and variables. It means that an intensive activity of the specific subject is not influencing directly others activity on the subject Wall. It should be underline clearly the  variable is not representing other comments to posts TABLE I We tested the dependency between user activity and the grow of the social network in the context of privacy concern in the three models. The first model \(column 1 in the table II\ was established for the 54 non privacy aware users. The second model \(column 2 in the table II\ was created for the 160 users which were concern about privacy proving that by using privacy settings. The third model \(column 3 in the table II\ was established for the whole group. In contrary to the first model the second one is a significant. The coefficient of is positive and highly statistically significant at .001 level. This exactly means that increase in the number of friends will increase the likelihood of posting status updates where the users are using privacy settings  V 
  
VARIABLE  
  
957 


Additionally the author would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their helpful and constructive comments  R EFERENCES   1 
  
A. Petland, Honest Signals: How They Shape Our World. Cambbridge MIT Press,  2010 2 J.Surma, çModeling customer behavior and social relations with analytical profilesé in Social Network Mining, Analysis and Research Trends: Techniques and Applications, I-Hsien Ting, Eds. New York: IGI Global, 2012, pp. 171-182 3 S. Kelly, Customer Intelligence. From Data to Dialoque. New York Willey, 2006 4 V. Mayer-Schˆnberger, Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age. New Haven: Princeton University Press, 2009 5 A. Goldfarb, C. Tucker, çPrivacy Regulation and Online Advertising Management Science, 57\(1\, 2011, pp. 57-71 6 C. Tucker, çSocial Networks, Personalized Advertising, and Privacy Controlsé, NET Institute Working Paper No. 10-07; MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 4851-10, 2011 7 F. Stutzman, R. Gross, A. Acquisti, çSilent Listeners: The Evolution of Privacy and Disclosure on Facebooké, Journal of Privacy and Confidentiality 4 \(2\, 2012, pp. 7-41 8 S. Z. Ibrahim, A. Blandford, N. Bianchi-Berthouze, "Privacy Settings on Facebook: Their Roles and Importance", IEEE International Conference on Green Computing and Communications, 2012, pp.426-433 9 K. Lewis, J. Kaufman, N.Christakis, çThe Taste for Privacy: An Analysis of College Student Privacy Settings in an Online Social Networké, Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 14, 2008 pp.79Ö100  M.J. Piskorski, Competing with Social Networks: How to Leverage Social Media for Profit. New Haven: Princeton University Press, 2013 in press  D.M. boyd, E. Hargittai, çF acebook Privacy Settings: Who Cares First Monday 15 \(8\, 2010   
 
           
958 


TABLE II: V ALUE C OUNTING PAIRS OF THE PROCESSING ONLINE AND OFFLINE  SS 7965.1242 75519 SD 7611.8491 68882 DS 7849.465 77931 DD 469424.39 4581118  In an intuitive way, the Rand Statistic 0.969435926 0.9685451 ARI 0.491336496 0.4895717 Jaccard index 0.3396677 0.3390697 Fowlkes y Millows 0.50732666 0.5060091 F-measure 0.88135201 0.896825 On the other hand the ARI, which is an adjustment from last index, quantifies the coincidence between compared partitions but takes into account the obtained and expected index, in such a way that if the value is zero, the partitions are independent and approaches to one, are the same. So, the obtained value indicates that the group isn't close to the original, but it has to be taken into account that according to 6 th e s i g n i f i c a n c e of  th e m eas u r e c a n  be af f ect ed by th e  supposition that is made about the distribution Jaccard coefficient doesn't take into account data pair that doesn't match 
SS DD DD DD B Joensuu and MOPI 
 
and high values indicates that exists similarities between divisions obtained with clustering algorithm, which is quite similar to the original although some objects were integrated in different groups which were assigned in the partition, this is because the number of groups determined by the algorithm is lower than the original division, as it is explained ahead It can be observed, in Table 2, that groups formed, both online as offline are well defined because is higher although in online processing the SS index is lower than DS it means that within the groups are assigned patterns from a different one. This may be due to two situations, the first, the influence of \003 parameter on the threshold to formed groups then the greater the value of \003 the greater the radius of groups and consequently the number of resulting groups can be different to real number, as in this case, which causes that patterns are assigned to one group that is not their own according to the real data The second situation is that the patterns are so similar that the algorithm ranks them as part of a different group from the original. This situation is observed in much smaller extent, because setting the \003 parameter can be approached very accurately the original result, this can be seen with the value of \003 = 0.2, where the number of groups and their allocation is almost equal to that of the original set consisting of 31 groups and the closest number the algorithm gets is 37 From the counting-pairs results were calculated the index in Table 3, which shows the result of the index used to assess the quality of the clustering. To begin, generally can be seen in the Table 3 that results of offline and online processing are quite similar, the difference among them is about one hundredth, besides having the same behavior. This indicates that online processing of the dataset according to RAM available generate a clustering very similar to the offline clustering The Rand statistic calculation indicates the fraction from those pairs that are grouped the same way as in the clustering result as in the original partition. While if is closer to one the value of this index, the more will be similar between each other. Rand statistic focuses basically on calculating the coincidence between compared partitions; it is shown in Table 3, that concordance between data set D31 is very high TABLE III: R ESULTS OF THE VALIDATION INDEXES PROCESSING THE DATA SET D31 OFFLINE AND ONLINE WITH \007   0.2 and as a result of this, reflects the proportion of data that has been assigned, so, according to this index, the similarity between partitions is very low While Fowlkes and Millows index calculus indicates de probability that the elements are assigned the same way in the group and in the real data, thus the obtained value indicates that probability is 50 On the other side, F-Measure calculates in a more accurate way how much clusters are similar between each and the original cluster, obtaining a balanced average of the patterns assigned correctly respect to the total of them and those who should have been assigned, thus the result obtained in Table 3 indicates the accuracy of the clustering is good, being the patterns assigned in a correct way in its most Following will be described the results for the datasets Joensuu and MOPI. For their validation were implemented the Calinski-Harabasz and Davies-Boulin index, from the results of which is determined what is \003 more convenient parameter value for processing the data. It is important to point, as it has been mentioned, that in all the results there is a growing tendency to the \003 value, in both index, so that is taken as main reference the D-B index score, for which the lower value the better clustering result Therefore, as the majority results of D-B, the last three \003 values increase significantly with respect to the first three these last are discarded, so most of the graphics included here are shown just the most relevant area for the analysis but at the same time shows the behavior of the clustering through the index value. Consequently the optimal values of 003 are determined, from which is selected the best based on the C-H result and the number of generated groups with the corresponding \003 value In the case of the Joensuu and MOPI datasets, and the lack of information about their clustering, their online results are compared with their offline processing results. In Fig 3 can be seen the graphics from the resulting clustering of Joensuu dataset, offline \(a\d online \(b\. According to the graphs, the general behavior in both processing techniques take to the same tendency, even the value of \003 = 0.2 the D-B value is still small, the C-H value is significantly higher than with \003 = 0.1 and there is more similarity in the number of generated clusters. So the more balanced result of clustering is generated with \003 = 0.2 For MOPI dataset the results are similar to those of Joensuu, as likewise discards the last three values of \003 for which the D-B result is bigger than 1. The value of \003 = 0.3 is 
Online offline Indexes Offline Online 
191 
191 


 
   
Figure. 2. Cluster validation indexes CH, DB to Joensuu. \(a\ne, \(b\ne Figure. 3. Cluster validation indexes CH, DB to MOPI. \(a\line, \(b\line a 
discarded because the prior value is increased considerably thus the first two \003 values could be selected randomly because, according to the result of index validation, these takes its expected value, but \003 = 0.2 generates a number of groups near to offline processing data sets \(Fig.4 Based on the previous analysis of the results is possible to see that no all the validation index quantify the clustering quality in the same way, and this quantity sometimes does not completely describe the clustering quality. Due to mention before, taking into account that the results for D31 dataset are known, could be determined that in the most of the experiments, with all the \003 values for this dataset, the Fmeasure is closer to the right description of the cluster quality, as it was mentioned it considers the number of assigned patterns correctly to respect all these and the ones that really should be assigned a b b 
0.782539156 0.000292808 75 3.145888624 0.006643861 29 6.639860423 0.055440428 15 13.12607999 1.599240769 6 18.37597624 4.948387189 4 35.38254563 7.762014636 3 2.25388551 0.00058929 57 4.45963377 0.00352498 25 13.5032178 0.03621329 12 22.7958235 0.47361588 5 31.7780149 2.49684401 3 43.939682 11.5414901 2  0.019295739 0.000593965 19 0.059647962 0.021311501 11 0.137855536 0.244321076 5 0.538611023 25.09372648 3 0.666525355 46.93172956 2 0.867211814 1068.606773 2 0.01913797 0.00023392 14 0.07432147 0.00805482 9 0.12976198 0.0851258 4 0.47157364 5.10235998 3 0.66398435 24.5350898 2 0.79557315 190.210248 2 
C-H D-B Groups C-H D-B Groups C-H D-B Groups C-H D-B Groups 
192 
192 


E. Alppaydin, Introduction to Machin Learning 2nd ed. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press, 2010 2 A. Schwaighofer, J. Q. Candela, T. Borchert, T. Graepel, and R Herbrich, çScalable clustering and keyword suggestion for online advertisements,é in Proceedings of the Third International Workshop on Data Mining and Audience Intelligence for Advertising, ACM 2009, pp. 27-36 3 J. Beringer, E. Hullermeyer, Online clustering of data streams Technical Report 31, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science. Philipps-University Marburg: Germany, 2003 4 J. Mairal, F. Bach, J. Ponce, and G. Sapiro, çOnline dictionary learning for sparse coding,é in Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Machine Learning, 2009 5 S. Theodoridis, K.  Koutroumbas, Pattern Recognition 4th ed. Estados Unidos: Elseiver Academic Press, 2006 6 S. Wagner, and D. Wagner Comparing clusterings: an overview Universit‰t Karlsruhe, Fakult‰t f¸r Informatik, 2007 7 Y. Sasaki, Y. çThe truth of the F-measureé in Teach Tutor mater 2007, pp. 1-5 8 J. M. Santos, and M. Embrechts, çOn the use of the adjusted rand index as a metric for evaluating supervised classific ation ICANN Artificial Neural Networks, IC ANN, 2009, pp. 175-184 9 K. Y. Yeung, W. L. Ruzzo, çDetails of the adjusted rand index and clustering algorithms,é in Bioinformatics, vol. XVII, 2001, pp. 763 774  R. J. Campello, çA fuzzy extension of the rand index and other related indexes for clustering and classification assessment in Pattern Recognition Letters, vol. XXVIII no. 7, 2007, pp. 833-841  J. Tantrum, A. Murua, and W. Stuetzle, çHierarchical model-based of large datasets through fractionation and refractionation in Information Systems XXIX no. 4, 2004, pp. 315-326  V. N. Xuan, J. Epps, and J. Bailey, çInformation theoretic measures for clusterings comparison: is a correction for chance necessary?,é in Proceedings of the 26 th International Conference on Machine Learning, Montreal, Canada, 2009  L. Vendramin, R. J. G. B. Campello, and E. R. Hruschka, On the comparison of relative clustering validity criteria, Sparks, 2009  J. Hern·ndez, M. J. RamÌrez, C. Ferri, IntroducciÛn a la MinerÌa de Datos. Madrid: Person EducaciÛn, 2004  M. N. Murty, and V. S. Devi, Pattern recognition: An algorithmic approach. Springer, 2012  B. F. Cortijo, TÈcnicas no supervisadas: MÈtodos de agrupamiento    20 01   Di s p onible en  http://wwwetsi2.ugr.es:8080/depar/ccia/RF0708/material.htm   G. O. Arbelaitz, R. J. Muquerza, çAportaciones a la clasificaciÛn no supervisada y a su validaciÛn. AplicaciÛn a la seguridad inform·tica,é. Tesis doctoral, Universidad del PaÌs Vasco, Facultad de Inform·tica, 2010  D. A. Ingaramo, M. L. Errecalde, and P. Rosso, çMedidas internas y externas en el agrupamiento de res˙menes cientÌficos de dominios reducidos,é in Procesamiento de Lenguaje Natural vol. XXXIX 2007, pp. 55-62  J. Lewis, M. Ackerman, and V. De Sa, çHuman cluster evaluation and formal quality measures,é in Proc. 34th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society, 2012  A. B. Garay, R. P. Escarcina, and Y. T. Valdivia, çValidaciÛn de clusters usando IEKA y SL-SOM  M. Santib·Òez, R. M. Valdovinos E. RendÛn, R. Alejo, and J. R Marcial-Romero, çOptimizaciÛn de Recurso para el Tratamiento de Grandes Vol˙menes de Datos,é in Research in Computing Science Avances en Inteligencia Artificial vol 2013, pp. 15-24  
    vol 
clustering online 62 
Furthermore, in the datasets which only knows the number of groups, the Calinski-Harabazs and Davies-Boulin index with the real number of groups can be used to determine which the largest quality clustering, thus is finding the corresponding \003 value for that clustering. From both index have a growing trend, the clustering analysis based on both allows finding more reliable clustering of better quality As for the datasets that lack of any information describing the actual grouping, both indexes are used again to define the quality VI C ONCLUSIONS  In this article we checked some of the most used cluster validation index to determine the clustering quality. This quality was analyzed based on the result of all the indexes, to know its quality and finally which of them quantifies the actual, being the F-measure the one that offers the most reliable results. The results presented correspond to those obtained from the clustering step of the methodology presented in [2 s o  d etai le d p r es en ta ti on an d an aly s is   The clustering result is quite close to the expected and through this analysis can be seen that for these datasets an optimal \003 value can be specified as follows: 0.1 < \003 <= 0.2 Consequently, for determining the quality of clustering in datasets with information about the real grouping, the Fmeasure gives the clearest value about the quality of the clustering result. As seen in the case of datasets with lack of information no index is the best, and then both are used The Future lines for this issue are oriented to the proposal to implement different validation index and analyze their behavior, as well as work with other datasets to parse through the index an optimal \003 value, and compare if is the same as in this paper A CKNOWLEDGMENT  We would like to thank to the Instituto TecnolÛgico de Toluca and also acknowledge the PROMEP/103.5/12/4783 project for their financial support R EFERENCES  1 
                      
193 
193 


user is reached a trigger is red Our platform supports this kind of approaches being build as a framework for developers not as a stand alone application like Google Now or Microsoft On X  VI C ONCLUSIONS AND F URTHER W ORK With the advent of mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets that contain various types of sensors like GPS compass microphone camera proximity sensors etc the shape of context-aware or pervasive systems changed Previously context was only collected from static sensor networks where each sensor had a well-deìned purpose and the format of the data returned was well-known in advance and could not change regardless of any factors Nowadays mobile devices are equipped with multimodal sensing capabilities and the sensor networks have a much more dynamic behavior due to the high levels of mobility and heterogeneity Context Aware Framework is designed to support such requirements In a pervasive world where the environment is saturated with all kinds of sensors and networking capabilities support is needed for dynamic discovery of and efìcient access to context sources of information Such requirements are mediated in our case through a dedicated context management layer which is responsible for discovering and exchanging context information We presented the context storage system architecture for data management that includes an additional set of components This supports the mapping between metainformation describing the context and the actual context data stored in BlobSeer data caching and handling requests coming from a distinct set of users or city area and connecting the metadata management layer to context-aware applications In addition we presented a layer that is responsible for creating and accessing the metadata information that describes the context data schema used by a particular application and allows the mobile application to write retrieve and store context data It is also responsible for supporting userês mobility The components support several requirements userês mobility and provisioning of data according to his/her locality real-time guarantees for data provisioning allow efìcient access to the data in terms of speed of access as well as support for complex queries discovery and registration of data sources and access to data using different granularities and scalability VII A CNOWLEDGMENT The research presented in this paper was supported by the INRIA Associated Team DataCloud@work This work was also partially supported by project ERRIC Empowering Romanian Research on Intelligent Information Technologies/FP7REGPOT-2010-1 ID 264207 and by the Sectoral Operational Programme Human Resources Development 20072013 of the Romanian Ministry of Labour Family and Social Protection through the Financial Agreement POSDRU/89/1.5/S/62557 The authors would like to thank Luc Bouge and the entire KerData team The experiments presented in this paper were carried out using the Grid5000/ALADDIN-G5K experimental testbed an initiative of the French Ministry of Research through the ACI GRID incentive action INRIA CNRS RENATER and other contributing partners see http://www.grid5000.fr R EFERENCES  Google no w  Accessed February 9th 2013  Gridê5000 Accessed February 9th 2013  Microsoft onX Accessed February 9th 2013  San francisco taxi dataset http://crawdad.cs.dartmouth.edu/meta.php name=epî/mobility   A M Aly  A Sallam B M Gnanasekaran L.-V  Nguyen-Dinh W G Aref M Ouzzani and A Ghafoor M3 Stream processing on main-memory mapreduce In 
  
Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE 28th International Conference on Data Engineering Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on P2P Parallel Grid Cloud and Internet Computing ACM Trans Database Syst Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Cloud and Service Computing Proceedings of the 2009 EDBT/ICDT Workshops 
 ICDE 12 pages 1253 1256 Washington DC USA 2012 IEEE Computer Society  C Dobre Capim A platform for conte xt-a w are computing In  3PGCIC 11 pages 266Ö272 Washington DC USA 2011 IEEE Computer Society  T  M Ghanem A K Elmagarmid P A Larson and W  G Aref Supporting views in data stream management systems  35\(1 Feb 2008  R Hecht and S Jablonski Nosql e v aluation A use case oriented surv e y  In  CSC 11 pages 336Ö341 Washington DC USA 2011 IEEE Computer Society  S L Kiani A Anjum M Knappme yer  N Bessis and N Antonopoulos Federated broker system for pervasive context provisioning 2012  B Nicolae G Antoniu and L Boug  e Blobseer how to enable efìcient versioning for large object storage under heavy access concurrency In  EDBT/ICDT 09 pages 18Ö25 New York NY USA 2009 ACM  D P  P  Pïïkknen Report on scalability of database technologies for entertainment services http://virtual.vtt.ì/virtual nextmedia/Deliverables-2011/D1.2.3.3 MUMUMESE Report 20on%20Scalability%20of%20database%20technologies%20for 20entertainment%20services.pdf  2012 
100 
100 


  9  A X    S C H EM A TI C E S U M M A R Y O F M A JO R H ELI O LI B I N TER F A C ES     H ELI O LI B ES  S Y N TA C TI C  I N TER F A C ES   enum  DataType     OBJECT  DOUBLE  S TRING  TIME  VECTORIJK    Indexable R   R get int  index   public  int  size    DataArray<T extends  Indexable<T     DataIdentity getIdentity   DataType getType   MaplikeMetadata getMetadata    Table   String getName   IMaplikeMetada ta getTableMetadata   int  getNumCols   DataArray<?> getColumn int  i     TableWithTime extends  Table     int  getTimeArrayIndexForColumn int  dataColIndex    TableWithDetailedTime extends  TableWithTime     int  getMeasurementWindowColIndex int  data ColIndex   int  getExposureTimeColIndex int  dataColIndex   ITimeSystem<?> getTimeSystem     MagneticFieldData extends  TableWithDetailedTime     MagColIndices getMagColIndices   MagDatasetContentInfo getDatasetContentInfo    


  10  RE P RE S E NT AT I V E  H B S NCE C  IN T E R F A C E S   MA G N E T I C  F I E L D  D A T A   MagDatasetContentInfo extends  CoordFrameSrc     boolean  hasBTotal   boolean  hasBTotalUncertainty   boolean  hasBVector\(ICoordFrame frame   boolean  hasBVectorUncertainties\(ICoordFrame fram e   String getDataSetName    MagneticFieldData extends  TableWithDetailedTime     MagColIndices getMagColIndices   MagDatasetContentInfo getDatasetContentInfo     EN ERG ET I C  PART I C L E D AT A   PChannelInfo     String getParameterKey   String get Name   String getDescription   Set<IParticleCalibration> getCalibrations   IParticleSpecies getSpecies   IParticleChannelBounds getBounds   IFOVKey getFOVKey    ParticleInfoSrc extends  ICoordFrameSrc     int  getNumChannels   IPCh annelInfo getChannelInfo int  chnlIdx   String getDataName   ISpectralInfo getSpectralInfo    ParticleData extends  TableWithDetailedTime, ParticleInfoSrc     int  getValueColumnIndexForChannel int  channelIndex, ParticleCalibration cal   int  getU ncertColumnIndexForChannel int  channelIndex, ParticleCalibration cal  int  getParticleFlowDirectionVec torIJKIndex int  channelIndex, ICoordFrame coordFrame     EVEN T  D AT A h a s  n o  i n t e r f a c e   i t  s  j u s t  a n d   I n f o   i n t e r f a c e  a d d e d  t o  a  T a b l e W i t h T i m e  


  11   CONDUIT  I n te r fac e s   Timestamp  public  abstract  boolean  hasTimestamp  public  abstract  TSEpoch getEpoch  boolean  hasMET  public  abstract  MET getMET    PacketHeader extends  Timestamp  int  offsetBytesToCargo   void  movePositionToStartOfNextPacket\(ByteBuff er inputBuffer   int  cargoLength    TelemetryRecord extends  Timestamp   int  getNumFields   Field getField int  fieldNum   Field getField\(String fieldName      TelemetryRecordSource   int  getNumberOfRecords   TelemetryRecord getTelemetryRecord int  recordNum   Object getPacketType this is usually an instrument specific enum  value    Subpacket extends  Comparable<Subpacket>,TelemetryRecordSource   IPacketHeader getIPacketHeader       


   12 The scenario tests are designed through a process o f grouping the FM requirements into sequences. The pr ocess is performed using a requirements-to-test allocatio n matrix in which each requirement is assigned to a test or group of tests The selection of which tests form the incomp ressible test suite is performed through consultation and it eration of the core test list with the systems engineering tea m Following the allocation of all requirements to the  various tests, individual test plans are developed that inc lude a set of starting conditions and high-level outline of test and verification activities. Each test plan includes th e following information test name document number tier desig nation test objective, requirements fully or partially ver ified by the test, minimum spacecraft component set required to run the test, initial conditions for the test, required sup port, planning notes, and the high-level test outline   Figure 12 shows the activity flow for each scenario  test during the system-level test phase  Following the development of the system-level verification and te st plan individual test procedures are generated for each t est. A test procedure is a configuration managed document that describes the detailed information necessary to run  the test on the spacecraft and the list of steps taken to ex ecute the test. The test procedure is also the as-run documen t used by the test conductor or FM lead engineer to document the major milestones of the test When possible the te st procedure will be dry run on the high-fidelity simu lators to identify and correct procedural errors. The test pr ocedure is then executed on the observatory during I&T \(eventu ally the procedure is run on both spacecraft Any deviation s from the test procedure are documented within the test p rocedure as red lines \(i.e., permanent changes to the test p rocedure\ or black lines i.e changes for the current procedur e If the test fails due to test procedure errors the test p rocedure is corrected and the process is repeated However if the test fails due to an implementation error in flight hard ware flight software or autonomy a formal discrepancy is documented in the Anomaly/Problem Failure Reporting  APFR system any changes or corrections to autono my flight software, or hardware are implemented and th e test is re-run until the anomaly is resolved and the test r uns to successful completion After the completion of each  test a review of the test procedure as-run information a nd spacecraft data is performed by a member of the FM team Following the review of the test data, the FM lead engineer signs the test procedure confirming that the test w as run and the review accurately described the success or fail ure of the test  n	\r\n\n  n        n   n\r     n r\r\n\r r\n\r r\r\n\r    0/-1  23  n  4      Figure 12:  Fault Protection System-Level Test Proc ess Flow 4  CONCLUSION The RBSP spacecraft are designed to operate for mul tiple years in the extreme environment of the Earthís rad iation belts.  To facilitate this mission, a robust fault management system is integrated into the system architecture f rom the earliest stages of the design.  This fault manageme nt system was rigorously tested during I&T and the results o f this testing show that the RBSP spacecraft are protected against on-orbit fault conditions and therefore have a hig h probability of meeting the mission objectives  The  RBSP fault management design, implementation and test ap proach demonstrate that robust fault-tolerant designs are  achievable for complex systems operating in harsh environments even for systems with only limited or  selective redundancy 5  REFERENCES  1  J   S t r a t t o n  a n d  N   F o x   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P robes RBSP\ Mission Overview Proc. of the 2012 IEEE Aerospace Conf. Vol. 027 No. xxx Big Sky, Montana USA, March 2012. The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723   2  K   K i r b y  e t  a l   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P r o b e s   R B SP Spacecraft and impact of environment on observatory  design Proc. of the 2012  IEEE Aerospace Conf.,Vol  027 No. 1759 Big Sky, Montana, USA, March 2012 The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723  


WeD6 \226 Queuing Theory Visitor Center   Chair Starobinski, David Boston University On the Channel-Sensitive Delay Behavior of LIFO-Backpressure 715  Si, Wei Boston University  Starobinski, David Boston University  Transient Flow Level Models for In terference-Coupled Cellular Networks 723  326hmann, David Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fehske, Albrecht Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fettweis, Gerhard Technische Universit\344t Dresden  When do Redundant Requests Reduce Latency 731  Shah, Nihar B University of California, Berkeley  Lee, Kangwook University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  Scheduling in Cooperative Cognitive Radio Networks 739  Das, Dibakar Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Abouzeid, Alhussein A Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Codreanu, Marian University of Oulu  Batch Job Scheduling for Reducing Water Footprints in Data Center 747  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Bits through Bufferless Queues 755  Tavan, Mehrnaz Rutgers University  Yates, Roy D Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  ThA1 \226 Information-Theoretic Security Library   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois Networked Cyber-Physical Systems: Interdep endence, Resilience and Information Exchange 763  Zhu, Quanyan Princeton University  Bushnell, Linda University of Washington  On the Secure Interference Channel 770  Somekh-Baruch, Anelia Bar-Ilan University  How Many Antennas does a Cooperative Jammer Need for Achieving the Degrees of Freedom of Multiple Antenna Gaussian Channels in the Presence of an Eavesdropper 774  Nafea, Mohamed Pennsylvania State University  Yener, Aylin Pennsylvania State University  Distributed Consensus with Byzantine Adversaries n/a  Liu, Xiangyang University of Maryland  Gao, Peixin University of Maryland  Baras, John University of Maryland  


Why Cyber-Insurance Contracts Fail to Reflect Cyber-Risks 781  Schwartz, Galina University of California, Berkeley  Shetty, Nikhil Insieme Networks  Walrand, Jean University of California, Berkeley  Performance-Aware IP Address Randomi zation in Moving Target Defense n/a  Clark, Andrew University of Washington  Sun, Kun George Mason University  Poovendran, Radha University of Washington  ThA2 \226 Distributed Stor age: Theory and Practice Solarium   Chair Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois Explicit Maximally Recoverable Codes with Locality n/a  Gopalan, Parikshit Microsoft Research  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  Jenkins, Bob Microsoft Research  Yekhanin, Sergey Microsoft Research  On the Interior Points of the Storage-Repa ir Bandwidth Tradeoff of Regenerating Codes 788  Sasidharan, Birenjith Indian Institute of Science  Kumar, P. Vijay Indian Institute of Science  A Family of Locally Recoverable Codes n/a  Tamo, Itzhak University of Maryland  Barg, Alexander University of Maryland  Locality and Availability in Distributed Storage n/a  Rawat, Ankit Singh University of Texas, Austin  Papailiopoulos, Dimitris University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Vishwanath, Sriram University of Texas, Austin  Data Secrecy in Distributed Storage Systems under Exact Repair n/a  El Rouayheb, Salim Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago  Goparaju, Sreechakra Princeton University  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Calderbank, A. Robert Duke University  LRC Erasure Coding in Windows Storage: From Cloud to Desktop n/a  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  ThA3 \226 Information Theory II Butternut   Chair  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University Matroid Bounds on the Region of Entropic Vectors 796  Li, Congduan Drexel University  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University  Weber, Steven Drexel University  


Groups and Information Inequalities in 5 Variables 804  Markin, Nadya Nanyang Technological University  Thomas, Eldho Nanyang Technological University  Oggier, Fr\351d\351rique Nanyang Technological University  Superadditivity of Quantum Channel Coding Rate with Finite Blocklength Quantum Measurements 810  Chung, Hye Won Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Zheng, Lizhong Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Information Rates in the Optica l Nonlinear Phase Noise Channel 818  Dar, Ronen Tel Aviv University  Shtaif, Mark Tel Aviv University  Feder, Meir Tel Aviv University  An Outer Bound of the Capacity Re gion of Biometric Systems under Keys, Secrets, and Privacy Requirements 824  Lai, Po-Hsiang Washington University in Saint Louis  O'Sullivan, Joseph A Washington University in Saint Louis  Generalized Cut-Set Bounds for Broadcast Networks 832  Salimi, Amir Texas A&M University  Liu, Tie Texas A&M University  Cui, Shuguang Texas A&M University  ThA4 \226 Sensor Networks Pine   Chair Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis How to Sleep, Control and Transfer Data in an Energy Constrained Wireless Sensor Network 839  Venkateswaran, Vijay Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Kennedy, Irwin O Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Network Observability and Localization of the So urce of Diffusion based on a Subset of Nodes 847  Zejnilovic, Sabina Carnegie Mellon University  Gomes, Jo\343o Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  The Central Detection Officer Problem: SALS A Detector and Performance Guarantees 853  Li, Xiao University of California, Davis  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  A New Graph Model with Random Edge Values: Connectivity and Diameter 861  La, Richard J University of Maryland, College Park  Kabkab, Maya University of Maryland, College Park  


ThA5 \226 Source Coding Lower Level   Chair Cohen, Asaf Ben-Gurion University Correlated Sources with Actions 869  Sabag, Oron Ben Gurion University  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University  Cohen, Asaf Ben Gurion University  Non-Asymptotic Bounds on Fixed Leng th Source Coding for Markov Chains 875  Hayashi, Masahito Nagoya University  Watanabe, Shun University of Tokushima  Efficient Similarity Queri es via Lossy Compression 883  Ochoa, Idoia Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Results on the Optimal Memory-Assisted Univer sal Compression Performance for Mixture Sources 890  Beirami, Ahmad Georgia Institute of Technology  Sardari, Mohsen Georgia Institute of Technology  Fekri, Faramarz Georgia Institute of Technology  Interactive Function Computation with Reconstruction Constraints 896  Ebrahim Rezagah, Farideh Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Erkip, Elza Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Distortion Rate Function of Sub-Nyquist Sa mpled Gaussian Sources Corrupted by Noise 901  Kipnis, Alon Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea J Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Eldar, Yonina C Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  ThB1 \226 Dynamic Games Library   Chair Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan Joint Control of Transmission Power and Channel Switching against Adaptive Jamming 909  Wang, Qingsi University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  Characterization and Computation of Loca l Nash Equilibria in Continuous Games 917  Ratliff, Lillian J University of California, Berkeley  Burden, Samuel A University of California, Berkeley  Sastry, S. Shankar University of California, Berkeley  Multiagent Inverse Reinforcement Learni ng for Zero-Sum Stochastic Games n/a  Beling, Peter University of Virginia  Cogill, Randy University of Virginia  Lin, Xiaomin University of Virginia  A Dynamic VCG Mechanism for Random Allocation Spaces 925  Balandat, Maximilian University of California, Berkeley  Tomlin, Claire J University of California, Berkeley  


Nonstationary Resource Sharing with Imperfect Binary Feedback An Optimal Design Framework for Cost Minimization 932  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  ThB2 \226 Topics in Information Theory III Solarium   Chair Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  De Novo RNA Shotgun Sequencing: Fundamental Limits n/a  Kannan, Sreeram University of Illinois  Pachter, Lior University of California, Berkeley  Tse, David University of California, Berkeley  Queue Length as an Implicit Communication Channel 940  Park, Se Yong University of California, Berkeley  Sahai, Anant University of California, Berkeley  Polytope Codes for Large-Alphabet Channels 948  Fan, Xiaoqing Cornell University  Wagner, Aaron B Cornell University  Ahmed, Ebad LSI Corporation  Data-Driven Management of Infrastructure Networks n/a  Rajagopal, Ram Stanford University A Derivation of the Asymptotic Random-Coding Prefactor 956  Scarlett, Jonathan University of Cambridge  Martinez, Alfonso Universitat Pompeu Fabra  Guill\351n i F\340bregas, Albert ICREA and Universitat Pompeu Fabra  ThB3 \226 Discrete Event Systems Butternut   Chair  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University On Exploiting Algebraic Structure in Control of Finite State Machines 962  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University  A Bridge between Decentralized and Coordination Control 966  Komenda, Jan Czech Academy of Sciences  Masopust, Tom\341\232 Czech Academy of Sciences  A Model Checking Framework for Linear Time Invariant Switching Systems using Structural Systems Analysis 973  Ramos, Guilherme Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Pequito, S\351rgio Carnegie Mellon University and Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Aguiar, A. Pedro University of Porto  Ramos, Jaime Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Kar, Soummya Carnegie Mellon University  


Robust Supervisory Control of Ne tworked Discrete Event Systems 981  Wang, Fei Tongji University  Shu, Shaolong Tongji University  Lin, Feng Wayne State University  Probability Bounds for False Alarm Anal ysis of Fault Detection Systems 989  Hu, Bin University of Minnesota  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  ThB4 \226 Network Inference Pine   Chair Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Organizer\(s Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin Robust Structure Estimation of M aximum Causal Entropy Processes 996  Ziebart, Brian D University of Illinois, Chicago  The Squared-Error of Generalized LASSO: A Precise Analysis 1002  Oymak, Samet California Institute of Technology  Thrampoulidis, Christos California Institute of Technology  Hassibi, Babak California Institute of Technology  Localized Minimax Complexity of Stochastic Convex Optimization n/a  Zhu, Yuancheng University of Chicago  Lafferty, John University of Chicago  Non-Convex Inference via Alternatin g Minimization: Provable Guarantees n/a  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Loop Calculus and Bootstrap-Belief Propagatio n for Perfect Matchings on Arbitrary Graphs n/a  Chertkov, Michael Los Alamos National Laboratory  Gelfand, Andrew University of California, Irvine  Shin, Jinwoo Massachusetts Institute of Technology  ThB5 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems I Lower Level   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  A Rank Minimization Algorithm to Enhance Semidefinite Rel axations of Optimal Power Flow 1010  Louca, Raphael Cornell University  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  Bitar, Eilyan Cornell University  Power System Structure and Confidenti ality Preserving Transformation of Optimal Power Flow Model 102 1  Borden, Alexander R University of Wisconsin, Madison  Molzahn, Daniel K University of Michigan  Lesieutre, Bernard C University of Wisconsin, Madison  Ramanathan, Parmeswaran University of Wisconsin, Madison  


Incentive Design for Direct Load Control Programs 1029  Alizadeh, Mahnoosh University of California, Davis  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 1 n/a  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Pandzic, Hrvoje University of Washington  Qiu, Ting University of Washington  Wang, Yishen University of Washington  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 2 n/a  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Xue, Mengran University of Michigan  Almassalkhi, Mads Root3 Technologies Ltd  Felder, Jennifer University of Michigan  The Redistribution of Power Flow in Cascading Failures 1037  Lai, Chengdi California Institute of Technology  Low, Steven H California Institute of Technology  ThB6 \226 Multiuser Detecti on and Estimation Theory Visitor Center   Chair Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University Phase and Power Estimation for Per-Hop MultiUser Detection in Frequency-Hopping Systems 1045  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Royster, Thomas C MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Non-Coherent Multi-User Detection of DPSK Signals after Differential Demodulation 1052  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  The Incidence and Cross Methods for Efficient Radar Detection 1059  Fish, Alexander University of Sydney  Gurevich, Shamgar University of Wisconsin, Madison  Capacity Analysis of Uplink Multi-User SC-FDMA System with Frequency-Dependent I/Q Imbalance 1067  Ishaque, Aamir RWTH Aachen University  Sakulkar, Pranav RWTH Aachen University  Ascheid, Gerd RWTH Aachen University  Reliable Uncoded Communication in th e Underdetermined SIMO MAC with Low-Complexity Decoding 1 075  Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  


ThC1 \226 Networks, Ga mes and Algorithms III Library   Chair  Williams, Steven R University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Competitive Equilibrium in Electricity Markets wi th Heterogeneous users and Ramping Constraints n/a  Malekian, Azarakhsh Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Ozdaglar, Asu Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Wei, Ermin Massachusetts Institute of Technology  A Lyapunov Optimization Approach to Repeated Stochastic Games 1082  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  Road Traffic Networks: Optimal Transport and Incentives 1090  Mandayam, Chinmoy V Stanford University  Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  Online Stochastic Ad Allocation: Simu ltanenous and Bicriteria Approximations n/a  Mirrokni, Vahab Google Research  A Processor-Sharing Heuristic fo r Multipath Congestion Control n/a  Walton, Neil Stuart University of Amsterdam  Anselmi, Jonatha Basque Center for Applied Mathematics  D'Auria, Bernardo Universidad Carlos III de Madrid  ThC2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing I Solarium   Chair Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Asymptotic Optimality Results for Controlled Sequential Estimation 1098  Atia, George University of Central Florida  Aeron, Shuchin Tufts University  Even Symmetric Parallel Linear Determinis tic Interference Channels are Inseparable 1106  Mukherjee, Pritam University of Maryland  Tandon, Ravi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Ulukus, Sennur University of Maryland  Estimation Over the Collision Channel: Structural Results 1114  Vasconcelos, Marcos M University of Maryland  Martins, Nuno C University of Maryland  Physical Watermarking and Authenti cation in Cyber-Physical Systems n/a  Weerakkody, Sean Carnegie Mellon University  Mo, Yilin California Institute of Technology  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  


Distributed Linear Estimation of Dynamic Random Fields 1120  Das, Subhro Carnegie Mellon University  Moura, Jos\351 M.F Carnegie Mellon University  ThC3 \226 Active Learning, Search and Visual Recognition Butternut   Chair Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Co-Chair Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Working Title: Learning to Recognize Everything n/a  Berg, Alexander C University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill  Visual Attributes for Enhanced Human-Machine Communication 1126  Parikh, Devi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Active Learning of Linear Separators n/a  Balcan, Maria Florina Georgia Institute of Technology  Discriminative Value of Information for Structured Prediction n/a  Taskar, Ben University of Washington  Extrinsic Jensen\226Shannon Divergence and Noisy Bayesian Active Learnin\g 1128  Naghshvar, Mohammad University of California, San Diego  Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Chaudhuri, Kamalika University of California, San Diego  Universal Random Number Generators for Finite Memory Sources n/a  Seroussi, Gadiel Universidad de la Rep\372blica, Uruguay  Weinberger, Marcelo J Center for Science of Information  ThC4 \226 Information Theory III Pine   Chair Avestimehr, Salman Cornell University Approximate Capacity of the Two-User MI SO Broadcast Channel with Delayed CSIT 1136  Vahid, Alireza Cornell University  Maddah-ali, Mohammad Ali Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  K-User Symmetric MIMO Distributed Full-D uplex Network via Wireless Side-Channels 1144  Bai, Jingwen Rice University  Dick, Chris Xilinx, Inc  Sabharwal, Ashutosh Rice University  Degrees of Freedom Region for MIMO Interferen ce Channel with Limite d Receiver Cooperation 1152  Ashraphijuo, Mehdi Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  


Degrees of Freedom of the MIMO Rank-Def icient Interference Channel with Feedback 1159  Chae, Sung Ho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Suh, Changho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Chung, Sae-Young Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  On the Optimality of Trea ting Interference as Noise 1166  Geng, Chunhua University of California, Irvine  Naderializadeh, Navid Cornell University  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  Jafar, Syed A University of California, Irvine  Asymmetric Compute-and-Forward 1174  Ntranos, Vasilis University of Southern California  Cadambe, Viveck R Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Nazer, Bobak Boston University  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  ThC5 \226 Pricing and Contractive Mechanisms for Wireless Data Services Lower Level   Chair Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Smart Data Pricing for the Internet: Agenda & Research Directions 1182  Sen, Soumya University of Minnesota  Market Structures for Wirele ss Service with Shared Spectrum 1188  Berry, Randall Northwestern University  Honig, Michael Northwestern University  Subramanian, Vijay Northwestern University  Nguyen, Thanh Northwestern University  Vohra, Rakesh Northwestern University  Fostering Wireless Spectrum Sharing via Subsidization 1192  Yuksel, Murat University of Nevada, Reno  Quint, Thomas University of Nevada, Reno  Guvenc, Ismail Florida International University  Saad, Walid University of Miami  Kapucu, Naim University of Central Florida  Stable Real-Time Pricing and Sc heduling for Serving Opportunistic users with Deferrable Loads 1200  Dalkilic, Ozgur Ohio State University  Eryilmaz, Atilla Ohio State University  Lin, Xiaojun Purdue University  Implementing Sponsored Conten t in Wireless Data Networks 1208  Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  


ThC6 \226 Deletion Codes: Bounds and Applications Visitor Center   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dolecek, Lara University of Califo rnia, Los Angeles  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois A Practical Framework for Efficient File Synchronization 1213  Bitouz\351, Nicolas University of California, Los Angeles  Sala, Frederic University of California, Los Angeles  Tabatabaei Yazdi, S.M. Sadegh University of California, Los Angeles  Dolecek, Lara University of California, Los Angeles  An Improvement of the Deletion Channel Capacity Upper Bound 1221  Rahmati, Mojtaba Arizona State University  Duman, Tolga M Arizona State University and Bilkent University  On the Number of Subsequences Obtained via the Deletion Channel n/a  Yuvalal, Liron The Open University of Israel  Langberg, Michael State University of New York, Buffalo Efficient Interactive Algorithms for F ile Synchronization under General Edits 1226  Venkataramanan, Ramji University of Cambridge  Narasimha Swamy, Vasuki University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  ThD1 \226 Sparse Data Analysis Library   Chair Studer, Christoph Rice University Recovering Sparse Low-Rank Bloc ks in Tandem Mass Spectrometry n/a  Studer, Christoph Rice University  Pope, Graeme ETH Zurich  Navarro, Pedro Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz  Baraniuk, Richard Rice University  GROTESQUE: Noisy Group Testing \(Quick and Efficient 1234  Cai, Sheng The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Jahangoshahi, Mohammad Sharif University of Technology  Bakshi, Mayank Institute of Network Coding  Jaggi, Sidharth The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Compressed Sensing of Streaming Data 1242  Freris, Nikolaos M 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326\347al, Orhan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  A Fast Hadamard Transform for Signals with Sub-Linear Sparsity 1250  Scheibler, Robin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Haghighatshoar, Saeid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  


Sample-Optimal Average-Case Sparse Fo urier Transform in Two Dimensions 1258  Ghazi, Badih Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Hassanieh, Haitham Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Indyk, Piotr Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Katabi, Dina Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Price, Eric Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Shi, Lixin Massachusetts Institute of Technology Guarantees of Total Variation Mi nimization for Signal Recovery 1266  Cai, Jian-Feng University of Iowa  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  ThD2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing II Solarium   Chair Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Adaptive Stochastic Convex Optimization Over Networks 1272  Towfic, Zaid J University of California, Los Angeles  Sayed, Ali H University of California, Los Angeles  A Routing Problem in a Simple Queueing Syst em with Non-Classical Information Structure 1278  Ouyang, Yi University of Michigan  Teneketzis, Demosthenis University of Michigan  On the Necessary Conditions for Distributed Observability n/a  Doostmohammadian, Mohammadreza Tufts University  Khan, Usman A Tufts University  Sequential Supervised Learning n/a  Wang, Joseph Boston University  Trapeznikov, Kirill Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Fusion Center Feedback for Quasi-Decentr alized Estimation in Sensor Networks 1285  Michelusi, Nicol\362 University of Southern California  Mitra, Urbashi University of Southern California  ThD3 \226 Information Theory IV Butternut   Chair Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Inst. of Tech, Madras The Gaussian Two-Way Diamond Channel 1292  V, Prathyusha Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Thangaraj, Andrew Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Capacity to within a Constant Gap fo r a Class of Interference Relay Channels 1300  Bassi, Germ\341n Sup\351lec  Piantanida, Pablo Sup\351lec  Yang, Sheng Sup\351lec  


The State-Dependent Broadcast Channel with Cooperation 1307  Dikstein, Lior Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Steinberg, Yossef Technion - Israel Institute of Technology An Analysis of the Joint Compute-and-Forward Decoder for the Binary-Input Two-Way Relay Channel 1314  Hern, Brett Texas A&M University  Narayanan, Krishna Texas A&M University  The Generalized Degrees of Freedom of the Int erference Relay Channel with Strong Interference 1321  Gherekhloo, Soheyl Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Chaaban, Anas Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Sezgin, Aydin Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Optimal Jamming Over Additive No ise: Vector Source-Channel Case 1329  Akyol, Emrah University of California, Santa Barbara  Rose, Kenneth University of California, Santa Barbara  ThD4 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems II Pine   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Distributed Stopping in Average Consensus via Event-Triggered Strategies 1336  Manitara, Nicolaos University of Cyprus  Hadjicostis, Christoforos N University of Cyprus  Stochastic Models and Control fo r Electrical Power Line Temperature 1344  Bienstock, Daniel Columbia University  Blanchet, Jose Columbia University  Li, Juan Columbia University  Applicability of Topology Control Algorit hms \(TCA\e Power System 1349  Goldis, Evgeniy A Boston University  Li, Xiaoguang Boston University  Caramanis, Michael C Boston University  Keshavamurthy, Bhavana PJM  Patel, Mahendra PJM  Rudkevich, Aleksandr M Newton Energy Group Ruiz, Pablo A  Charles River Associates Retail Pricing for Stochastic Demand with Unknown Parameters An Online Machine Learning Approach 1353  Jia, Liyan Cornell University  Zhao, Qing University of California, Davis  Tong, Lang Cornell University  Virtual Oscillator Control for Voltage Source Inverters 1359  Dhople, Sairaj V University of Minnesota  Johnson, Brian B National Renewable Energy Laboratory  Hamadeh, Abdullah O Rutgers University  


ThD5 \226 Networks, Gam es and Algorithms IV Lower Level   Chair Lu, Yi University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Contagion and Observability in Security Domains 1364  Bachrach, Yoram Microsoft Research Cambridge Draief, Moez Imperial College  Goyal, Sanjeev University of Cambridge  Targeted Matrix Completion n a  Ruchansky, Natali Boston University  Crovella, Mark Boston University  Terzi, Evimaria Boston University  Random Matrix Theory Approach to Spectral Clustering n/a  Lelarge, Marc INRIA and \311cole Normale Sup\351rieure Optimal Distributed Scheduling in Wirele ss Networks under SINR Interference Model 1372  Chaporkar, P Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai  Proutiere, A KTH Royal Institute of Technology  Load Balancing with Deadlines and Graph Constraints n/a  Moharir, Sharayu Arun University of Texas, Austin  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Shakkottai, Sanjay University of Texas, Austin  Curbing Delays in Datacenters Need Time to Save Time n/a  Alizadeh Attar, Mohammadreza Insieme Networks  Katti, Sachin Stanford University Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  ThD6 \226 Topics in Cryptography Vistior Center   Chair Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duursma, Iwan University of Illinois  Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois How to Encrypt Software  n/a  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles  On the Cost of Information-Theoretic Cryptography n/a  Ishai, Yuval Technion - Israel Institute of Technology From Unprovability to Environmentally Friendly Protocols n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Lin, Huijia Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Boston University  Pass, Rafael Cornell University  Cryptography, Causality, and Coding n/a  Smith, Adam Pennsylvania State University  


Obfuscation for Evasive Functions n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Bitansky, Nir Tel Aviv University  Barak, Boaz Microsoft Research  Kalai, Yael Microsoft Research  Paneth, Boaz Microsoft Research  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles FrPP - Plenary Talk:  C odes for the Storage Cloud Library   Chair Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois Codes for the Storage Cloud n a  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  FrA1 \226 Wireless Communications II   Chair Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University Small Cell Networks: Speed based Power Allocation 1380  Kavitha, Veeraruna Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Capdevielle, Veronique Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Gupta, Manu K Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Distributed Power Control in Femto Ce lls using Bayesian Density Tracking 1388  Hanif, Ahmed Farhan Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Tembine, Hamidou Sup\351lec  Assaad, Mohamad Sup\351lec  Zeghlache, Djamal Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Renewable Energy Scheduling for Fading Ch annels with Maximum Power Constraint 1394  Wang, Zhe Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  Analysis and Design of Spectrum Sh aring in Cognitive Femtocell Networks 1401  Zhou, Xiangwei Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Al-Hraishawi, Hayder Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Jia, Yupeng National Instruments  Channel-Adaptive Spectrum Detection and Sensin g Strategy for Cognitive Radio Ad Hoc Networks 1408  Lu, Yuan North Carolina State University  Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University  Quantized Auction Schemes for Secondary Spectrum Markets 1415  Palguna, Deepan Purdue University  Love,  David J Purdue University  Pollak, Ilya Purdue University  Performance Analysis of Coexisting Secondary users in Heterogeneous Cognitive Radio Network 1422  Li, Xiaohua State University of New York, Binghamton  Xiong, Chengyu State University of New York, Binghamton  


FrA2 \226 Statistical Signal Processing Solarium   Chair  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University Nearly Optimal Sample Size in Hypothesis Testing for High-Dim ensional Regression 1427  Javanmard, Adel Stanford University  Montanari, Andrea Stanford University  Distributed Online Big Data Classifi cation using Context Information 1435  Tekin, Cem University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Compressed Hypothesis Testing: To Mix or Not to Mix 1443  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  Lai, Lifeng Worcester Polytechnic Institute  Sparse Signal Recovery under Poisson Statistics 1450  Motamedvaziri, Delaram Boston University  Rohban, Mohammad H Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Efficient Probabilistic Group Testing based on Traitor Tracing 1458  Laarhoven, Thijs Eindhoven University of Technology  Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs via Convex Relaxation n/a  Chandrasekaran, Venkat California Institute of Technology  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Time-Variant Regularization in Affine Projection Algorithms 1466  Ba, Amadou IBM Research  McKenna, Sean IBM Research  Cloud K-SVD: Computing Data-Adaptive Representations in the Cloud 1474  Raja, Haroon Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  FrA3 \226 Information Aggregation Over Social Networks Butternut   Chair Hassanzadeh, Farzad University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology The Maximum Likelihood Approach to Voting on Social Networks 1482  Conitzer, Vincent Duke University  Building Consensus via Iterative Voting n/a  Farnoud \(Hassanzadeh California Institute of Technology  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology  Touri, Behrouz Georgia Institute of Technology Bruck, Jehoshua California Institute of Technology  CP-Nets with Indifference  1488  Allen, Thomas E University of Kentucky  


Computing Parametric Rankin g Models via Rank-Breaking n/a  Azari Soufiani, Hossein Harvard University  Parkes, David Harvard University  Xia, Lirong Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  On the Dynamics of Influence Networks via Reflected Appraisal n/a  Bullo, Francesco University of California, Santa Barbara Social Group Utility Maximization Game with Applications in Mobile Social Networks 1496  Gong, Xiaowen Arizona State University  Chen, Xu Arizona State University  Zhang, Junshan Arizona State University  Credibility Optimization and Power Co ntrol for Secure Mobile Crowdsourcing 1501  Ahmed, Kishwar Florida International University  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Turnewitsch, Vance Marietta College  Vasilakos, Athanasios V National Technical University of Athens  Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network 1509  Liu, Yang University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  FrA4 \226 Network Coding Pine   Chair Dimakis, Alex University of Southern California Secure Network Coding with Erasures and Feedback 1517  Czap, L\341szl\363 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Prabhakaran, Vinod M Tata Institute of Fundamental Research  Diggavi, Suhas University of California, Los Angeles  Index Coding Problem with Side Information Repositories 1525  Shanmugam, Karthikeyan University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alexandros G University of Texas, Austin  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  Complexity and Rate-Distortion Tradeoff via Successive Refinement 1531  No, Albert Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  On a Capacity Equivalence Between Mult iple Multicast and Multiple Unicast 1537  Wong, M.F California Institute of Technology  Langberg, M State University of New York, Buffalo Effros, M California Institute of Technology  On the Capacity of Sum-Networks 1545  Rai, Brijesh Kumar Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  Das, Niladri Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  


Duality Codes and the Integral ity Gap Bound for Index Coding 1553  Yu, Hao University of Southern California  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  On the Structure of Approximately Optimal Schedules for Half-Duplex Diamond Networks 1561  Brahma, Siddhartha 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326zg\374r, Ayfer Stanford University  FrA5 \226 Topology and Control Lower Level   Chair Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Co-Chair Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois Double Bracket Flows, Toda Flows and Rigid Body Toda 1567  Bloch, Anthony M University of Michigan  Gay-Balmaz, Fran\347ois 311cole Normale Sup\351rieure  Ratiu, Tudor S 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Topological Obstructions to Dist ributed Feedback Stabilization 1573  Mansouri, Abdol-Reza Queen's University  Contact Geometry of Optimal Control Problems n/a  Ohsawa, Tomoki University of Michigan, Dearborn  Equivariant Morse Theory for Formation Control 1576  Helmke, Uwe University of W\374rzburg  Anderson, Brian D.O Australian National University  Towards Discrete Geometric Boundary Co ntrol of Lagrangian Field Theories n/a  Leok, Melvin University of California, San Diego  Structure and Geometry of Minimum-Tim e Trajectories for Planar Rigid Bodies 1584  Futuna, Andrei A Dartmouth College  Wang, Weifu Dartmouth College  Lyu, Yu-Han Dartmouth College  Balkcom, Devin Dartmouth College  Real and Apparent Synchronization n/a  Brockett, Roger Harvard University  Rauch and Bonnet-Myers Type Comparison Theorems in Sub-Riemannian Geometry n/a  Zelenko, Igor Texas A&M University  


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


