Security A Big Question for Big Data Roger Schell  University of Southern California, USA Abstract Big data implies performing computation and database operations for massive amounts of data, remotely from the data ownerís enterprise. Since a key value proposition of big data is access to data from multiple and diverse domains, security and privacy will play a very important role in big data research and technology. The limitations of standard IT security practices are well-known, making the ability of attackers to use software subversion to insert malicious software into applications and operating systems a serious and growing threat whose adverse impact is intensified by big data. So a big question is what security and privacy technology is adequate for controlled assured sharing for efficient direct access to big data. Making effective use of big data requires ac cess from any domain to data in that domain, or any other domain it is authorized to access. Several decades of trusted systems developments have produced a rich set of proven concepts for verifiable protection to substantially cope with determined adversaries, but this technology has largely been marginalized as ìoverkillî and vendors do not widely offer it. This talk will discuss pivotal choices for big data to leverage this mature security and privacy technology, while identifying remaining research challenges Biography Dr. Roger R. Schell recently joined USC/ISI supporting their Masters of Cyber Security degree program He is internationally recognized for originating several key modern security design and evaluation techniques, and he holds patents in cryptography, authentication and trusted workstation. For more than decade he has been co-founder and President of Aesec Corporation, a start-up company providing verifiably secure platforms. Previously Dr. Schell was co-founder and vice president for Gemini Computers, Inc., where he directed development of their highly secure \(what NSA called ìClass A1 commercial product, the Gemini Multiprocessing S ecure Operating System \(GEMSOS\e was also the founding Deputy Director of NSAís National Computer Security Center. He has been referred to as the father" of the Trusted Computer Sy stem Evaluation Criteria \(the "Orang e Book"\. Schell is a retired USAF Colonel. He received a Ph.D. in Computer Sc ience from the MIT, an M.S.E.E. from Washington State, and a B.S.E.E. from Montana State. The NIST and NSA have recognized Dr. Schell with the National Computer System Secur ity Award. In 2012 he was inducted into the inaugural class of the National Cyber Security Hall of Fame 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data 978-1-4799-1293-3/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 5 


in subsequent steps. This enables a process of çlearning via making 
A Hadoop B HBase C OpenTSDB D R and RHIPE 
project investigated machine learning and ubiquitous computing algorithms to support intelligent way finding systems based on travel patterns. It included modules to create user profiles, transportation plan learner and significant place identifier to predict likely destinations and detect unusual variations. MIT Intelligent Home [14 p r es ente d a p r e d ic ti v e  framework for location-aware resource optimization in smart homes. The Neural Network House [5 f r o m th e Univ e r si ty of  Colorado based on neural nets, focused upon providing adaptive control of home environm ents to anticipate needs of its inhabitants Although there have been major contributions towards analyzing data from smart homes, they remain a lab-based initiative. The use of traditional RDBMS solutions for storage and processing, constrains their practical applicability and scalability. In a real world scenario, sensor data from smart homes would generate enormous and continuous streams of data beyond the capabilities of existing data management solutions. Further the research focus was more towards improvement of services offered through smart homes, rather than about preventive care where data from sensors can provide insights about health/lifestyle anomalies. Our work addresses a complete differen t dimension of establishing preventive care through a data intensive solution. The goal is to create an analytical solution for privacy preserving data analytics. We propose a framework for securely collecting and storing sensor time-series data and a platform for statistical analysis. Analyzing movement data of a household to recognize behavioral patterns, detect incidents and realize syndromes at early stages can enab le preventive care. In this respect, our work is novel and different from existing research where opportunities for preventive care through smart homes utilizing new No-SQL based solutions is validated III T ECHNOLOGY O VERVIEW The various technologies that would facilitate creation of our big data analytics solution are provided in the following subsections Hadoop is an open source framework for distributed storage and data-intensive processing firs t developed by Yahoo [1 I t  has two core projects: Hadoop Dis tributed File System \(HDFS and MapReduce programming model. HDFS is a distributed file systems that splits and stores data on nodes throughout a cluster, with a number of repl icas. It provides an extremely reliable, fault tolerant, consisten t, efficient and cost effective way to store large amounts data. The MapReduce model consists of two key functions: Mapper and Reducer. The Mapper processes input data splits in parallel through different map tasks and sends sorted, shuffled outputs to the Reducers that in turn groups and processes them using reduce tasks for each group HBase is a distributed column-oriented and NoSQL database built on top of HDFS and modeled after Google's BigTable [16  HBas e p r ov id es r eal tim e r ea d w rite r and o m access to very large datasets [1 In  HBase  a t a ble is  physically divided into many regions, which are in turn served by different Regional Servers. One of its biggest utility is of combining real-time HBase queries with batch MapReduce jobs, using HDFS as a shared storage platform OpenTSDB [18 is an o p e n sou r ce dist ri bu te d an d sc ala bl e  time-series database, developed by StumbleUpon. It supports real time collection of data points from various sources. It stores, indexes and serve metrics at a large scale in HBase R 19  is  a lang u age and  env ir o nment from the open source community widely used among statisticians and data scientists It provides a wide range of libraries for analysis and visualization. R Hadoop Integrated Processing Environment RHIPE\a library for R integrating with the Hadoop DFS Using MapReduce programming model it computes massive data sets across different nodes in a cluster. It works from the R environment using standard R programming idioms  IV R ESEARCH M ETHODOLOGY The key research focus of this project is creating an analytical solution to support assisted decision making enabling preventive care from anal ysis of behavior pattern based on movement data. A design science [2  rese a r ch  method reflects strive to solve practical problems [2 Activities in design science follow an iteration of build and evaluate [23  Th is is pa rti cul arly h elp f u l if th e des ir ed  ta r g et state of a system is not known a priori. First of all requirements for a novel analytical engine to recognize arbitrary movement patterns and bring meaning to behavior needs to be compiled. After implementing an initial prototype based on the requirements, it could be evaluated and refined    oth e r w o rds w ith each iter ati on m o r e  profound understanding of the problem can be gained, leading to improved prototypes that would help to further track down design issues Design science is particularly suited for designing healthcare/lifestyle related systems. In most cases, no technical breakthroughs are needed. Rath er, existing technology has to be adopted, reconfigured, and recombined in creative ways to target yet unsolved problems. This helps to focus on the research objective - improving the quality of life of elderly using modern technology as an enabler Requirements Engineering \(RE\eeds adherence to wellestablished practices [26 I n  pa rticu l a r, re qu i r em ents f o r  movement data analysis has to be derived through literature review as well as working closely with domain experts for the care of elderly such as municipality and health-care professional. Designing and imp lementing the prototype will follow common procedures from Software Engineering \(SE 27  All ph ases w ill h ave an in cr em ental cha r a ct er   Pr og r ess  will be checked with the dom ain experts with feedback incorporated along the new requirements for the next iteration cycle 
706 


Fig. 1 Research Areas V R ESEARCH A REAS C ONTRIBUTIONS The key research of our work would be focused towards data analysis and mining. An end-to-end evaluation of the complete project leads to classification of the research questions into three categories. As represented in Fig. 1, the categories are data privacy & security, data collection and data analysis & mining. The following subsection provides an overview of proposed contributions in creating our analytical solution. As mentioned earlier, a scalable framework for securely collecting and processing data from smart homes is needed. In the due course of our work, we worked on a 
smart home data analysis framework privacy model data intensive platform A Smart Home Data Analysis Framework B Data Privacy code of conduct for data privacy and security 
for collecting vast amounts of sensor data, storing them into a distributed Hadoop cluster while maintaining data security. As continuation of the framework we propose a k-anonymization based for preserving privacy of shared results and a to enable distributed statis tical analysis. Our future work would focus more towards establishing preventive care mechanisms demonstrated mainly through analysis of movement sensor data The data collection process should be independent of the source and structure of the data. It should embed the security privacy concepts while extracting data from sensors and pushing them into our distributed big data environment. The workflow should ensure data consistency, confidentiality and integrity. It should be capable of enabling scalability on both ends \(number of sources and size of cluster\. Proven concepts for storage and processing of continuous time series data without losing their properties in a distributed environment should be investigated In an earlier work [2 w e  had presented a framework for securely collecting and storing sensor data from smart homes in a distributed cluster using the Hadoop framework. The presented approach Fig. 2, maintained the data utility by not transforming the stored data. Rather based on cryptographic techniques, it replaced the primary and quasi- identifiers 1 of collected sensor data with hashed values before storing them into a de-identified storage A separate encrypted identifier dictionary storage, with hashed and actual identifier values was also maintained as a point of reference for re-introduction of identifiers. The identifier dictionary stored only the unique sets of primary/quasi- identifiers. The de-identified storage contained all data collected from each home, with sizes moving upto tera-bytes of information. We proposed using heuristicbased k-anonymization algorithms 29 bas e d on th e end u s er s  privacy level, requirem ents and authorization on the identifier dictionary storage. The hashed identifiers from outputs of any data processing job on the de-identified store would be replaced with their respective k-anonymized value, thus preserving privacy of any presented/shared results Fig. 2 Secure Data Framework Architecture Lifestyle data collected from smart homes are very sensitive. Although analysis of such data can enable establishing supportive and preventive care, there are major privacy regulations that have to be complied in order to share results across the value chain. The from Helsedirektoratet Norway prescribes guidelines for data from healthcare and social sectors. Using k-anonymization, privacy of micro data can be preserved depending on actors with whom data is being shared A transformed dataset satisfies k-anonymity if every combination of values in personally identifiable columns cannot be matched to fewer than k rows. However, heuristic based k-anonymization algorithms lack scalability to data spread across various nodes in a cluster and are built for centralized storages [30  A n o v el dist ri bu te d M a p R ed u c e  based k-anonymization solution is needed to address the  1 Personal and quasi- identifiers describe personally identifiable information. These attributes can directly or in-directly reveal personal information 
707 


equivalence classes k-condition size k 2k-1 k initializer mapper partitioner stat reducer partition mapper comparator partition reducer local distributed cache lhs rhs strict partitioning relaxed partitioning anonymized stat mapper C Data Intensive Processing R2Time 
 
requirements of our smart home data analysis framework. K LeFevre, et. al 31  de m o n s tra tes th e op tim al m u ltidimensional anonymization is NP-hard and introduce a simple scalable, greedy approximation algorithm for several generalpurpose quality metrics, having results better than those produced by more expensive optimal algorithms [2  3 2   Our k-anonymization solution realizes the Mondrian algorithm in a distributed setting using the MapReduce programming paradigm. As illustrated through our privacy preserving data analysis framework, sensitive/personal information was stored separately in HDFS. The goal is to partition the sensitive data set into subsets called and recursively further partition them until they satisfy the The k-condition can be described as the of partitioned equivalence class, greater than equal to the specified or smaller than equal to values. The value represents the number of records that should be indistinguishable from each other. The anonymization workflow is represented in Fig. 3 The anonymization process is carried out iteratively in two phases until the complete dataset is anonymized. First data from HDFS is read through an  All records consist of a primary identifier as key and a set of quasi-identifiers as values. A groups all key-value pairs into the same reducer as a single equivalence class. A counts the total number of records. It also calculates the max min and cardinalities for each quasi-identifier column of type numeric and characters The outputs are stored back into HDFS. Completion of this phase initiates the second phase of partitioning the data. A reads the data from HDFS that is to be anonymized. The whole process being performed iteratively data read by the partition mapper is outputs from a previous phase Outputs of the mapper consist of the quasi-identifiers as values and a composite key cont aining the primary identifier and a set of equivalence class identifiers of itself and its parents. For the first iteration the input data set is the raw data set with the same equivalence class identifier as keys for all records. Next a sorts inputs for the reducer on a quasi-identifier chosen based on the statistics from the earlier phase. It uses median partitioning rules as used in kd-trees [3  to determine the most suitable sorting/partitioning attribute The loads the statistics from previous phase as and partitions the output data set into two equivalence classes based on values on left hand side  and right hand side of its median row. Depending on the partitioning rules it either includes all rows after the median row for the most suitable sorting/partitioning attribute with the same value as itself into the lhs equivalence class and the rest to the rhs equivalence class partitions records until the median record into lhs and remaining to rhs  If an equivalence class satisfies the kcondition it is based on specified recording rules 35   els e th e e q u iv al ence cl asses a r e st or e d as in te rm ed i ate  results back into the HDFS. The equivalence classes that do not satisfy the k-condition are read using a and a respective stat reducer processes each group. The process is continued until all the remaining rows are partitioned into equivalence classes satisfying the k-condition Fig. 3 Distributed K-Anonymization Workflow To interpret, analyse and visualize large time-series data, it is essential to store them while preserving their properties of time dependence, quantity, frequency and speed. HBase provides a multi-dimensional storage through usage of unique composite keys. OpenTSDB an open source distributed and scalable time-series database that use such keys consisting of timestamps, metrics and tags for storing and indexing timeseries metrics in HBase. R is an environment for statistical explorations and data visualization with a wide variety of analytical functionalities including time-series analysis. RHIPE enables the extension of R fu nctionalities through MapReduce on data in HDFS & HBase, but remains incompatible in processing composite keys used by OpenTSDB. We propose a framework called to fill this gap, integrating these solutions together enabling distributed processing of large time-series data across a Hadoop cluster. It provides methods for distributed handling of composite keys, allowing analysis of massive amount of time-series data in an effective and scalable manner. The platform enables statistical and data mining operations using the MapReduce programming model 
708 


02 Workshop çAutomation as Caregiver Data Engineering, 2006. ICDEê06 
Pervasive Computing and Communications, 2003.\(PerCom 2003 Proceedings of the First IEEE International Conference on Computer Proceedings of the AAAIThe AAAI 2004 Workshop on Fielding Applications of AI Proc. AAAI Spring Symp. Intelligent Environments ArXiv Prepr. ArXiv13010159 The Hadoop Framework Proceedings of the 2009 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of data Hadoop: the definitive guide Proceedings of the CHI Workshop on Developing Shared Home Behavior Datasets to Advance HCI and Ubiquitous Computing Research Intell. Syst. IEEE Pervasive Comput. IEEE Hadoop at Yahoo ACM Trans. Comput. Syst. TOCS H Base: The Definitive Guide OpenTSDB R in action RHIPE The sciences of the artificial Decis. Support Syst MIS Q Design research in information systems: theory and practice Researching information systems and computing Requirements engineering: processes and techniques Software Engineering \(7th Edition Proceedings of the AMIA Annual Fall Symposium ACM Comput. Surv. CSUR Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on 
D Data Analysis & Mining 
A. Litvin, and F. Khawaja, çMavHome: An agent based smart home,é in  E. Dishman, çInventing wellness systems for aging in place  The aware home: A living laboratory for technologies for successful aging  s, and K. Krichbaum, çThe independent lifestyle assistantTM \(ILSA\: Deployment lessons learned,é in  M. C. Mozer, çThe neural network house: An environment hat adapts to its inhabitants,é in  W. W. T. Rong C, çSmart system to support safer independent living and social interaction for elderly at home A. Zaslavsky, C. Perera, and D. Georgakopoulos and big data M. Stonebraker, çA comparison of approaches to large nalysis,é in  OêReilly, 2012 Thomas, çC CASAS project,é in D. S·nchez, M. Tentori, and J. Favela, çAc hospital  K. Johnson and G. Borriello, çAssi sted cognition in community employment and support settings,é 2009 S. S. Intille, çDesigning a home of the future  Burrows, T. Chandra, A. Fikes, and R. E. Gruber, çBigtable: A distributed tured data 1st ed. Manning\002; [Pearson Education S. T. March and G. F. Smith, çDesign and natural science research on information technology  A. R. Hevner, S. T. March, J. Park, and S. Ram, çDesign science in information systems research  A. Chakravorty, T. Wlodarczyk, and C. Rong, çPrivacy Preserving Data Analytics for Smart Homes,é 2013 L. Sweeney, çGuaranteeing anonymity when sharing medical data, the atafly System.,é in B. Fung, K. Wang, R. Chen, and P. S. Yu, çPrivacy publishing: A survey of recent developments LeFevre, D. J. DeWitt, and R. Ramakrishnan, çMondrian anonymity,é in  
2003, pp. 521 524 2  vol. 37, no. 5, pp. 34 41, 2004 3  D  A b o w d  A  F  Bo b i c k   I  A  Essa E D   M y n a tt a n d W  A  Ro g e rs  in 2002 pp. 1 7 4 K  Z  H a i g h  L  M  K i f f  J   M y e r 2004, vol. 25, pp. 11 6 5  1998, pp 110 114 6  7 Sensing as a service 2013 8 N  B r ad en   2012 9 A  P a v l o  E. P a ul so n  A  R a si n D  J A b ad i D  J  D e W itt S   Ma d d e n   an d  scale data a 2009, pp. 165 178  T  W h it e   D. C ook  M  S c h m i t t e r E d gec o m b e A  C r an da ll C  San d e rs  and  B   ollecting and disseminating smart home sensor data in the 2009   tivity recognition for the smart vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 50 57, 2008      vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 76 82, 2002  Y a h oo   16 F  Ch a n g  J. D e an S  G h e m a w at, W  C. H s ie h, D  A  W a ll ach M  storage system for struc vol. 26 no. 2, p. 4, 2008  L  Georg e   pub-ORA:adr: pub-ORA, 2011  T  Suna     R  K a b a c o ff  distribut  20 10   D. S G u h a    H. A  Si m o n   MIT press, 1996   vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 251 266 1995   vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 75 105, 2004  S  C ha t t e rj ee  vol. 22. Springer, 2010 25 B. J O a te s Sage, 2005 26 I  S o mme r v ill e and G   K o to ny a John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1998  I   Som m e r vi ll e  Pearson Addison Wesley, 2004     D 1997 p. 51   preserving data  vol. 42, no. 4, p. 14, 2010  K multidimensional k, 2006, pp. 25 25 
through user defined map and reduce tasks for different analytical requirements The subsections earlier, described a solution to securely collect, store and share data from smart homes. It also enabled a platform for distributed statistical analysis. In this section, we propose establishing preventive care, demonstrated through analysis of movement sensor data Each smart home comprises of a network of optical sensors detecting movement of residents within a household. Using wristbands with embedded identifiers, multiple individuals within a household can be recognized. Profiles for each household could be established, through daily movement patters. Behavioral anomaly can be detected from significant variation in their patterns or co-relation with other households with similar behavior, leading to heath risks in the future. An example would be behavior of using the toilet, wherein unusual patterns could be detected and care be furnished. This is especially essential for elderly residents, where it is critical to provide right care at the right time. A generic analytical model can provide opportunities for ad-hoc analytics along with knowledge discovery and data mining methods to detect behavioral anomalies. Investigation of various data mining methods and techniqu es [3  h as t o  b e  c a r r i e d ou t f o r  identifying, evaluating, and choo sing correct algorithms to recognize movement patterns, create profiles, establish behavior knowledge bases and perform co-relation on timeseries data. Focus would be towards implementation of scalable data mining algorithms to work on a distributed environment and to create knowledge in an accurate meaningful way VI C ONCLUSION Through this paper the motivation and a prototype towards creation of a data analytical solution for the Safer@Home project is presented. Majority of research in analyzing data from smart homes are much of a lab-based initiative and lack adaptation in the real world. Unlike other projects, our focus is on establishing preventive care based on analysis of movement sensor data to contribute in the welfare of the elderly. Using modern Big Data solutions and proper statistical tools the aim is providing real-time as well as historical analysis of continuous stream of time series data. The key area of research through this project is data an alysis and mining. Data security privacy, collection and visualization are other areas that are also investigated, in order to create and develop a comprehensive & complete solution with real-world applications R EFERENCES  D J  C ook   M  Youn gb lood  E  O Hei e rm a n  III   K   Gop a lra t na m  S Ra o 
709 


  l k, 2005, pp. 217 228   argus: Software for statistical 1996   2002, pp. 279 288    vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 209 226, 1977  M  vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 866 883, 1996 
Data Engineering, 2005. ICDE 2005. Proceedings. 21st International Conference on Third International Seminar on Statistical Confidentiality Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining ACM Trans. Math. Softw. TOMS Knowl. Data Eng. IEEE Trans 
R. J. Bayardo and R. Agrawal, çData privacy through optima anonymization,é in  A. Hundepool and L. Willenborg, ç\003 and \004 disclosure control,é in V. S. Iyengar, çTransforming data to satisfy privacy constraints,é in  J. H. Friedman, J. L. Bentley, and R. A. Finkel, çAn algorithm for finding best matches in logarithmic expected time  S. Chen, J. Han, and P. S. Yu, çData mining: an overview from a database perspective  
710 


semantic domain knowledge to address data variety  We not only consider online querying over data streams but also from a completely new perspective use CEP as a dynamic stream storage for on-demand querying Database systems which may seem appealing to implement the hybrid query model is also relevant Distributed databases and in-memory databases 7 support ef\002cient on-demand queries at high reading rates Realtime databases and active databases 21 de v eloped schedule or trigger mechanisms to perform online queries over dynamic data We extend CEP to support hybrid online and on-demand queries with a query-over-query paradigm This allows 003exible stream storage provisioning which is extremely important for applications supporting heterogeneous data and users In addition our approach inherits intuitive temporal query speci\002cation and ef\002cient online query processing capabilities from CEP systems Different to relational and NoSQL query models CEP provides explicit temporal operators such as time window and temporal order to correlate realtime data Designated algorithms such as NFA are used for high-throughput query matching over data streams Realtime and active databases can perform online relational queries but do not scale to such highrate inputs or queries Stream databases such as 22 offer powerful query languages with sliding windows and sequence operators but also do not scale to high data rate VII C ONCLUSIONS In this paper we introduce a stateful Complex Event Processing framework to meet the needs of emerging realtime Big Data applications across all 3-V's The proposed system supports semantic-level query speci\002cation over realtime data to deal with data variety  It inherits CEP systems high performance online querying capabilities to deal with data velocity  Furthermore we extend traditional CEP systems to support on-demand querying to deal with data volume on streams The formal query algebra we proposed captures the stateful and containment semantics of realtime data queries which form the basis for the hybrid query paradigm Various query processing techniques we introduce work toward ef\002cient execution of this hybrid model including online query evaluation query-based stream storage provisioning dynamic data life-cycle management and on-demand query evaluation There are several implementation issues to be considered further as we complete our prototype based on these formal abstractions One of them is the scalability of the in-memory state persistence model When the stateful CEP system processes a large number of long running online queries the system memory may be drained out To address this issue we are exploring scale-out opportunities by distributing the H2O query model over the network The detailed performance evaluation will further validate our proposed models and optimizations R EFERENCES  Big data gets rea l-time Oracle White Paper  2013  A Adi and et al Comple x e v ent processing for 002nancial services In IEEE Services Computing Workshops  2006  A Demers J Gehrk e and et al Cayug a A general purpose event monitoring system In CIDR  2007  D Anic ic S Rudolph P  F odor  and N Stojano vic Stream reasoning and complex event processing in etalis Semantic Web Journal  2012  N Backman R F onseca and U C 270 etintemel Managing par allelism for stream processing in the cloud In International Workshop on Hot Topics in Cloud Data Processing  2012  A Biem and et al IBM infosphere streams for scalable realtime intelligent transportation services In SIGMOD  2010  R Cattell Scalable sql and nosql data stores SIGMOD Record  39\(4 2011  D Abadi and D Carne y et al Aurora a data stream management system In SIGMOD  2003  D Carne y  U Cetintemel and et al Monitoring streams a new class of data management applications In VLDB  2002  H Garcia-Molina J D Ullman and J W idom Database systems The complete book Prentice Hall Press  2008  D Gyllstrom E W u and et al SASE Comple x e v ent processing over streams In the 3rd Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research  2007  J Han E Haihong G Le and J Du Surv e y on nosql database In International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Applications ICPCA  2011  M T  Jones Process real-time big data with twitter storm IBM Technical Library  2013  H Joshi and G R Bamnote Distrib uted database A survey In International Journal Of Computer Science And Applications  2013  B Kao and H Garcia-molina An o v ervie w of real-time database systems In Advances in Real-Time Systems  1994  D Lane y  3D data management Controlling data v olume velocity and variety Technical report META Group 2001  S S Loesing M Hentschel T  Kraska and D K ossmann Stormy an elastic and highly available streaming service in the cloud In Joint EDBT/ICDT Workshops  2012  S Suhothayan K Gajasinghe and et al Siddhi A second look at complex event processing architectures In ACM GCE Workshop  2011 http://siddhi.sourceforge.net  K Shv achk o H K uang S Radia and R Chansler  The hadoop distributed 002le system In IEEE Symposium on Mass Storage Systems and Technologies  2010  Y  Simmhan S Aman A K umbhare R Liu S Ste v ens Q Zhou and V Prasanna Cloud-based software platform for data-driven smart grid management CiSE  2013  D T erry  D Goldber g D Nichols and B Oki Continuous queries over append-only databases In SIGMOD  1992  Y  La w and et al Query languages and data m odels for database sequences and data streams In VLDB  2004  Q Zhou S Natarajan Y  Simmhan and V  Prasanna Semantic information modeling for emerging applications in smart grid In ITNG  2012  Q Zhou Y  Simmhan and V  Prasanna Incorporating semantic knowledge into dynamic data processing for smart power grids In International Semantic Web Conference  2012  Q Zhou Y  Simmhan and V  Prasanna  Scepter Semantic complex event processing across realtime and persistent streams IEEE Transactions on Computers  2013 Under review 205 


                                                                                                                                                            16 


   9 extreme radiation environment could induce faults i n these components that can only be cleared by the removal and reapplication of power termed off-pulsing The FM S implements an off-pulsing architecture that provide s offpulsing capabilities to clear faults in the transce iver IEM and PDU. Mechanisms are provided to allow individua l offpulsing of any of these components in Operational M ode. In addition to address a safety net for unknown fault s the FMS can reset the entire system by off-pulsing all three of these critical components simultaneously in Safe Mo de In general, the off-pulsing of any single component is handled in Operational Mode as a response to a less severe fault while the off-pulsing of all three components is ha ndled in Safe Mode as a response to the expiration of the ha rdware command loss timer i.e the spacecraft has not re ceived a specific command from the ground in 3.6 days  All off-pulse requests are routed through the PDU with the PDU implementing a specific hardware command sequen ce for each off-pulse type The off-pulse mechanism is  designed to be fault-tolerant with a single fault r esulting in at most a single off-pulse cycle  The FM architec ture utilizes the following off-pulse requests: IEM requ est to offpulse transceiver via software command loss timer SWCLT    t r a n s c e i v e r  r e q u e s t  t o  o f f p u l s e  I E M   v i a  RF CCD command transceiver request of off-pulse PDU via RF CCD command and hardware command loss timer HWCLT request to off-pulse PDU IEM and transcei ver as shown in Figure  8   Figure 8:  Top Level Off-Pulsing Architecture  2.4.2.3  Limited Instrument Fault Management The final high-level requirement that drives the mo des and safing approach is limited instrument FM.  The FMS is decoupled from the science instruments Instrument FM  is limited to the monitoring of instrument power draw power down request and heartbeat The instrument generat es and provides the spacecraft with status information in the Interface Transfer Format ITF Instrument status includes power-down requests and an instrument aliveness cou nter An instrument power-down request or frozen alivenes s indicator results in the removal of operational pow er from the instrument within a pre-defined number of secon ds In the event of an instrument over-current/over-power condition the instrument is immediately powered of f with no advanced warning Over-current/over-power protec tion is handled with a combination of autonomy rules and  resettable circuit breakers located in the PDU To protect against hard shorts the PDU monitors current and i f the load current exceeds a threshold for 4 ms, the circ uit breaker opens the switch and power is immediately removed f rom the instrument Autonomy rules protect against soft  shorts by monitoring a lower power threshold for a longer duration  In addition spacecraft anomalous conditions such a s low battery state of charge low voltage sense or exte nded loss of communication result in all instruments being immediately powered off with no advanced shutdown warning Therefore instruments must be designed to  be immediately powered-off from any internal mode in t he event of an instrument over-current or spacecraft a nomalous condition For a violation of the spin-axis Sun-lin e angle the instruments receive a 15 second shutdown warnin g before being powered off. Any additional FM measure s that are specific to the instruments are the responsibil ity of the instruments themselves 2.4.3  Ground Intervention Concept The high-level requirement for limited on-board FM drives the ground intervention concept In an effort to ke ep the FMS as simple as possible on-board FM is minimized  by taking advantage of inherent mission design charact eristics and spacecraft design decisions The spacecraft are  spin stabilized with spin-axis 15-27 deg off the Sun Th e nearSun pointed attitude is the only attitude required to collect the prime science measurements and requires only pe riodic precession maneuvers every ~21days for the duration of the mission in order to be maintained The periodic pre cession maneuvers are dictated by the Earthís orbital motio n around the Sun with maneuvers performed when the total Su n offset angle reaches maximum value This orbit offe rs a number of design advantages 1 when combined with antenna coverage out to 70 deg from both sides of s pin-axis frequent ground contacts more than 1/day with neg ligible communication delays are possible, 2\ the near-Sun pointed attitude ensures adequate power generation when att itude is maintained within the maximum offset angle and 3 the inherently stable spin state requires infrequent ad justments to maintain the spacecraftís orientation allowing for openloop attitude control  Since the RBSP spacecraft are near-Sun pointing spi nners inherently stable with open-loop attitude control  there is no on-board capability for the G&C subsystem to autonomously point the spacecraft which significan tly reduces the amount of on-board autonomy required I n general, on-board autonomy is comprised of dedicate d rules that take simple actions such as powering off a com ponent or resetting a component. When possible, the FMS me asures are allocated to hardware to reduce the size of the on-board autonomy rule set Finally the frequent ground con tacts with negligible communication delays allow the burd en for fault correction and recovery to be placed on the g round 


   10 3  Verification  As a distributed system the verification of the RB SP FM requirements was also distributed Verification of subsystem-level FM requirements were captured in th e various subsystem verification plans with buy-in f rom the RBSP FM lead engineer Verification of system-level  FM requirements were performed on the spacecraft and l ed by the FM lead engineer  Requirements for the RBSP mission are organized hierarchically, based upon the missionís product br eakdown structure as shown in Figure 9 Requirements are d efined from the mission-level directly to the element-leve l in order to avoid the creation of too many documentation lay ers In addition to the requirement level the requirements  tree is also organized according to requirement type i.e  performance/measurement mission assurance environmental, and interface requirements  Figure 9: RBSP Mission Product Breakdown Structure  The FM requirements are distributed and flow down f rom the Mission Requirements Document MRD to the element-level and then to the subsystem-level The FM requirements are categorized as performance/measure ment requirements which are captured in various requirem ents documents or as interface requirements which are ca ptured in interface control documents ICD Figure 10 sho ws the hierarchy of FM requirements and the categorization  of those requirements   Figure 10: Hierarchy of Fault Management Requirements  Although FM requirements may be verified using test  analysis, demonstration, inspection, or some combin ation of these the preferred verification method for FM requirements is test. The verification of FM requir ements is accomplished through an integrated hierarchical app roach comprised of a series of verification activities D uring the Integration and Test I&T phase verification prog resses from individual components and subsystems to integr ated segments and upward to the entire mission system Individual components are verified by their provide rs against the corresponding component and subsystemlevel fault management requirements The FM lead engineer  has oversight authority over these lower-level FM verif ication activities and has access to all generated verifica tion records and reports. In addition, the FM team performs syst em-level scenario testing and supports mission simulations a nd I&T special tests in order to verify the system-level  i.e mission- and element-level\ FM requirements  The FM team has oversight authority over lower-leve l FM verification activities and reviewed the verificati on plans for spacecraft subsystem and science instrument teams which were allocated FM requirements to ensure that FM requirements are adequately verified FM requiremen ts allocated to hardware \(i.e., spacecraft or ground are verified during box-level and subsystem-level acceptance tes t The individual subsystem teams are responsible for desi gning and running tests that verify these subsystem-level  fault management requirements FM requirements allocated to spacecraft flight software or ground software are v erified by independent acceptance test at the flight software testbed level The Independent Acceptance Test IAT team i s responsible for designing and running the tests tha t verify these subsystem-level FM requirements The tests us ed to perform the verification are typically black box requirements-based tests FM requirements allocated  to spacecraft rule-based autonomy are verified by the autonomy team and autonomy developers on the flight  software testbeds, high-fidelity hardware simulator s, and the spacecraft. The autonomy test campaign is comprised of two phases autonomy unit test phase and autonomy path verification phase Autonomy unit testing is perfor med on the flight software testbeds early in the autonomy development and involves standalone testing of the individual autonomy objects i.e rule macro com puted telemetry, and storage variable\. The goal of the u nit testing is to identify defects such as coding errors before  the autonomy objects are assembled into a complete deli verable autonomy system.  At the conclusion of the unit tes t phase the autonomy system is delivered to the spacecraft and the path verification phase begins Note the autonomy path verification testing is on the leading-edge of the FM scenario testing The autonomy path verification t esting takes place during spacecraft I&T with the purpose of exercising the autonomy system on flight hardware a nd verifying all of the sensor interfaces i.e senso r data used by autonomy rules and computed telemetry and all 


   11 commands emitted by the autonomy system to the flig ht hardware from autonomy macros The paths are independently verified on both spacecraft rather th an endorsing a verification by similarity approach FM requirements allocated to the ground system are ver ified by operational procedure, operational constraint, or b y mission simulation Verification of requirements using oper ational procedure are performed by inspection of the signed off procedure document Verification of requirements us ing operational constraint are performed by inspection of the RBSP Operations Constraint Document Finally verification of requirements using mission simulati ons are performed by test at the observatory level or the h igh fidelity hardware simulator  The FM team has overall responsibility for coordina ting the mission- and element-level verification plans and a ctivities The resulting verification program ensures that the  FMS satisfies the functional requirements and is in con formance with the mission and operational concepts defined f or FM The FM team is responsible for establishing, review ing, and approving all FM verification activities and method s planned for requirements specified at the mission and element-level. All mission- and element-level funct ional and performance requirements will be verified by one or  more appropriate methods prior to launch with closure s tatus tracked in the DOORS requirements database system Whenever possible FM requirements at the mission and element-level are verified by test The FM team is responsible for designing and performing system-lev el scenario tests that verify the mission- and element level FM requirements In addition some FM requirements are  verified using mission simulations which are led by  the Mission Operations Team MOT or I&T special tests which are led by the I&T Team. System-level scenari o tests are developed, designed, and performed by the FM te am to verify mission and element-level FM requirements  The system-level FM tests are scenario based tests that  are similar to mission simulations except that one or m ore faults are injected during the simulation the scenario te sts are black-box requirements-based tests For each scena rio the test must 1 prove that the spacecraft can perform  the scenario correctly \(i.e., without fault injection and \(2\ prove that the spacecraft can recover from the injected f ault to a state in which the MOT can return the spacecraft to nominal operations  As a distributed system the FM test campaign is di vided into two distinct phases as shown in Figure 11 Th e first phase is the subsystem-level test phase in which th e individual subsystems design and run tests to verif y and close their subsystem-level FM requirements \(i.e hardware flight software and autonomy At the conclusion o f the subsystem-level test phase the subsystems are cons idered ready to be delivered to spacecraft I&T and are ava ilable for the second phase of the FM test campaign The secon d phase is the system-level test phase that exercises the FMS as a whole on both spacecraft during I&T. The syste m-level tests serve two purposes 1 verification of missi on and element-level FM requirements and 2 validation of  subsystem-level FM requirements Note  subsystem-l evel FM requirements are verified and closed at the subs ystemlevel prior to I&T      Figure 11:  Fault Protection Test Campaign Overview   System-level scenario testing is performed by the F M team and consists of a series of spacecraft scenarios T he objective of the system-level scenario tests is to verify mission and element-level FM requirements in addi tion many of the subsystem-level requirements are also v alidated as a result of verifying the system-level requireme nts The FM scenario testing consists of three tiers of test ing Tier one tests must be performed on both spacecraft two times baseline and launch site are included on the incompressible test list and are regression tested  on both spacecraft if a hardware configuration change or a significant FSW change affects the test. Tier two t ests must be performed on both spacecraft at least once \(base line\, are included on the incompressible test list and are r egression tested on the high-fidelity hardware simulator or t he affected spacecraft if a hardware configuration cha nge or a significant FSW change affects the test Finally t ier three tests are performed on both spacecraft once \(baseli ne  The baseline configuration for FM scenario testing is when the spacecraft bus is complete with a goal of havi ng instruments integrated The test platform for the b aseline FM testing is I&T; this allows the FMS \(i.e., space craft bus hardware C&DH flight software autonomy and ground/missions operations\ to be exercised as a wh ole and permits the verification of all interfaces between components all autonomy commands via autonomy macros to flight hardware and flight software and  all hardware i.e PDU commands to flight hardware T he high fidelity hardware simulator section 3.1 is u sed whenever possible to dry-run the scenario tests to identify and correct procedural errors and for regression te sting of tier two tests  


   12 The scenario tests are designed through a process o f grouping the FM requirements into sequences. The pr ocess is performed using a requirements-to-test allocatio n matrix in which each requirement is assigned to a test or group of tests The selection of which tests form the incomp ressible test suite is performed through consultation and it eration of the core test list with the systems engineering tea m Following the allocation of all requirements to the  various tests, individual test plans are developed that inc lude a set of starting conditions and high-level outline of test and verification activities. Each test plan includes th e following information test name document number tier desig nation test objective, requirements fully or partially ver ified by the test, minimum spacecraft component set required to run the test, initial conditions for the test, required sup port, planning notes, and the high-level test outline   Figure 12 shows the activity flow for each scenario  test during the system-level test phase  Following the development of the system-level verification and te st plan individual test procedures are generated for each t est. A test procedure is a configuration managed document that describes the detailed information necessary to run  the test on the spacecraft and the list of steps taken to ex ecute the test. The test procedure is also the as-run documen t used by the test conductor or FM lead engineer to document the major milestones of the test When possible the te st procedure will be dry run on the high-fidelity simu lators to identify and correct procedural errors. The test pr ocedure is then executed on the observatory during I&T \(eventu ally the procedure is run on both spacecraft Any deviation s from the test procedure are documented within the test p rocedure as red lines \(i.e., permanent changes to the test p rocedure\ or black lines i.e changes for the current procedur e If the test fails due to test procedure errors the test p rocedure is corrected and the process is repeated However if the test fails due to an implementation error in flight hard ware flight software or autonomy a formal discrepancy is documented in the Anomaly/Problem Failure Reporting  APFR system any changes or corrections to autono my flight software, or hardware are implemented and th e test is re-run until the anomaly is resolved and the test r uns to successful completion After the completion of each  test a review of the test procedure as-run information a nd spacecraft data is performed by a member of the FM team Following the review of the test data, the FM lead engineer signs the test procedure confirming that the test w as run and the review accurately described the success or fail ure of the test  n	\r\n\n  n        n   n\r     n r\r\n\r r\n\r r\r\n\r    0/-1  23  n  4      Figure 12:  Fault Protection System-Level Test Proc ess Flow 4  CONCLUSION The RBSP spacecraft are designed to operate for mul tiple years in the extreme environment of the Earthís rad iation belts.  To facilitate this mission, a robust fault management system is integrated into the system architecture f rom the earliest stages of the design.  This fault manageme nt system was rigorously tested during I&T and the results o f this testing show that the RBSP spacecraft are protected against on-orbit fault conditions and therefore have a hig h probability of meeting the mission objectives  The  RBSP fault management design, implementation and test ap proach demonstrate that robust fault-tolerant designs are  achievable for complex systems operating in harsh environments even for systems with only limited or  selective redundancy 5  REFERENCES  1  J   S t r a t t o n  a n d  N   F o x   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P robes RBSP\ Mission Overview Proc. of the 2012 IEEE Aerospace Conf. Vol. 027 No. xxx Big Sky, Montana USA, March 2012. The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723   2  K   K i r b y  e t  a l   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P r o b e s   R B SP Spacecraft and impact of environment on observatory  design Proc. of the 2012  IEEE Aerospace Conf.,Vol  027 No. 1759 Big Sky, Montana, USA, March 2012 The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723  


WeD6 \226 Queuing Theory Visitor Center   Chair Starobinski, David Boston University On the Channel-Sensitive Delay Behavior of LIFO-Backpressure 715  Si, Wei Boston University  Starobinski, David Boston University  Transient Flow Level Models for In terference-Coupled Cellular Networks 723  326hmann, David Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fehske, Albrecht Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fettweis, Gerhard Technische Universit\344t Dresden  When do Redundant Requests Reduce Latency 731  Shah, Nihar B University of California, Berkeley  Lee, Kangwook University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  Scheduling in Cooperative Cognitive Radio Networks 739  Das, Dibakar Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Abouzeid, Alhussein A Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Codreanu, Marian University of Oulu  Batch Job Scheduling for Reducing Water Footprints in Data Center 747  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Bits through Bufferless Queues 755  Tavan, Mehrnaz Rutgers University  Yates, Roy D Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  ThA1 \226 Information-Theoretic Security Library   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois Networked Cyber-Physical Systems: Interdep endence, Resilience and Information Exchange 763  Zhu, Quanyan Princeton University  Bushnell, Linda University of Washington  On the Secure Interference Channel 770  Somekh-Baruch, Anelia Bar-Ilan University  How Many Antennas does a Cooperative Jammer Need for Achieving the Degrees of Freedom of Multiple Antenna Gaussian Channels in the Presence of an Eavesdropper 774  Nafea, Mohamed Pennsylvania State University  Yener, Aylin Pennsylvania State University  Distributed Consensus with Byzantine Adversaries n/a  Liu, Xiangyang University of Maryland  Gao, Peixin University of Maryland  Baras, John University of Maryland  


Why Cyber-Insurance Contracts Fail to Reflect Cyber-Risks 781  Schwartz, Galina University of California, Berkeley  Shetty, Nikhil Insieme Networks  Walrand, Jean University of California, Berkeley  Performance-Aware IP Address Randomi zation in Moving Target Defense n/a  Clark, Andrew University of Washington  Sun, Kun George Mason University  Poovendran, Radha University of Washington  ThA2 \226 Distributed Stor age: Theory and Practice Solarium   Chair Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois Explicit Maximally Recoverable Codes with Locality n/a  Gopalan, Parikshit Microsoft Research  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  Jenkins, Bob Microsoft Research  Yekhanin, Sergey Microsoft Research  On the Interior Points of the Storage-Repa ir Bandwidth Tradeoff of Regenerating Codes 788  Sasidharan, Birenjith Indian Institute of Science  Kumar, P. Vijay Indian Institute of Science  A Family of Locally Recoverable Codes n/a  Tamo, Itzhak University of Maryland  Barg, Alexander University of Maryland  Locality and Availability in Distributed Storage n/a  Rawat, Ankit Singh University of Texas, Austin  Papailiopoulos, Dimitris University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Vishwanath, Sriram University of Texas, Austin  Data Secrecy in Distributed Storage Systems under Exact Repair n/a  El Rouayheb, Salim Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago  Goparaju, Sreechakra Princeton University  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Calderbank, A. Robert Duke University  LRC Erasure Coding in Windows Storage: From Cloud to Desktop n/a  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  ThA3 \226 Information Theory II Butternut   Chair  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University Matroid Bounds on the Region of Entropic Vectors 796  Li, Congduan Drexel University  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University  Weber, Steven Drexel University  


Groups and Information Inequalities in 5 Variables 804  Markin, Nadya Nanyang Technological University  Thomas, Eldho Nanyang Technological University  Oggier, Fr\351d\351rique Nanyang Technological University  Superadditivity of Quantum Channel Coding Rate with Finite Blocklength Quantum Measurements 810  Chung, Hye Won Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Zheng, Lizhong Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Information Rates in the Optica l Nonlinear Phase Noise Channel 818  Dar, Ronen Tel Aviv University  Shtaif, Mark Tel Aviv University  Feder, Meir Tel Aviv University  An Outer Bound of the Capacity Re gion of Biometric Systems under Keys, Secrets, and Privacy Requirements 824  Lai, Po-Hsiang Washington University in Saint Louis  O'Sullivan, Joseph A Washington University in Saint Louis  Generalized Cut-Set Bounds for Broadcast Networks 832  Salimi, Amir Texas A&M University  Liu, Tie Texas A&M University  Cui, Shuguang Texas A&M University  ThA4 \226 Sensor Networks Pine   Chair Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis How to Sleep, Control and Transfer Data in an Energy Constrained Wireless Sensor Network 839  Venkateswaran, Vijay Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Kennedy, Irwin O Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Network Observability and Localization of the So urce of Diffusion based on a Subset of Nodes 847  Zejnilovic, Sabina Carnegie Mellon University  Gomes, Jo\343o Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  The Central Detection Officer Problem: SALS A Detector and Performance Guarantees 853  Li, Xiao University of California, Davis  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  A New Graph Model with Random Edge Values: Connectivity and Diameter 861  La, Richard J University of Maryland, College Park  Kabkab, Maya University of Maryland, College Park  


ThA5 \226 Source Coding Lower Level   Chair Cohen, Asaf Ben-Gurion University Correlated Sources with Actions 869  Sabag, Oron Ben Gurion University  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University  Cohen, Asaf Ben Gurion University  Non-Asymptotic Bounds on Fixed Leng th Source Coding for Markov Chains 875  Hayashi, Masahito Nagoya University  Watanabe, Shun University of Tokushima  Efficient Similarity Queri es via Lossy Compression 883  Ochoa, Idoia Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Results on the Optimal Memory-Assisted Univer sal Compression Performance for Mixture Sources 890  Beirami, Ahmad Georgia Institute of Technology  Sardari, Mohsen Georgia Institute of Technology  Fekri, Faramarz Georgia Institute of Technology  Interactive Function Computation with Reconstruction Constraints 896  Ebrahim Rezagah, Farideh Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Erkip, Elza Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Distortion Rate Function of Sub-Nyquist Sa mpled Gaussian Sources Corrupted by Noise 901  Kipnis, Alon Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea J Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Eldar, Yonina C Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  ThB1 \226 Dynamic Games Library   Chair Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan Joint Control of Transmission Power and Channel Switching against Adaptive Jamming 909  Wang, Qingsi University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  Characterization and Computation of Loca l Nash Equilibria in Continuous Games 917  Ratliff, Lillian J University of California, Berkeley  Burden, Samuel A University of California, Berkeley  Sastry, S. Shankar University of California, Berkeley  Multiagent Inverse Reinforcement Learni ng for Zero-Sum Stochastic Games n/a  Beling, Peter University of Virginia  Cogill, Randy University of Virginia  Lin, Xiaomin University of Virginia  A Dynamic VCG Mechanism for Random Allocation Spaces 925  Balandat, Maximilian University of California, Berkeley  Tomlin, Claire J University of California, Berkeley  


Nonstationary Resource Sharing with Imperfect Binary Feedback An Optimal Design Framework for Cost Minimization 932  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  ThB2 \226 Topics in Information Theory III Solarium   Chair Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  De Novo RNA Shotgun Sequencing: Fundamental Limits n/a  Kannan, Sreeram University of Illinois  Pachter, Lior University of California, Berkeley  Tse, David University of California, Berkeley  Queue Length as an Implicit Communication Channel 940  Park, Se Yong University of California, Berkeley  Sahai, Anant University of California, Berkeley  Polytope Codes for Large-Alphabet Channels 948  Fan, Xiaoqing Cornell University  Wagner, Aaron B Cornell University  Ahmed, Ebad LSI Corporation  Data-Driven Management of Infrastructure Networks n/a  Rajagopal, Ram Stanford University A Derivation of the Asymptotic Random-Coding Prefactor 956  Scarlett, Jonathan University of Cambridge  Martinez, Alfonso Universitat Pompeu Fabra  Guill\351n i F\340bregas, Albert ICREA and Universitat Pompeu Fabra  ThB3 \226 Discrete Event Systems Butternut   Chair  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University On Exploiting Algebraic Structure in Control of Finite State Machines 962  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University  A Bridge between Decentralized and Coordination Control 966  Komenda, Jan Czech Academy of Sciences  Masopust, Tom\341\232 Czech Academy of Sciences  A Model Checking Framework for Linear Time Invariant Switching Systems using Structural Systems Analysis 973  Ramos, Guilherme Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Pequito, S\351rgio Carnegie Mellon University and Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Aguiar, A. Pedro University of Porto  Ramos, Jaime Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Kar, Soummya Carnegie Mellon University  


Robust Supervisory Control of Ne tworked Discrete Event Systems 981  Wang, Fei Tongji University  Shu, Shaolong Tongji University  Lin, Feng Wayne State University  Probability Bounds for False Alarm Anal ysis of Fault Detection Systems 989  Hu, Bin University of Minnesota  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  ThB4 \226 Network Inference Pine   Chair Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Organizer\(s Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin Robust Structure Estimation of M aximum Causal Entropy Processes 996  Ziebart, Brian D University of Illinois, Chicago  The Squared-Error of Generalized LASSO: A Precise Analysis 1002  Oymak, Samet California Institute of Technology  Thrampoulidis, Christos California Institute of Technology  Hassibi, Babak California Institute of Technology  Localized Minimax Complexity of Stochastic Convex Optimization n/a  Zhu, Yuancheng University of Chicago  Lafferty, John University of Chicago  Non-Convex Inference via Alternatin g Minimization: Provable Guarantees n/a  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Loop Calculus and Bootstrap-Belief Propagatio n for Perfect Matchings on Arbitrary Graphs n/a  Chertkov, Michael Los Alamos National Laboratory  Gelfand, Andrew University of California, Irvine  Shin, Jinwoo Massachusetts Institute of Technology  ThB5 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems I Lower Level   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  A Rank Minimization Algorithm to Enhance Semidefinite Rel axations of Optimal Power Flow 1010  Louca, Raphael Cornell University  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  Bitar, Eilyan Cornell University  Power System Structure and Confidenti ality Preserving Transformation of Optimal Power Flow Model 102 1  Borden, Alexander R University of Wisconsin, Madison  Molzahn, Daniel K University of Michigan  Lesieutre, Bernard C University of Wisconsin, Madison  Ramanathan, Parmeswaran University of Wisconsin, Madison  


Incentive Design for Direct Load Control Programs 1029  Alizadeh, Mahnoosh University of California, Davis  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 1 n/a  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Pandzic, Hrvoje University of Washington  Qiu, Ting University of Washington  Wang, Yishen University of Washington  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 2 n/a  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Xue, Mengran University of Michigan  Almassalkhi, Mads Root3 Technologies Ltd  Felder, Jennifer University of Michigan  The Redistribution of Power Flow in Cascading Failures 1037  Lai, Chengdi California Institute of Technology  Low, Steven H California Institute of Technology  ThB6 \226 Multiuser Detecti on and Estimation Theory Visitor Center   Chair Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University Phase and Power Estimation for Per-Hop MultiUser Detection in Frequency-Hopping Systems 1045  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Royster, Thomas C MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Non-Coherent Multi-User Detection of DPSK Signals after Differential Demodulation 1052  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  The Incidence and Cross Methods for Efficient Radar Detection 1059  Fish, Alexander University of Sydney  Gurevich, Shamgar University of Wisconsin, Madison  Capacity Analysis of Uplink Multi-User SC-FDMA System with Frequency-Dependent I/Q Imbalance 1067  Ishaque, Aamir RWTH Aachen University  Sakulkar, Pranav RWTH Aachen University  Ascheid, Gerd RWTH Aachen University  Reliable Uncoded Communication in th e Underdetermined SIMO MAC with Low-Complexity Decoding 1 075  Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  


ThC1 \226 Networks, Ga mes and Algorithms III Library   Chair  Williams, Steven R University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Competitive Equilibrium in Electricity Markets wi th Heterogeneous users and Ramping Constraints n/a  Malekian, Azarakhsh Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Ozdaglar, Asu Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Wei, Ermin Massachusetts Institute of Technology  A Lyapunov Optimization Approach to Repeated Stochastic Games 1082  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  Road Traffic Networks: Optimal Transport and Incentives 1090  Mandayam, Chinmoy V Stanford University  Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  Online Stochastic Ad Allocation: Simu ltanenous and Bicriteria Approximations n/a  Mirrokni, Vahab Google Research  A Processor-Sharing Heuristic fo r Multipath Congestion Control n/a  Walton, Neil Stuart University of Amsterdam  Anselmi, Jonatha Basque Center for Applied Mathematics  D'Auria, Bernardo Universidad Carlos III de Madrid  ThC2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing I Solarium   Chair Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Asymptotic Optimality Results for Controlled Sequential Estimation 1098  Atia, George University of Central Florida  Aeron, Shuchin Tufts University  Even Symmetric Parallel Linear Determinis tic Interference Channels are Inseparable 1106  Mukherjee, Pritam University of Maryland  Tandon, Ravi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Ulukus, Sennur University of Maryland  Estimation Over the Collision Channel: Structural Results 1114  Vasconcelos, Marcos M University of Maryland  Martins, Nuno C University of Maryland  Physical Watermarking and Authenti cation in Cyber-Physical Systems n/a  Weerakkody, Sean Carnegie Mellon University  Mo, Yilin California Institute of Technology  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  


Distributed Linear Estimation of Dynamic Random Fields 1120  Das, Subhro Carnegie Mellon University  Moura, Jos\351 M.F Carnegie Mellon University  ThC3 \226 Active Learning, Search and Visual Recognition Butternut   Chair Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Co-Chair Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Working Title: Learning to Recognize Everything n/a  Berg, Alexander C University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill  Visual Attributes for Enhanced Human-Machine Communication 1126  Parikh, Devi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Active Learning of Linear Separators n/a  Balcan, Maria Florina Georgia Institute of Technology  Discriminative Value of Information for Structured Prediction n/a  Taskar, Ben University of Washington  Extrinsic Jensen\226Shannon Divergence and Noisy Bayesian Active Learnin\g 1128  Naghshvar, Mohammad University of California, San Diego  Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Chaudhuri, Kamalika University of California, San Diego  Universal Random Number Generators for Finite Memory Sources n/a  Seroussi, Gadiel Universidad de la Rep\372blica, Uruguay  Weinberger, Marcelo J Center for Science of Information  ThC4 \226 Information Theory III Pine   Chair Avestimehr, Salman Cornell University Approximate Capacity of the Two-User MI SO Broadcast Channel with Delayed CSIT 1136  Vahid, Alireza Cornell University  Maddah-ali, Mohammad Ali Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  K-User Symmetric MIMO Distributed Full-D uplex Network via Wireless Side-Channels 1144  Bai, Jingwen Rice University  Dick, Chris Xilinx, Inc  Sabharwal, Ashutosh Rice University  Degrees of Freedom Region for MIMO Interferen ce Channel with Limite d Receiver Cooperation 1152  Ashraphijuo, Mehdi Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  


Degrees of Freedom of the MIMO Rank-Def icient Interference Channel with Feedback 1159  Chae, Sung Ho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Suh, Changho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Chung, Sae-Young Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  On the Optimality of Trea ting Interference as Noise 1166  Geng, Chunhua University of California, Irvine  Naderializadeh, Navid Cornell University  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  Jafar, Syed A University of California, Irvine  Asymmetric Compute-and-Forward 1174  Ntranos, Vasilis University of Southern California  Cadambe, Viveck R Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Nazer, Bobak Boston University  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  ThC5 \226 Pricing and Contractive Mechanisms for Wireless Data Services Lower Level   Chair Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Smart Data Pricing for the Internet: Agenda & Research Directions 1182  Sen, Soumya University of Minnesota  Market Structures for Wirele ss Service with Shared Spectrum 1188  Berry, Randall Northwestern University  Honig, Michael Northwestern University  Subramanian, Vijay Northwestern University  Nguyen, Thanh Northwestern University  Vohra, Rakesh Northwestern University  Fostering Wireless Spectrum Sharing via Subsidization 1192  Yuksel, Murat University of Nevada, Reno  Quint, Thomas University of Nevada, Reno  Guvenc, Ismail Florida International University  Saad, Walid University of Miami  Kapucu, Naim University of Central Florida  Stable Real-Time Pricing and Sc heduling for Serving Opportunistic users with Deferrable Loads 1200  Dalkilic, Ozgur Ohio State University  Eryilmaz, Atilla Ohio State University  Lin, Xiaojun Purdue University  Implementing Sponsored Conten t in Wireless Data Networks 1208  Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  


ThC6 \226 Deletion Codes: Bounds and Applications Visitor Center   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dolecek, Lara University of Califo rnia, Los Angeles  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois A Practical Framework for Efficient File Synchronization 1213  Bitouz\351, Nicolas University of California, Los Angeles  Sala, Frederic University of California, Los Angeles  Tabatabaei Yazdi, S.M. Sadegh University of California, Los Angeles  Dolecek, Lara University of California, Los Angeles  An Improvement of the Deletion Channel Capacity Upper Bound 1221  Rahmati, Mojtaba Arizona State University  Duman, Tolga M Arizona State University and Bilkent University  On the Number of Subsequences Obtained via the Deletion Channel n/a  Yuvalal, Liron The Open University of Israel  Langberg, Michael State University of New York, Buffalo Efficient Interactive Algorithms for F ile Synchronization under General Edits 1226  Venkataramanan, Ramji University of Cambridge  Narasimha Swamy, Vasuki University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  ThD1 \226 Sparse Data Analysis Library   Chair Studer, Christoph Rice University Recovering Sparse Low-Rank Bloc ks in Tandem Mass Spectrometry n/a  Studer, Christoph Rice University  Pope, Graeme ETH Zurich  Navarro, Pedro Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz  Baraniuk, Richard Rice University  GROTESQUE: Noisy Group Testing \(Quick and Efficient 1234  Cai, Sheng The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Jahangoshahi, Mohammad Sharif University of Technology  Bakshi, Mayank Institute of Network Coding  Jaggi, Sidharth The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Compressed Sensing of Streaming Data 1242  Freris, Nikolaos M 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326\347al, Orhan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  A Fast Hadamard Transform for Signals with Sub-Linear Sparsity 1250  Scheibler, Robin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Haghighatshoar, Saeid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  


Sample-Optimal Average-Case Sparse Fo urier Transform in Two Dimensions 1258  Ghazi, Badih Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Hassanieh, Haitham Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Indyk, Piotr Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Katabi, Dina Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Price, Eric Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Shi, Lixin Massachusetts Institute of Technology Guarantees of Total Variation Mi nimization for Signal Recovery 1266  Cai, Jian-Feng University of Iowa  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  ThD2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing II Solarium   Chair Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Adaptive Stochastic Convex Optimization Over Networks 1272  Towfic, Zaid J University of California, Los Angeles  Sayed, Ali H University of California, Los Angeles  A Routing Problem in a Simple Queueing Syst em with Non-Classical Information Structure 1278  Ouyang, Yi University of Michigan  Teneketzis, Demosthenis University of Michigan  On the Necessary Conditions for Distributed Observability n/a  Doostmohammadian, Mohammadreza Tufts University  Khan, Usman A Tufts University  Sequential Supervised Learning n/a  Wang, Joseph Boston University  Trapeznikov, Kirill Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Fusion Center Feedback for Quasi-Decentr alized Estimation in Sensor Networks 1285  Michelusi, Nicol\362 University of Southern California  Mitra, Urbashi University of Southern California  ThD3 \226 Information Theory IV Butternut   Chair Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Inst. of Tech, Madras The Gaussian Two-Way Diamond Channel 1292  V, Prathyusha Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Thangaraj, Andrew Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Capacity to within a Constant Gap fo r a Class of Interference Relay Channels 1300  Bassi, Germ\341n Sup\351lec  Piantanida, Pablo Sup\351lec  Yang, Sheng Sup\351lec  


The State-Dependent Broadcast Channel with Cooperation 1307  Dikstein, Lior Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Steinberg, Yossef Technion - Israel Institute of Technology An Analysis of the Joint Compute-and-Forward Decoder for the Binary-Input Two-Way Relay Channel 1314  Hern, Brett Texas A&M University  Narayanan, Krishna Texas A&M University  The Generalized Degrees of Freedom of the Int erference Relay Channel with Strong Interference 1321  Gherekhloo, Soheyl Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Chaaban, Anas Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Sezgin, Aydin Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Optimal Jamming Over Additive No ise: Vector Source-Channel Case 1329  Akyol, Emrah University of California, Santa Barbara  Rose, Kenneth University of California, Santa Barbara  ThD4 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems II Pine   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Distributed Stopping in Average Consensus via Event-Triggered Strategies 1336  Manitara, Nicolaos University of Cyprus  Hadjicostis, Christoforos N University of Cyprus  Stochastic Models and Control fo r Electrical Power Line Temperature 1344  Bienstock, Daniel Columbia University  Blanchet, Jose Columbia University  Li, Juan Columbia University  Applicability of Topology Control Algorit hms \(TCA\e Power System 1349  Goldis, Evgeniy A Boston University  Li, Xiaoguang Boston University  Caramanis, Michael C Boston University  Keshavamurthy, Bhavana PJM  Patel, Mahendra PJM  Rudkevich, Aleksandr M Newton Energy Group Ruiz, Pablo A  Charles River Associates Retail Pricing for Stochastic Demand with Unknown Parameters An Online Machine Learning Approach 1353  Jia, Liyan Cornell University  Zhao, Qing University of California, Davis  Tong, Lang Cornell University  Virtual Oscillator Control for Voltage Source Inverters 1359  Dhople, Sairaj V University of Minnesota  Johnson, Brian B National Renewable Energy Laboratory  Hamadeh, Abdullah O Rutgers University  


ThD5 \226 Networks, Gam es and Algorithms IV Lower Level   Chair Lu, Yi University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Contagion and Observability in Security Domains 1364  Bachrach, Yoram Microsoft Research Cambridge Draief, Moez Imperial College  Goyal, Sanjeev University of Cambridge  Targeted Matrix Completion n a  Ruchansky, Natali Boston University  Crovella, Mark Boston University  Terzi, Evimaria Boston University  Random Matrix Theory Approach to Spectral Clustering n/a  Lelarge, Marc INRIA and \311cole Normale Sup\351rieure Optimal Distributed Scheduling in Wirele ss Networks under SINR Interference Model 1372  Chaporkar, P Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai  Proutiere, A KTH Royal Institute of Technology  Load Balancing with Deadlines and Graph Constraints n/a  Moharir, Sharayu Arun University of Texas, Austin  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Shakkottai, Sanjay University of Texas, Austin  Curbing Delays in Datacenters Need Time to Save Time n/a  Alizadeh Attar, Mohammadreza Insieme Networks  Katti, Sachin Stanford University Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  ThD6 \226 Topics in Cryptography Vistior Center   Chair Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duursma, Iwan University of Illinois  Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois How to Encrypt Software  n/a  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles  On the Cost of Information-Theoretic Cryptography n/a  Ishai, Yuval Technion - Israel Institute of Technology From Unprovability to Environmentally Friendly Protocols n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Lin, Huijia Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Boston University  Pass, Rafael Cornell University  Cryptography, Causality, and Coding n/a  Smith, Adam Pennsylvania State University  


Obfuscation for Evasive Functions n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Bitansky, Nir Tel Aviv University  Barak, Boaz Microsoft Research  Kalai, Yael Microsoft Research  Paneth, Boaz Microsoft Research  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles FrPP - Plenary Talk:  C odes for the Storage Cloud Library   Chair Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois Codes for the Storage Cloud n a  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  FrA1 \226 Wireless Communications II   Chair Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University Small Cell Networks: Speed based Power Allocation 1380  Kavitha, Veeraruna Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Capdevielle, Veronique Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Gupta, Manu K Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Distributed Power Control in Femto Ce lls using Bayesian Density Tracking 1388  Hanif, Ahmed Farhan Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Tembine, Hamidou Sup\351lec  Assaad, Mohamad Sup\351lec  Zeghlache, Djamal Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Renewable Energy Scheduling for Fading Ch annels with Maximum Power Constraint 1394  Wang, Zhe Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  Analysis and Design of Spectrum Sh aring in Cognitive Femtocell Networks 1401  Zhou, Xiangwei Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Al-Hraishawi, Hayder Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Jia, Yupeng National Instruments  Channel-Adaptive Spectrum Detection and Sensin g Strategy for Cognitive Radio Ad Hoc Networks 1408  Lu, Yuan North Carolina State University  Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University  Quantized Auction Schemes for Secondary Spectrum Markets 1415  Palguna, Deepan Purdue University  Love,  David J Purdue University  Pollak, Ilya Purdue University  Performance Analysis of Coexisting Secondary users in Heterogeneous Cognitive Radio Network 1422  Li, Xiaohua State University of New York, Binghamton  Xiong, Chengyu State University of New York, Binghamton  


FrA2 \226 Statistical Signal Processing Solarium   Chair  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University Nearly Optimal Sample Size in Hypothesis Testing for High-Dim ensional Regression 1427  Javanmard, Adel Stanford University  Montanari, Andrea Stanford University  Distributed Online Big Data Classifi cation using Context Information 1435  Tekin, Cem University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Compressed Hypothesis Testing: To Mix or Not to Mix 1443  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  Lai, Lifeng Worcester Polytechnic Institute  Sparse Signal Recovery under Poisson Statistics 1450  Motamedvaziri, Delaram Boston University  Rohban, Mohammad H Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Efficient Probabilistic Group Testing based on Traitor Tracing 1458  Laarhoven, Thijs Eindhoven University of Technology  Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs via Convex Relaxation n/a  Chandrasekaran, Venkat California Institute of Technology  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Time-Variant Regularization in Affine Projection Algorithms 1466  Ba, Amadou IBM Research  McKenna, Sean IBM Research  Cloud K-SVD: Computing Data-Adaptive Representations in the Cloud 1474  Raja, Haroon Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  FrA3 \226 Information Aggregation Over Social Networks Butternut   Chair Hassanzadeh, Farzad University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology The Maximum Likelihood Approach to Voting on Social Networks 1482  Conitzer, Vincent Duke University  Building Consensus via Iterative Voting n/a  Farnoud \(Hassanzadeh California Institute of Technology  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology  Touri, Behrouz Georgia Institute of Technology Bruck, Jehoshua California Institute of Technology  CP-Nets with Indifference  1488  Allen, Thomas E University of Kentucky  


Computing Parametric Rankin g Models via Rank-Breaking n/a  Azari Soufiani, Hossein Harvard University  Parkes, David Harvard University  Xia, Lirong Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  On the Dynamics of Influence Networks via Reflected Appraisal n/a  Bullo, Francesco University of California, Santa Barbara Social Group Utility Maximization Game with Applications in Mobile Social Networks 1496  Gong, Xiaowen Arizona State University  Chen, Xu Arizona State University  Zhang, Junshan Arizona State University  Credibility Optimization and Power Co ntrol for Secure Mobile Crowdsourcing 1501  Ahmed, Kishwar Florida International University  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Turnewitsch, Vance Marietta College  Vasilakos, Athanasios V National Technical University of Athens  Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network 1509  Liu, Yang University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  FrA4 \226 Network Coding Pine   Chair Dimakis, Alex University of Southern California Secure Network Coding with Erasures and Feedback 1517  Czap, L\341szl\363 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Prabhakaran, Vinod M Tata Institute of Fundamental Research  Diggavi, Suhas University of California, Los Angeles  Index Coding Problem with Side Information Repositories 1525  Shanmugam, Karthikeyan University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alexandros G University of Texas, Austin  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  Complexity and Rate-Distortion Tradeoff via Successive Refinement 1531  No, Albert Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  On a Capacity Equivalence Between Mult iple Multicast and Multiple Unicast 1537  Wong, M.F California Institute of Technology  Langberg, M State University of New York, Buffalo Effros, M California Institute of Technology  On the Capacity of Sum-Networks 1545  Rai, Brijesh Kumar Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  Das, Niladri Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  


Duality Codes and the Integral ity Gap Bound for Index Coding 1553  Yu, Hao University of Southern California  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  On the Structure of Approximately Optimal Schedules for Half-Duplex Diamond Networks 1561  Brahma, Siddhartha 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326zg\374r, Ayfer Stanford University  FrA5 \226 Topology and Control Lower Level   Chair Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Co-Chair Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois Double Bracket Flows, Toda Flows and Rigid Body Toda 1567  Bloch, Anthony M University of Michigan  Gay-Balmaz, Fran\347ois 311cole Normale Sup\351rieure  Ratiu, Tudor S 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Topological Obstructions to Dist ributed Feedback Stabilization 1573  Mansouri, Abdol-Reza Queen's University  Contact Geometry of Optimal Control Problems n/a  Ohsawa, Tomoki University of Michigan, Dearborn  Equivariant Morse Theory for Formation Control 1576  Helmke, Uwe University of W\374rzburg  Anderson, Brian D.O Australian National University  Towards Discrete Geometric Boundary Co ntrol of Lagrangian Field Theories n/a  Leok, Melvin University of California, San Diego  Structure and Geometry of Minimum-Tim e Trajectories for Planar Rigid Bodies 1584  Futuna, Andrei A Dartmouth College  Wang, Weifu Dartmouth College  Lyu, Yu-Han Dartmouth College  Balkcom, Devin Dartmouth College  Real and Apparent Synchronization n/a  Brockett, Roger Harvard University  Rauch and Bonnet-Myers Type Comparison Theorems in Sub-Riemannian Geometry n/a  Zelenko, Igor Texas A&M University  


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


