Managing and Analysing Big Audio Data for Environmental Monitoring 
Paul Roe, Shufei Duan, Xueyan Dong Michael Towsey, Jason Wimmer School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Queensland University of Technology Brisbane, Australia contact author: jinglan.zhang@qut.edu.au   
Abstract 
Anthony Truskinger 
  Jinglan Zhang, Kai Huang, Mark Cottman-Fields 
Environmental monitoring is becoming critical as human activity and climate change place greater pressures on biodiversity, leading to an increasing need for data to make informed decisions. Acoustic sensors can help collect data across large areas for extended periods making them attractive 
 I NTRODUCTION  Climate change and human activity are subjecting the environment to unprecedented rates of change. Large scale 
in environmental monitoring.  However, managing and analysing large volumes of environmental acoustic data is a great challenge and is consequently hindering the effective utilization of the big dataset collected.  This paper presents an overview of our current techniques for collecting, storing and analysing large volumes of acoustic data efficiently, accurately and cost-effectively 
I 
Keywords- acoustic sensing; acoustic data analysis; big data management and processing; environmental monitoring visualization; citizen science; eScience 
 
 
 
environmental monitoring to manage environmental change is becoming critical. Acoustic sensing is an effective tool for monitoring species that have regular and predictable vocalisations such as birds, and offers an enduring record to allow for future interpretation of results [1   In order to provide insights into ecosystem dynamics, the Bioacoustics Research Group collects acoustic data for a range of projects, including investigating rare birds, koala behaviour, and monitoring the environment of Samford Valley's \(located 20 kilometres northwest of Brisbane The collection of data is very important.  The ability of analyzing and using the data effectively is even more 
important.   The group aims to provide helpful tools for ecologists, focusing on automated, semi-automated and manual faunal acoustic event detection and identification The tools provide information and computational technologies for all aspects of acoustic analysis of data collected through environmental monitoring While acoustic sensors are attractive as autonomous data collectors, there are significant issues associated with largescale data manipulation and analysis An acoustic sensor can generate several gigabytes of compressed data per day. Long term recordings to monitor species richness or changes in species composition in large areas can generate large volumes of data. These large 
quantities of raw acoustic data must be stored, analysed and summarised. However, the raw audio data recorded from fields directly is difficult to analyse due to various levels of background noise, variation in species vocalisations and overlapping vocalisations. Therefore, the analysis of acoustic sensor data for environmental monitoring is a complex and difficult task This research seeks to address the analysis of large volumes of acoustic sensor data by humans or computer programs or a combination of both. The main purpose is to ensure the reliable, efficient and rapid recognition of acoustic events in audio recorded directly from the field This paper presents an overview of our current techniques 
for analysing large volumes of acoustic data There are other research projects around the world which are related to automating environmental monitoring using acoustic and other sensors.  Representative research includes Stuart Gageês Remote Environmental Assessment Laboratory \(REAL 1 The REAL project focuses on soundscape interpretation and ecosystem dynamics at high level over a long period.  The AMIBIO project 2 focuses on automatic acoustic biodiversity monitoring and the analysis of acquired data.   Other researchers in the area of ecological research via bioacoustics include Jerome Seuer 
3 who studies animal diversity at both species and community levels, and Stuart Parson 4 who focuses on animal behaviour. Our research focuses on terrestrial bioacoustic monitoring. The other projects described here are conducted mainly by ecologists, whereas we focus on developing tools to support ecologists to conduct research 
 
 The remainder of this paper is organised as follows Section 2 outlines the data collection approaches employed in our system and their potential applications. Section 3 discusses the nature of the da taset, strategies for managing the large volume of audio data and the framework for data 
management. Section 4 describes requirements, challenges and techniques for analysing big environmental data Section 5 presents different data visualization techniques employed in the system.  Finally Section 6 concludes the paper and discusses future work    1 http://www.real.msu.edu 2 http://www.amibio-project.eu 3 http://sueur.jerome.perso.neuf.fr 4 http://www.eab.auckland ac.nz/parsons.html 
2013 IEEE 16th International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering 978-0-7695-5096-1/13 $31.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CSE.2013.146 997 
2013 IEEE 16th International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering 978-0-7695-5096-1/13 $31.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CSE.2013.146 997 


       
         
     
A Networked Sensors for Near Real-Time Sensing B Audio Recorders for Continuous Sensing C Handheld Devices for Ad-hoc Sensing A Characteristics of the dataset B Data storage 
II D ATA C OLLECTION AND U PLOAD  Sound is collected by two means: acoustic sensor networks and recorders. We are also developing a mobile app to allow users to record and upload audio data using their mobile phones [2  T h e w e bs ite   http://sensor.mquter.qut.edu.au provides an interface for users to access the acoustic data, annotate sounds of interest and perform various types of analysis. This portal provides the following core functionality Data upload and storage Data organisation and structuring Audio recording playback and visualisation Data analysis and annotation We describe different data collection approaches below These devices provide a near real-time sensing in locations with 3G connectivity. Due to bandwidth constraints and 3G transmission costs, they are configured to activate at regular intervals \(typically two to four minutes at half hourly intervals\, upload data to a central repository and then deactivate until the next scheduled recording. These networked sensors consist of a 3G smart phone \(HTC\, an electret-style external microphone, pre-amplifier, DC-DC converter and a solar panel as an external power supply. The system is capable of operating continuously and autonomously for months at a time with minimal maintenance. Uninterrupted, continuous deployments of 18 months have been achieved to date. Recordings are sampled at 22,050 Hz \(or subsequently down-sampled to this value and at a bit rate of 16 Audio recorders are designed to provide a short term or ad hoc high resolution acoustic sensing capability but can be configured to record continuously for extended periods Recorded acoustic data is stored internally and the device can record continuously for around 2 weeks. These sensors are highly portable and powered by batteries for ad hoc deployments or externally using a solar power supply for fixed deployments. They are self-contained in an all-weather container. All recordings so far were obtained from various locations around Australia. The recorders returned recordings of up to a day in duration We are also developing a mobile application to allow users to use mobile phones to record audio data of interest and upload them into the central repository. These recordings are typically short \(maximum a few minutes\d people can record them whenever they hear interesting things. This mobile app can be used by general citizens to collect audio data for research purposes.  The users will also be able to write brief descriptions about the audio data, view the spectrogram or waveform of the audio and mark and comment on relevant events. For example, if the audio recorded contains a specific bird call, the user can submit the audio file to our website along with a description and ask the system to suggest the type of bird it is or if there are there any similar calls in the system III S TORAGE AND M ANAGEMENT  Acoustic sensing provides ecologists with the capability to massively scale ecological observations, both temporally and spatially. At long term scales, even scheduled recordings e.g. five minute recordings every 30 minutes\ provide ecologists with significantly more data than manually collected long term survey data Sensors provide an effective means to accumulate data at large scales and high resolutions. Acoustic sensors have been employed in this capacity for some time, both in marine and terrestrial environments [4  Th ey can b e u s e d  to c o ll ect  dat a  passively, objectively and continuously across large areas for extended periods of time. While these factors make acoustic sensors attractive as autonomous data collectors, large scale data collection presents its own problems Data volume Ö acoustic sensors generate vast quantities of raw audio data which must be stored analysed and summarized Data variety Ö different types of sensors are used in different cases.  Different data formats and different resolutions have to be accommodated.  Even recordings from the same sensor vary a lot depending on the distance between the sound source and the microphone as well as the environment e.g. an open space or a dense bush area Data velocity Ö For long term environmental monitoring, data will be collected continuously therefore the data volume will keep increasing.  The speed of increase depends on how many sensors are used and the corresponding recording schedule e.g continuous recording or periodical recording As an indication of the volume and velocity of data produced by a single acoustic sensor, recording in MP3 format at 44.1 kHz, 128 kbps for 24 hours generates 1.3GB of data [3 Ou r r e p o s i t o ry c u rr en t l y h o l d s ov e r  24 TB  of  acoustic data and keeps growing. To monitor larger areas with more sensors in the future, the volume produced and velocity of production will grow rapidly Acoustic data are structured on a hierarchical model of Projects, Sites and Recordings. A project can represent any logical collection of experiments or studies and specifies usersê level of access. Each project consists of a collection of Sites. Sites are physical locations with sensors deployed at each site. Sensors details are stored to ensure retention of experimental design details. Recordings are the raw acoustic data files collected from sensor devices in the field and uploaded to the website 
998 
998 


 
  
C Query support D Data management framework 
Data is stored on a central server: raw sound is stored in a file system and sound metadata, tags and other data are stored in a database. In this way, large sound files can be stored efficiently in a regular file system: currently this is hosted by a dedicated file server. The simple file based interface lends itself to more sophisticated hosting for example by portioning across a set of file servers or even a cloud based solution. Long recordings are split into fixedlength segments with configurable lengths. For example, a continuous 24-hour recording can be divided into 240 sixminute segments. This allows the user to start listening at a particular time offset without requiring the entire 24-hour recording.  On the other hand metadata is stored in a relational database, permitting the efficient querying and selection of meta-data. This is important to enable fast and efficient navigation to data on the web server. It also permits complex data sets to be formed through relational joining of metadata The system currently supports four types of queries spatial, temporal, annotation, and project. These query types will be expanded to support more flexible and complex queries in the future. Spatial queries return all recordings gathered from a specific location such as the Samford research facility. Temporal queries return all recordings gathered between time ranges \(e.g. 11:00am  and 3:00pm\ or date ranges \(e.g. 2009-10-01 to 2009-10-14\. Annotation based queries return all recordings with certain tags or frequency and duration bounds. Project-based queries return all recordings associated with a project.  We are currently developing techniques for Query-by-example, that is content-based audio searching which we call Find Event Like This We have designed and partially implemented a multilayer data management framework shown in Fig. 1. This system includes four layers: 1\ data collection layer for collecting and uploading data, 2\ data management layer for storing and accessing data, 3\ event processing layer for extracting useful events, and 4\ data mining layer for correlation analysis and knowledge discovery There is a user interface for each layer.  In the data collection layer, uses can upload data from recorders e.g Song Meters or mobile sensors either manually or programmatically.  In the data management layer, users can access the raw audio data directly, listen to them, or search them based on some meta data such as time or location.  In the event processing layer, users can detect events using some automated tools or manually marquee events on the audio display directly or annotate some events with the help of machine recommendations. In the data mining layer, users can use customized tools or commercial software to analyse the events together with related meta data and conduct statistical analysis, correlation analysis, trend analysis etc   Figure 1 E NVIRONMENTAL A UDIO D ATA A NALYSIS  Detecting and identifying individual species vocalisations against a background of general noise and other vocalisations is a complex and challenging task First, we work with raw environmental audio contaminated by noise and artefacts, and containing calls that vary greatly in volume and clarity depending on the animalês proximity to the microphone and the surrounding environment. Second, initial experimentation suggested that no single recogniser could deal with the enormous variety of calls. Therefore, we developed a toolbox f ge ner i c recognisers to extract invariant features for each call type The automated recognition of animal calls has not yet reached a level of reliability that allows ecologists to use the methods without careful verification of results. It makes sense to offer semi-automated tools which allow an adjustable degree of user interaction with the data. The identification of animal calls in arbitrary recordings of the environment remains a difficult task. We believe that it is most unlikely that automated generic recognition of animal vocalisations with high accuracy and consistency will be achieved in the near future. Consequently semi-automated methods involving algorithms and people will be required for accurate and consistent analysis of environmental acoustic data for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our group is researching approaches to audio analysis with both human computation and automatic detection This research has led to the development of species specific recognisers that have influenced a number of realworld applications, which include invasive \(cane toad and asian house gecko\nd endangered \(Koala, Lewin's Rail species monitoring. In addition, species richness studies based on random sampling of acoustic sensor data have been demonstrated to be comparable to traditional survey techniques, such as bird point count surveys [4   
Multi-layer data management for environmental monitoring via Acoustics IV 
 
999 
999 


Although we have used sensors to a large collection of data, analysing the huge dataset has posed a great challenge  Any application that offers analysis tools to ecologists must necessarily offer graded levels of utility from fully manual to fully automated.  Traditionally acoustics is used by scientists to study a particular species, especially birds frogs 1 i o a co usti c monitoring and powerful analysis of big data set have enormous potential to help ecologists scale fauna surveys and enable new form of research. Typical ecological questions to be answered using the results of sound analysis include the followings Species presence/absence e.g. are there any koalas Species abundance e.g. how many koalas there Species richness/diversity e.g. how many different species of birds there Behavioural studies e.g. how is a pest species spreading What is the relationship between behaviour and environment Habitat disturbance e.g. how is land use change affecting the habitat of koalas Environmental health measurement e.g. what value does a particular environmental bank have Apart from the general short computation time and high accuracy requirements, one more constraint on the data analysis tools is that they must be easy to use and flexible to accommodate scientistsê needs Two main issues with environmental data are noise and variability. Other issues include unpredictable, dynamic, and overlapping etc Low Signal-to-Noise-Ratio \(SNR\ Most approaches on this study are based on analysis of data collected in the lab, which means they can depress the noise from other sources so that their data has high SNR. Different from their data, our real world data tend to comprise of mixture of sounds from various sources, which has quite low SNR. Environmental acoustics contain a wide variety of non biological noises such as traffic noise having a great range of intensities and a variety of animal sounds that have nothing to do with the task at hand Large variation of calls between different bird species regions and environments. There are three cases causing variations. The first is distance variation. Birds may fly far away from or close to recorders, resulting in different appearance of bird calls in the spectrogram. The second is Local Call Variations. The same type of birds can have a broad range of vocalisations and these vocalisations may have significant regional variation Even in some special case, some birds mimic sounds of other birds so as to bring misinformation. The third one is environmental variations. The environmental noise including songs from wind, rain and human activity can have great changes over time. Also environmental factors such as wind, rain, vegetation and topography can attenuate, muffle and distort vocalisations considerably Dynamic and unpredictable. In many cases, there is no certain sequential pattern in environmental sound as the presence/absence of certain birds or insects etc can be random. For example, in urban environments traffic noises, air-conditioners, human speech, dogs barking and airplanes can interfere. This brings a challenge in detecting target calls from background noise in an automated way Overlapping. A large number of acoustic events overlap with each other at dawn chorus making it very difficult to recognise individual bird calls To sum up, environmental sounds are noisy, unstructured dynamic and unpredictable.  It is very difficult to build models for environmental sounds, causing problems for environmental sound analysis The simplest approach of analysing the audio data collected by sensors is to make use of citizen scientists These keen enthusiasts are often interested in listening through the audio data to catalogue the species heard within However, this process, is time consuming and inefficient The manual approach involves an audio player and some way to take notes Additionally, many of the citizen volunteers have considerable expertise in identifying fauna by their vocalisations. However, not all of the participants that contribute are experts and many need help. Even for our expert volunteers, they are often only experts for one ecological region Ö outside their geographic area of expertise, their identification capabilities diminish Automated animal call recognition has the potential to dramatically improve the ability of ecologists to monitor the environment on large spatial and temporal scales [11, 12   There are mainly two types of recognisers and they both use lots of parameters: species specific recognisers \(e.g. Koala recogniser\, and generalised recognisers \(e.g. çFind Event Like Thisé search in databases\ The approach taken by most call recognition methods to date is to construct a detailed representation of each call of interest. This of course requires detailed prior knowledge based on the collection of a large number of representative calls. A general recogniser is much 
   
          
A Environmental Data Analysis Requirements and Challenges Data Analysis Requirements for environmental monitoring  Challenges in environmental audio data analysis  B Manual Processing Approach \(by Experts and Citizen Scientists C Automated Approach 
          
insects, and some mammals  
1000 
1000 


 
Time-frequency spectrogram  Strepera graculina D Semi-Automated Approach 
harder to develop as it is very difficult to define a general feature set that can be used to recognise all bird calls The majority of our automated analysis tools are based on the analysis the which is a popular way of representing sound.  This representation suits well for both manual labelling of events on the spectrum and automated analysis.  Chang-Hsing Lee also proposed a new feature descriptor [1  th at  u s es im ag e s h a p e f e atu r es t o  identify bird species, which is based on the recognition of gray-level birdsong spectrograms. Another typical representation of sound is waveform, which is in the time domain The raw data we collected \(sound recordings in waveforms\ is first processed by noise reduction using signal processing techniques, which is followed by transforming the waveform into a spectrogram prepared using the ShortTime Fourier Transform \(STFT The majority of our call recognition algorithms employ features derived from spectrograms [5, 7 T h e si gna l i s  framed using a window of 512 samples \(23.2ms\ which offers a reasonable compromise between time and frequency resolution. All the automated, semi-automated recognizing and binary template matching are based on the timefrequency spectrum Representative examples of recognition techniques we have implemented include [1   MFCC features + HMMs: We have found this technique to be suitable only for high quality single-syllable calls. We used the Hidden Markov Model Tool Kit \(HTK\ [2 a nd applied it to the recognition of Pied Currawong calls Acoustic Event Detection \(AED\: We developed AED to extract information about the distribution of acoustic energy in a spectrogram using the minimum of prior knowledge AED processes the spectrogram like an image and returns rectangular marquees around isolated acoustic events Oscillation Detection \(OD\: We used a Discrete Cosine Transform to find repeating or oscillating elements of calls within a user specified bandwidth Event Pattern Recognition \(EPR\his technique extracts acoustic events from the spectrogram, and then detects a 2D pattern of events whose distribution matches a template Acoustic Component Detection: We define generic acoustic components in the spectrogram such as lines usually with angles\ oscillations, stacked harmonics, and others. A set of acoustic components which are distinguished from each other are built. Feature vectors of different acoustic components are extracted or defined in order to develop detectors for each component Syntactic Pattern Recognition \(SPR\: this technique models a call as a symbol sequence, each symbol selected from a finite alphabet representing èprimitiveê elements of the composite pattern. Seven broad types of èprimitive elements have been defined to construct various animal calls 7   Similarity Search \(SS\ In the process of SS, an arbitrary acoustic event can be provided, and our algorithm will automatically scan through the continuous recording to find the similar events. In this research, we have identified a new type of features which can be used for similar search in environmental audio dataset.  The initial experimental result with a small dataset is very promising. We are trying to do more experiment on a relatively larger dataset The techniques of automated recognition of animal calls are improving over the time.  However, the average recognition accuracy is still very low.  These techniques have not yet reached a level of reliability that allows ecologists to use the methods without careful verification of results Manual analysis utilises the sophisticated recognition capabilities of a human user, but cannot be efficiently scaled to process the volumes of data collected in long-term sensor deployments. Automated techniques are effective for identifying some targeted species in large volumes of data but they require a high degree of skill to develop and are currently not able to cope with the variability found in animal calls Combining manual and automated approaches provides users with the ability to analyse large volumes of acoustic data interactively and systematically. Semi-automated analysis takes advantage of the fact that human analysis capabilities are currently superior to that of automated computational analysis tools To deal with these challenges, our research has identified the need to provide participants with flexibility when analysing acoustic data. Using technology to assist a manual process helps increase the efficiency of our citizen scientists As more concepts are added, we automate more of the manual process Ö this is the spectrum of semi-automated analysis. This spectrum of semi-automated annotation techniques include any form of digital assistance, be it with tools, user interfaces, or collaboration techniques. The automation components may be small initially, but as we add more and more techniques, the system will be less manual and more auto. The semi-automated analysis is a spectrum and heading towards more and more automated We continue to investigate the role of citizen scientists in analysing large volumes of environmental acoustic data in order to identify bird species. Specifically, we investigate ways in which the efficiency of a user can be improved through the use of species identification suggestion tools guided virtual bird walks, the addition of contextual information, and the use of reputation models to predict the accuracy of users with unknown skill levels. The aim is to combine these tools together to allow large volumes of data to be processed effectively by participants with expertise in varying environments and species [8-1   Further to this goal, we have researched the following forms of assistance that are designed to help our participants when they are analysing acoustic data Online collaboration [10 en a b les  u s e r s to  sc ale  m a n u a l analysis by allowing multiple users to collaborate on identification and annotation issues. Collaboration, through discussion, is also used as a verification mechanism for uncertain identifications Online species identification library: To reduce the time taken to identify vocalisations and to improve the 
1001 
1001 


  
  
E Data Mining for Knowledge Discovery A Time-frequency spectrogram 
consistency of novice users, the online species identification library can enable comparisons of a call in a spectrogram with spectrograms of previously identified species vocalisation exemplars Suggestion Tool: An extension the species identification library is the suggestion tool. Deigned to work while a participant is actively annotating, this tool acts like an autocomplete-box would; it offers real-time suggestions of what acoustic event a participant may be actively annotating [8    Rapid spectrogram scanning: When analysing acoustic data there are two problems: identification and classification Some vocalisations have a unique and characteristic appearance that people can recognise amongst other vocalisations even in complex acoustic environments. Since we use human participants that are shown spectrograms, it is possible take advantage of the advanced recognition capabilities of the human visual cortex. For vocalisations that have a unique or pronounced appearance in a spectrogram, it is possible to significantly increase the speed at which our human participants can process these spectrograms. This is achieved by disabling audio playback, and flashing successive spectrograms past participants at high speeds. We have achieved as much as 12x speedup for time taken to identify a species in a section of audio [7  Tag validation, correction, and linking: We choose to use a folksonomy tagging system to label our annotations. The tags are descriptive and free form, however, as is the case with most systems that have human components, errors are generated. We have done work to automatically correct clean, and link our folksonomic tags to taxonomic data structures [6 En s u rin g  th e tag s on ou r an n o t a ti on s  s t ay  clean ensure our core data output for ecologists is not affected by human errors Another vein of research includes moving our participant analysis tools to mobile phone. Given that our interactive annotation editor is already web-based and the increasing capability of browsers on mobile devices, this area looks promising By using human computation approach,  ecologists and birders have helped us annotate the audio data and get the initial set of event tags, which are textual descriptions of some sound events e.g. a bird call. However, the knowledge embedded in these annotations has not been fully discovered yet. We have attempted to use data mining techniques to analyse these annotated environmental sounds considering species, location and time and try to discover knowledge embedded in the dataset.  For the initial experiment, we have used a commercial data mining software called SAS By analysing the large amount of human generated tags and correlate them with time and location, we have found the distribution of animal calls and some useful temporal and spatial relationships in the dataset collected.  Fig. 2 shows the relationship between the number of calls made \(Y-axis and different bird species \(X-axis\  It demonstrates that the majority of bird calls recorded are made by a small amount of bird species and some species rarely call \(vocally cryptic This finding is consistent with the existing ecological knowledge.  This longtail phenomenon also inspires further research into finding cryptic calls in order to conduct biodiversity analysis through audio analysis. Other findings such as most birds do not call during heavy rain are also consistent with common knowledge   Figure 2 D ATA V ISUALISATION  Data visualisation is the visual representation of data while the main goal is to communicate information clearly and effectively through graphical means. Data visualisation provides insights into a rather complex data set by communicating its key-aspects in a more intuitive way To convey ideas effectively, we use different data visualisation approaches at different processing stages The raw data we collected \(sound recordings in waveforms\ is first processed by noise reduction using signal processing techniques, which is followed by transforming the waveform into a spectrogram prepared using the ShortTime Fourier Transform \(STFT\ \(Fig 3  Figure 3 
Distribution of bird calls and species  V An example spectrogram with annotations shown The spectrogram is very useful for manual labelling and fast scanning of acoustic events. With the display of a spectrogram, while listening to the sound the user can marquee the call of interest in a noise reduced spectrogram and enters any textual comments about the marked event and corresponding sound. This forms the basis of our manual acoustic analysis approach. Fig.3 shows an example greylevel spectrogram with annotations of some events. The spectrograms can also have true colours which represent the power of the sound. The spectrogram is very intuitive to show some unique acoustic events such as rain because the sound of rain looks like rain on the spectrogram \(many vertical lines\ and many bird, insect or mammal calls have their own unique visual structures in the spectrogram 
 
1002 
1002 


  
When presenting species information e.g. bird types to users, it is ideal to link together the specific audio file, tags which are normally common names of birds appearing in the audio, scientific names, pictures of the birds, and other useful information.  Fig. 4 shows the concise representation of such linked information in our system The initial tags are generated by experienced bird watchers.  With the tags normalized, cleaned, and mapped to species names, the data is ready to be mapped to a formal taxonomic structure The Atlas of Living Australia \(ALA\an online resource that provides information on faunal species in Australia. This information can be accessed through their provided web API \(Application Programming Interface\. We choose to link to the ALA because the majority of our data involves birds \(for which the ALA has a wealth of information\ and their API is accessible and well documented The goal is to use the species name tag on each annotation to search for the associated Life Science Identifier LSID\ Each item in the species name map is searched for using the ALA API. The query is returned containing a list of search results. The taxonomic data returned is then used to provide additional relevant information to a user  Figure 4 GeoFlow is a three dimensional \(3-D\ data visualisation tool that is developed by Microsoft and integrated with Microsoft Excel 2013. It provides a powerful method for people to look at information in new ways As an Excel add-in, GeoFlow provides interactive, 3-D geospatial and temporal data visualisations. It enables users to discover and share new insi ghts from data through rich, 3D data on a globe. It could help us understand the large-scale geospatial and temporal trends behind the tedious rows and columns. 3-D display is based on Microsoft Bing Map, so it is compulsory to be connected to the internet to use GeoFlow We use GeoFlow to show the species distribution according to static geographical locations or dynamic temporal data flow. This can provide us and ecologists a quick view of the collected and recognized data, it is also a preliminary step prior to a complex data mining algorithm Below is a snapshot of temporal display created by GeoFlow  Figure 5 Our system has also implemented many other popular visualization tools. Examples include: a map to show all sensor distribution, Pie and Bar charts to demonstrate the status of sensors or users, and word cloud to show the distribution of textual tags VI C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  The ability to collect data, store and manage them is very important. The ability to analyse these data, extract useful information to help understanding the data and make informed decisions are even more important.  This paper presents an overview of various approaches of collecting managing, and analysing large volumes of audio data for environmental monitoring. These tools combined together will allow large volumes of data to be processed efficiently Currently our research focuses on terrestrial bioacoustic event analysis in audio data. We have attempted to analyse the large amount of data using three complimentary approaches: manual analysis with the help of participatory citizen scientists, semi-automated analysis which leverages on both human and machine intelligence, and automated analysis based on machine learning and pattern recognition All three approaches are aided by data visualization techniques wherever possible.  The research findings so far are promising but there are still many challenging research questions to be addressed.  In the future, we plan to conduct more research in the following areas Engaging citizen scientists to participate in the detection and identification of animal vocalisations. The current work is focusing on the identification of birds by expert birders 
   
Example of tag linking Snapshot of GeoFlow temporal display 
 
B Tag linking C 3-D display D Other general visualization tools 
  
1003 
1003 


Mason, Richard and Roe, Paul and Towsey, Michael W. and Zhang, Jinglan and Gibson, Jennifer and Gage, Stuart \(2008 Towards an acoustic environmental observatory. In Proceedings of the IEEE Fourth International Conference on eScience, 7-12 Decem ber 2008, Un iversity Place Conference Center & Hotel, Indianapolis, Indiana 2 Jinglan Zhang, Paul Roe, Binh Pham, Richard Mason Michael Towsey,  Jiro Sumitomo Archiving Nature's Heartbeat Using Smartphones In book:  Movement-Aware Applications for Sustainable Mobility: Technologies and Approaches, Author\(s\tor\(s\: Monica Wachowicz Wageningen University of Research Centre for GeoInformation, The Netherlands\, Pages 121-139 \(2010 ISBN13: 9781615207695, DOI: 10.4018/978-1-61520-769-5 Wimmer, Jason, Towsey, Michael, Planitz, Birgit Williamson, Ian, & Roe, Paul \(2012\nalysing environmental acoustic data through collaboration and automation. Future Generation Computer Systems 4 Wimmer, Jason, Towsey, Michael W., Planitz, Birgit, Roe Paul, &  Williamson, Ian \(2011\aling acoustic data analysis through collaboration and automation. In Proceedings of IEEE Sixth International Conference on eScience, IEEE, Brisbane, QLD 5 Towsey, Michael W., Planitz, Birgit, Nantes, Alfredo Wimmer, Jason, & Roe, Paul \(20 12\ toolbox for animal call recognition. Bioacoustics : The International Journal of Animal Sound and its Recording, 21\(2\pp. 107-125 6 Truskinger, A., Newmarch, I., Cottman-Fields, M., Wimmer J., Towsey, M., Zhang, J., & Roe, P. \(2013\. Reconciling Folksonomic Tagging with Taxa for Bioacoustic Annotations To be presented at the 14th International Conference on Web Information System Engineering, Nanjing, China 7 Truskinger, A., Cottman-Fields, M., Johnson, D, Roe, P 2013\apid Scanning of Spectrograms for Efficient Identification of Bioacoustic Events in Big Data. To be presented at the IEEE 9th International Conference on eScience, Beijing, China 8 Truskinger, Anthony Masters, Yang, Haofan, Wimmer, Jason Zhang, Jinglan, Williamson, Ian, & Roe, Paul \(2011\arge scale participatory acoustic sensor data analysis : tools and reputation models to enhance effectiveness. In Werner, Bob Ed.\ 7th IEEE International Conference on eScience, IEEE Computer Society, Stockholm City Conference Centre/Norra Latin, Stockholm 9 Yang, Haofan, Zhang, Jinglan, & Roe, Paul \(2012 Reputation modelling in Citizen Science for environmental acoustic data analysis. Social Network Analysis and Mining  Cottman-Fields, M., Brereton, M., & Roe, P. \(2013\ Virtual birding: extending an environmental pastime into the virtual world for citizen science. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 2013 ACM annual conference on Human factors in computing systems, Paris, France  T. Mitchell Aide, Carlos Corrada-Bravo, Marconi CamposCerqueira, Carlos Milan1, Giovany Vega, Rafael Alvarez.\(2013\al-time bioacoustics monitoring and automated species identification. PeerJ 1:e103 http://dx.doi.org/10.7717/peerj.103  Lopes, M.T., Lameiras Koerich, A., Nascimento Silla, C Alves Kaestner, C.A.\(2011\Feature set comparison for automatic bird species identification. IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics\(SMC\65 970  Duan, Shufei, Towsey, Michael W., Zhang, Jinglan Truskinger, Anthony Masters, Wimmer, Jason, & Roe, Paul 2012\ Acoustic component detection for automatic species recognition in environmental monitoring. In 7 th International Conference on Intelligent Sensors, Sensor Networks and Information Pro cessing\(ISSNIP 2011 6 - 9 D ecember 2011 Hilton Hotel, Adelaide, SA  Shufei Duan, Jinglan Zhang, Paul Roe, Michael Towsey 2012\, A survey of tagging techniques for music, speech and environmental sound. Artificial Intelligence Review, 1-25  Chang-Hsing, Lee, Sheng-Bin, Hsu, Jau-Ling, Shih, ChihHsun, Chou \(2013\ontinuous Birdsong Recognition Using Gaussian Mixture Modeling of Image Shape Features. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, 15\(2\, pp:454 Ö 464    
               
The development of interfaces for automated tools that are usable by participants. Currently, our automated analysis are very technical, their parameters are full of jargon, and they take long amounts of time to run. If possible, it would be much more efficient to integrate these automatic tools into our interactive annotation environment, whilst somehow hiding their complexity and allowing our participant scientists to make the most of them Mobile support: We will research ways to allow mobile users to interact with the data more effectively.   For example, we are building mobile applications to allow search and retrieve acoustic data from the central database by providing sample audios Data mining. Although ecologists and birders have helped generate a large amount of tags and we have experimented mining some knowledge based on the textual tags, more extensive correlation analysis between bird calls, bird behaviors, environment, time location needs to be conducted Flexible user query support.  We will build more flexible user interfaces such as supporting queries by words e.g return all afternoon recordings containing a specific bird call All the efforts mentioned will allow our system to be more powerful and easier to use thus enabling ecologists citizens and policy makers to utilize the big dataset to gather useful information more conveniently, in order to better understand the environment and make informed decisions A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research is part of an on-going project undertaken in the QUT Bioacoustics Research Group which is funded by the Queensland State Government under a Smart State Innovation Fund \(National and International Research Alliances Program\Microsoft Research and Queensland University of Technology. This research was conducted with the support of the QUT Samford Ecological Research Facility  R EFERENCES   1 
    
    
 
3 
1004 
1004 


VII F UTURE WORK Our future work is to efìciently implement more complex local search algorithms such as 2.5-opt 3-opt and LinKernighan However these require much more effort in order to be parallelized Also simple ideas such as neighborhood pruning can be applied at the cost of the quality of the solution A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported by Core Research of Evolutional Science and Technology CREST project of Japan Science and Technology Agency JST and Grant-in-Aid for Scientiìc Research of MEXT Japan R EFERENCES  Apple gate D.L Bixby  R.E Chv atal V  Cook W J The Traveling Salesman Problem A Computational Study Princeton University Press Princeton 2007  La wler  E.L Lenstra J.K Rinnoo y Kan A.H.G Shmo ys D.B The Traveling Salesman Problem A Guided Tour of Combinatorial Optimization Wiley Chichester 1985  Johnson D and McGeoch L The T ra v eling Salesman Problem A Case Study in Local Optimization Local Search in Combinatorial Optimization by E Aarts and J Lenstra Eds pp 215-310 London John Wiley and Sons 1997  Gare y  M.R and Johnson D.S Computers and Intractability A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness San Francisco W.H Freeman 1979  Croes G A.;A Method for Solving T ra v eling-Salesman Problems Operations Research November/December 1958  M A OêNeil D T amir  and M Burtscher  A P arallel GPU Version of the Traveling Salesman Problem 2011 International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Processing Techniques and Applications pp 348-353 July 2011  Dorigo M and Gambardella L.M Ant Colon y System A Cooperative Learning Approach to the Traveling Salesman Problem IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation Vol 1 No 1 pp 53-66 April 1997  Fujimoto N and Tsutsui S A Highly-P arallel TSP Solv er for a GPU Computing Platform Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol 6046 pp 264-271 2011  Reinelt G TSPLIB A T ra v eling Salesman Problem Library  ORSA Journal on Computing Vol 3 No 4 pp 376-384 Fall 1991  Re go C and Glo v er  F  Local Search and Metaheuristics The Traveling Salesman Problem and its Variations by G Gutin and A.P Punnen Eds pp 309-368 Dordrecht Kluwer Academic Publishers 2002  Lourenco H R Martin O C Stutzle T  Iterated Local Search International series in operations research and management science 2003  Karp R Reducibility among combinatorial problems In Complexity of Computer Computations Plenum Press pp 85103 New York 1972  Tsai H Y ang J Kao C Solving tra v eling salesman problems by combining global and local search mechanisms Proceedings of the 2002 Congress on Evolutionary Computation CECê02 2002  Pepper J Golden B W asil E Solving the tra v elling salesman problem with annealing-based heuristics a computational study IEEE Transactions on Man and Cybernetics Systems Part A Vol 32 No.1 pp 72-77 2002  NVIDIA CUD A Programming Guide http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/index.html  Helsgaun K An Ef fecti v e Implementation of the LinKernighan Traveling Salesman Heuristic European Journal of Operational Research 2000  Nilsson Ch Heuristics for the T ra v eling Salesman Problem Linkoping University  Bentle y  J Experiments on tra v eling salesman heuristics Proceedings of the rst annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete algorithms SODA 1990  http://www tsp.gatech.edu/concorde.html  Luong T V  Melab N T albi E.-G GPU Computing for P ar allel Local Search Metaheuristic Algorithms IEEE Transactions on Computers Vol 62 No 1 Jan 2013 
1796 


  D Sigel and D Wettergreen 223Star tracker celestial localization system for a lunar rover,\224 in Proc of the IEEE/RSJ Int Conf on Intelligent Robots and Systems 050IROS\051  29 Oct 2 Nov 2007 pp 2851\2262856   N Xiaolin and F Jiancheng 223A new autonomous celestial navigation method for the lunar rover,\224 Robotics and Autonomous Systems  vol 57 no 1 pp 48 226 54 2009   J Enright T Barfoot and M Soto 223Star tracking for planetary rovers,\224 in Proc of the IEEE Aerospace Conf  Mar 2012 pp 1\22613   M Cummins and P Newman 223FAB-MAP Probabilistic localization and mapping in the space of appearance,\224 The Int Journal of Robotics Research  vol 27 no 6 pp 647\226665 2008   M Shuster and S Oh 223Three-axis attitude determination from vector observations,\224 Journal of Guidance and Control  vol 4 no 1 pp 70\22677 1981   M Kaess H Johannsson R Roberts V Ila J J Leonard and F Dellaert 223iSAM2 Incremental smoothing and mapping using the bayes tree,\224 The Int Journal of Robotics Research 050IJRR\051  vol 31 no 2 pp 216\226 235 2012   C Tong and T D Barfoot 223Gaussian Process GaussNewton for 3D laser-based visual odometry,\224 in Proc of the IEEE Conf on Robotics and Automation 050ICRA\051 to appear  Karlsruhe Germany 6\22610 May 2013 B IOGRAPHY  Jonathan D Gammell is a Ph.D student at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 and a member of the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He holds a B.A.Sc degree 0502006\051 from the University of Waterloo 050UW\051 in Mechanical Engineering 050Physics Option With Distinction Dean's Honours List\051 and a M.A.Sc 0502010\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Aerospace Science and Engineering in the Space Robotics Group His current research focus is developing planning techniques for rovers in unstructured terrain in order to minimize their 002nal positional uncertainty Chi Hay Tong is a Ph.D candidate at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 and a member of the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He holds a B.A.Sc degree 0502008\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Computer Option\051 and his recent research focus is on laser-based mapping and navigation Peter Berczi is a M.A.Sc student at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 with the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He has a B.A.Sc 050Honours 2012\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Aerospace Option\051 His research is focused on developing a terrain assessment framework for mobile robots particularly for robots operating on the Moon or Mars Sean Anderson received a B.A.Sc degree in Mechatronics Engineering 050With Distinction Dean's Honours List\051 from the University of Waterloo 050UW\051 in 2011 Currently he is a Ph.D student in the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 His main research interest is in improving Simultaneous Localization and Mapping 050SLAM\051 algorithms for mobile robots in threedimensional unstructured terrain Timothy D Barfoot holds a B.A.Sc 050Honours 1997\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Aerospace Option\051 and a Ph.D 0502002\051 from the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 in Aerospace Engineering He is currently an Associate Professor at UTIAS where he leads the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 Before joining UTIAS he worked at MDA Space Missions in the Controls  Analysis Group on applications of mobile robotics to space exploration and underground mining Dr Barfoot is a Canada Research Chair 050Tier II\051 in Autonomous Space Robotics a Professional Engineer of Ontario and an IEEE Member John Enright holds a B.A.Sc 0501997\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 050Engineering Science Aerospace\051 and a M.S 0501999\051 and a Ph.D 0502002\051 from Massachusetts Institute of Technology 050MIT\051 in Aerospace Systems He is currently an Associate Professor in Aerospace Engineering at Ryerson University in Toronto Having joined the faculty at Ryerson University in 2003 he is now the Principal Investigator of the Space Avionics and Instrumentation Laboratory 050SAIL\051 While at MIT 0501999-2003\051 he led the software development for the SPHERES 003ight project and the GFLOPS real-time spacecraft simulation testbed His research interests include spacecraft avionics and sensor processing systems engineering and 003ight software Dr Enright is a member of the AIAA CASI and the IEEE 10 


Table 9  CMG Ops Mode Uplink Command  Description Bits Hex Chars Value Description  Operating mode ID 8 2 01 Detumble Mode  01  Beacon interval 8 2 XX 05000 to FF\051 00 corresponds to 30 s XX corresponds to increments of 10 s The frequency can be varied from 10 s to 2550 s 05042 mins\051  Battery voltage 8 2 XX 05000 to FF\051 Signed two's complement integer 0 corresponds to 7.0v each increment is 0.01 V  Uplink time 48 12 XXX year X month XX hour XX day XX minute XX second  Orbital position 192 48 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX orbital position in 0.5 meter resolution ranging from 0 to 8388.608 km XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  Orbital velocity 192 48 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX orbital velocity in 0.25 meter/s resolution ranging from 0 to 16.384 km/s XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  QUEST weights 8 2 XX 0500 to 15\051 0500 to 1\051 each increment represents 0.05  Maneuver type 4 1 X 0500 or 1\051 0  R2 1  sun pointing  Maneuver time 48 12 XXX year X month XX hour XX day XX minute XX second  Total 516 129  discussed in this paper is capable of distributed operation and is intelligently designed to perform mission operations through duty cycling of the two processing units The on orbit average power is utilized effectively to produce net positive power store it on board the Li-Po batteries and discharge them by executing high power primary mission objectives Each computing unit is designed with its own storage device to store mission speci\002c data which is downlinked during an overhead pass of the CubeSat The CDH 003ight software is designed in the form of operating modes which are capable of being commanded from ground multiple times The CubeSat is capable of teleoperation autonomous and semiautonomous operation Every operating mode is designed with a downlink telemetry budget which is designed to capture data for validating primary and secondary objectives The 003ight software and thus the CubeSat is designed for on orbit tuning through an uplink command speci\002c for each operating mode The ADS mode and CMG Ops mode are implemented as distributed operations which get initiated by the 003ight computer through ground control and are executed on the auxiliary processor Effectively the distributed computing architecture and its operational design enable a CubeSat to demonstrate precision 3-axes attitude control and showcase the potential of such a computing platform for enabling similar complex capabilities A PPENDIX For completeness and facilitation of design of tasks encountered in the various operating modes the design of the following functions is presented in the form of 003owcharts 1  Deploy antenna 050Fig 9\051 2  Safe-hold mode functions 050Fig 10\051 3  Detumble mode functions 050Fig 11\051 4  Comms mode functions 050Fig 12\051 Figure 9  Deploy Antenna 11 


Figure 10  Safe-hold Functions Figure 11  Safe-hold Functions 12 


Figure 12  Safe-hold Functions R EFERENCES   H Heidt J Puig-Suari A Moore S Nakasuka and R Twiggs 223Cubesat A new generation of picosatellite for education and industry low-cost space experimentation,\224 in Proceedings of the Utah State University Small Satellite Conference Logan UT  Citeseer 2001 pp 1\2262   J Schaffner and J Puig-Suari 223The Electronic System Design Analysis Integration and Construction of the Cal Poly State University CP1 CubeSat,\224 in 16th AIAA/USU on Small Satellites Conference Logan UT  Citeseer 2002 pp 1\2262   R Munkata 223Cubesat design speci\002cation rev 12,\224 August 2009   G Minelli A Ricco D Squires C Beasley and J Hines 223O/oreos A multi-payload technology demonstration,\224 in Proceedings of the 24th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites Logan UT  2010   C Kitts J Hines E Agasid A Ricco B Yost K Ronzano and J Puig-Suar 223The GeneSat-1 Microsatellite Mission A Challenge in Small Satellite Design,\224 in Proc 20th Annual AIAA/USU Conf on Small Satellites Logan UT  2006   D Schor J Scowcroft C Nichols and W Kinsner 223A command and data handling unit for pico-satellite missions,\224 in Electrical and Computer Engineering 2009 CCECE'09 Canadian Conference on  IEEE 2009 pp 874\226879   M Swartwout C Kitts R Twiggs B Smith T Kenny R Lu K Statten\002eld R Batra and F Pranajaya 223Flight results for the sapphire satellite a low-cost university-class mission.\224   C McBryde and E Lightsey 223A star tracker design for cubesats,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2012 IEEE  IEEE 2012 pp 1\22614   W Kinsner D Schor R Fazel-Darbandi B Cade K Anderson C Friesen D Kotelko and P Ferguson 223The t-sat1 nanosatellite team of teams,\224 in Cognitive Informatics  Cognitive Computing 050ICCI CC\051 2012 IEEE 11th International Conference on  IEEE 2012 pp 380\226390   M Swartwout and S Jayaram 223The argus mission Detecting thruster plumes for space situational awareness,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2011 IEEE  IEEE 2011 pp 1\22610   M Swartwout C Kitts P Stang and E Lightsey 223A standardized distributed computing architecture Results from three universities,\224 in Proceedings of the 19th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites  2005   I Garcia 223Texas instruments application report tms320c6711d c6712d c6713b power consumption summary,\224 http://focus.ti.com/lit/an/spra889a/spra889a.pdf 2005   223MSP430 16-bit Ultra-Low Power Micorcontroller,\224 www.ti.com/msp430   223C6000 High Performance DSP,\224 http://focus.ti.com/paramsearch/docs 13 


parametricsearch.tsp?family dspsectionId=2tabId=57familyId=132   S Asundi 223Cubesat system design based on methodologies adopted for developing wireless robotic platform,\224 Ph.D dissertation University of Florida 2011   S Asundi and N Fitz-Coy 223Cubesat mission design based on a systems engineering approach,\224 in IEEE Aerospace Conference  IEEE 2013   W Lan 223Poly Picosatellite Orbital Deployer Mk III ICD,\224 http://cubesat.calpoly.edu/images LaunchProviders/mk  iii  icd5.pdf 2007   R Nugent R Munakata A Chin R Coelho and J Puig-Suari 223The cubesat The picosatellite standard for research and education,\224 Aerospace Engineering  vol 805 pp 756\2265087 2008   J Puig-Suari C Turner and W Ahlgren 223Development of the standard CubeSat deployer and a CubeSat class PicoSatellite,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2001 IEEE Proceedings  vol 1 2001   V Galysh 223Katysat radio board rev 2.4,\224 January 2008   S Asundi M Mahin V Nagabhushan T Lin and N Fitz-Coy 223Composite and PCB Based Implementations of a Solar Panel Design for SwampSat,\224 in SmallSat Conference  2010   V Galysh 223Varta poli\003explf 503759 d.\224   M Shuster and S Oh 223Three-axis attitude determination from vector observations,\224 Journal of Guidance and Control  vol 4 no 1 pp 70\22677 1981   J Murrell 223Precision attitude determination for multimission spacecraft,\224 in Guidance and Control Conference Palo Alto Calif August 7-9 1978 Technical Papers.\050A78-50159 22-01\051 New York American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc 1978 p 7087  1978   R Kalman 223A new approach to linear 002ltering and prediction problems,\224 Journal of Basic Engineering  vol 82 no 1 pp 35\22645 1960   R Kalman and R Bucy 223New results in linear 002ltering and prediction theory,\224 Random Processes  1973 B IOGRAPHY  Sharan Asundi is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Aerospace Science Engineering at Tuskegee University He graduated with a MS and PhD in Aerospace Engineering from University of Florida in 2011 under the guidance of Dr Norman Fitz-Coy His research interests include design of autonomous ground and space systems spacecraft attitude determination and estimation vehicle health monitoring and design of small satellite mission operations Norman G Fitz-Coy is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida in Gainesville He is the Director of the Advanced Space Technologies Research and Engineering Center 050ASTREC\051 a National Science Foundation 050NSF\051 Industry/University Cooperative Research Center Dr FitzCoy's research efforts address the dynamics and controls of multi-degree-of-freedom 050M-DOF\051 systems with emphasis on space appications One of the current research interests is attitude control of small satellites 050less than 10 kg in mass\051 His research team has developed the world's smallest control moment gyroscopes and these will be 003ight veri\002ed the upcoming UF CubeSat mission SwampSat 14 


Integrating Context-Awareness and Trustworthiness in IoT Descriptions 1168 Kaiyu Wan and Vangalur Alagar Building Smart M2M Applications Using the WuKong Profile Framework 1175 Kwei-Jay Lin, Neils Reijers, Yu-Chung Wang, Chi-Sheng Shih, and Jane Y. Hsu A Human Trajectory Estimate Based on Individual Mobility Pattern Library 1181 Yang Yang, Bowen Du, and Xiao Jiang The Research on Monitoring of Discrete Manufacturing Process Based on Internet of Things 1186 Liuyin Yuan, Yu Guo, Jiajun Jiang, and Liyun Nian Research on the Framework of Internet of Things in Manufacturing for Aircraft Large Components Assembly Site 1192 Jihong Liu and Jie Yu Technical State Monitoring and Evaluation of Aerospace Product Manufacturing Workshop Based on Internet of Things 1197 Jihong Liu and Wenting Xu Temperature Map Recovery Based on Compressive Sensing for Large-Scale Wireless Sensor Networks 1202 Xuanxuan Wu, Cheng-Long Chuang, and Joe-Air Jiang Interoperability Repository System for the Internet-of-Things 1207 Pedro MalÛ, Tiago Teixeira, Bruno Almeida, and M·rcio Mateus Discussion on Key Technologies in Forestry Fundamental Scientific Information Cloud Service Platform 1216 Mubo Zhang, Zhongming Li, and Fan Li Symposium on Frontiers of Cyber-Physical-Social Computing SymCPS Leveraging Social Network APIs for Enhancing Smartphone Apps: An Example of VoIP App 1219 Shuchih Ernest Chang and Pin-Fan Lee Extending and Recompiling AADL for CPS Modeling 1225 Zhonghao Sun and Xingshe Zhou A Novel Frequency Hopping Scheme Based on Cognitive Radio for Aircraft 1231 Lei Zhidong and Zhang Xiaolin Modeling Effects of Physical Factors on Controller Area  Network in Cyber-physical Systems 1237 Bo Shen, Xingshe Zhou, and Ru Wang Detecting Flu Transmission by Social Sensor in China 1242 Jiangmiao Huang, Hui Zhao, and Jie Zhang A Smart Cyber-physical Systems-Based Solution for Pest Control \(Work in Progress 1248 Farhad Mehdipour, Krishna Chaitanya Nunna, and Kazuaki J. Murakami 
xix 


A Hybrid Content-Based Filtering Approach: Recommending Microbloggers for Web-Based Communities 1254 Kejun Dong and Yi Shen Just-in-Time Social Cloud: Computational Social Platform to Guide People's Just-in-Time Decisions 1259 Kwan Hong Lee, Andrew Lippman, Alex S. Pentland, and Pattie Maes Towards a Hybrid Approach of Primitive Cognitive Network Process and K-Means Clustering for Social Network Analysis 1267 Chun Guan and Kevin Kam Fung Yuen A Compressive Sensing Based Secure Data Transmission Scheme 1272 Guorui Li and Ying Wang An IO Optimized Data Access Method in Distributed Key-Value Storage System 1276 Li Chao, Wu Guangjun, Wang Shupeng, and Li Yixi W e  K n o w  W h a t  Y o u  A r e A  U s e r  C l a s s i f i c a t i o n  B a s e d  o n  M o b i l e  D a t a                                                             1 2 8 2 Duan Hu, Fei Sun, Lai Tu, and Benxiong Huang E f f i c i e n t  S e c u r i t y  S o l u t i o n  f o r  I n f o r m a t i o n c e n t r i c  N e t w o r k i n g                                                                          1 2 9 0 Hasen Nicanfar, Peyman TalebiFard, Chunsheng Zhu, and Victor C.M. Leung Towards Dynamic Resource Provisioning for Traffic Mining Service Cloud 1296 Jianjun Yu and Tongyu Zhu Leading Users Detecting Model in Professional Community Question Answering Services 1302 Siqi Song, Ye Tian, Wenwen Han, Xirong Que, and Wendong Wang A Moving Foreground Expansion Method Based on the Gaussian Distribution 1308 Yanhua Li, Wei Li, and Qi Xiang A Hybrid Emotion Recognition on Android Smart Phones 1313 Weishan Zhang, Xin Meng, Qinghua Lu, Yuan Rao, and Jiehan Zhou Multi-view Approach for Modeling Aerospace Cyber-physical Systems 1319 Lichen Zhang EigenCrime: An Algorithm for Criminal Network Mining Based on Trusted Computing 1325 Shujun Cai, Jiangnan Xia, Keyi Sun, and Zhen Wang A Task-Attribute-Based Workflow Access Control Model 1330 Yi Liu, Ke Xu, and Junde Song GreenBicycling: A Smartphone-Based Public Bicycle Sharing System for Healthy Life 1335 Yifan Zhao, Longbiao Chen, Chao Teng, Shijian Li, and Gang Pan Multi-step Sensor Scheduling for Energy-Efficient High-Accuracy Collaborative Target Tracking in Wireless Sensor Networks 1341 Biao Song, Wendong Xiao, and Zhaohui Zhang xx  


International Workshop on Vehicular Sensor and Ad-Hoc Networks \(VeSAN 2013 Toward Optimal Additive Noise Distribution for Privacy Protection in Mobile Statistics Aggregation 1346 Hao Zhang, Yonggang Wen, Honggang Hu, and Nenghai Yu Performance Analysis of a Hierarchical Structured VANET 1352 Wanting Zhu, Qing Zhang, and A.C.M. Fong Multilevel Cluster-Based Information Fusion in Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks 1357 Weicheng Zhao, Linjuan Zhang, Wanting Zhu, and Yanqi Zhao PSFCS: Robust Emergency Communications Supporting High-Mobility Based on WiMAX MMR Networks 1363 Wen-Kang Jia, Chia-Yao Chen, and Yaw-Chung Chen International Workshop on Next Topics for Green Communications and Computing \(GreenCom-Next 2013 On Energy Efficiency Data Access and Backup for Cloud Computing Networks 1369 Yeanf-Fu Wen A Model to Analyze the Energy Savings of Base Station Sleep Mode in LTE HetNets 1375 Paolo Dini, Marco Miozzo, Nicola Bui, and Nicola Baldo Soft Timing Synchronization Algorithm for CPM Signals 1381 Xiangchao Zhou, Rui Xue, Danfeng Zhao, and Fu Fang Secure Framework for the Return Routability Procedure in MIPv6 1386 Faisal Al Hawi, Chan Yeob Yeun, and Khaled Salah An Energy Efficient Cache Design for Multi-core Processors 1392 Cao Xiangrong and Zhang Xiaolin Analysis Method of Energy for C Source Program and Its Application 1397 Yang Yuechuan, Zeng Guosun, Ding Chunling, and Wang Wei Simulating Stochastic Activation Functions 1403 Hanno Hildmann, Sebastien Nicolas, and Fabrice Saffre Power-Efficient Virtual Machine Placement and Migration in Data Centers 1408 Shuo Fang, Renuga Kanagavelu, Bu-Sung Lee, Chuan Heng Foh, and Khin Mi Mi Aung Probabilistic Modeling during Power Estimation for Mixed Polarity Reed-Muller Logic Circuits 1414 Xiang Wang, Ying Lu, Yi Zhang, Zexi Zhao, Tongsheng Xia, Jishun Cui, and Limin Xiao Ant-Colony Based Heuristics to Minimize Power and Delay in the Internet 1419 Shankar Raman, Gaurav Raina, Hanno Hildmann, and Fabrice Saffre Materialization of a Comprehensive Digital City with CityMaker and ArcGIS 1424 Mingzhu Deng, Guangming Liu, and Yuran Hu 
xxi 


iThings/CPSCom 2013 Workshops International Workshop on Biometric Recognition and Its Applications \(BR&A 2013 A New Method of Designing High-Power Electroplating Power Supply 1429 Yihong He and Shuiyong Yu The Study of Fusion Image Block and Sparse Representation Classification in Disguised Face Recognition 1434 Gan Junying, Liu Dan, Zeng Junying, and Tian fengxia SMT Components Model Inspection Based on Characters Image Matching and Verification 1438 Bing Luo, Yuehua Gao, Zhongyu Sun, and Sufang Zhao The Manipulation of Chaotic Synchronization Quality Based on VCSEL with Optical Feedback 1442 Dongzhou Zhong Fast Wavelet Thresholding Algorithms for Face Image Inpainting 1445 Yibin Yu, Jinguo Cao, Yaofang Tang, and JunYing Gan Multispectral Palmprint Recognition Using Score-Level Fusion 1450 Yibin Yu, Yaofang Tang, Jinguo Cao, and JunYing Gan Encryption Node Design in Internet of Things Based on Fingerprint Features and CC2530 1454 Zeng Bohan, Wang Xu, Zhou Kaili, and Zhao Xueyuan Facial Expression Recognition Based on Local Binary Pattern and Gradient Directional Pattern 1458 Wenjin Chu Design of Intelligent Inducing Switch 1463 Yang Zhao and Fengxia Tian International Workshop on Cyber Physical Society Information Processing \(CPSIP 2013 Identify Online Fraudster with Extended Cellular Automata 1467 Ji Li and Yueliang Xiao Harmonization of Cyber-physical Society 1473 Alexander Abramovich and Rashid Khunagov Influence Analyzing and Modeling of High Frequency Forwarding Microblogs 1479 Shangbo Zhou, Wei Wang, Jie Luo, Li Wan, and Yao Zhang Requirement Specification for Transportation Cyber Physical Systems 1486 Lichen Zhang Integration-Oriented Modeling of Cyber-physical Interactive Process 1492 Tao Guan and Gang Yang 
xxii 


Web-of-Things Framework for WeChat 1496 Huang Yitong, Lai Xiaozheng, Dai Bingpei, and Chen Qinyi International Workshop on Cyberspace Security and Information Countermeasures \(CS&IC 2013 Simulation Experiment Research of Cyberspace Confront Effectiveness Evaluation 1501 Yu Zhang, Chen Shansong, and Xie Deping Technology of Situation Awareness Based on Radar Network in Cyberspace 1505 Xun Yang, Wei Shan, and Liu Jia Space Information Security and Cyberspace Defense Technology 1509 Su Kang, Dong Qiaozhong, and Zhu WeiQiang International Workshop on Connected Vehicles and Vehicular Networks \(CV2N 2013 Real-Time Vehicle Route Guidance Based on Connected Vehicles 1512 Daxin Tian, Yong Yuan, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guangquan Lu, and Haiying Xia A Novel Two-Timer-Based Broadcast Routing Algorithm for Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 1518 Song Fang and Tao Luo Research of Vehicle Counting Based on DBSCAN in Video Analysis 1523 Dayang Sun, Binbin Li, and Zhihong Qian A Self-Adaptive V2V Communication System with DSRC 1528 Daxin Tian, Hao Luo, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guizhen Yu, and HaiyingXia International Workshop on Electromagnetic Characteristics of Target and Environment \(ECTE 2013 SAR Segmentation and Recognition Based SCM 1533 Liping Hu and Xiaoyu Xing EM Scattering Analysis of Complex Target Coated with Plasma by Conformal SO-FDTD Method 1538 Hao-Chuan Deng, Xiao Wei, and Hong-Cheng Yin SAR RAW Data Simulation by Electromagnetic Computation in Frequency Domain 1542 Xupu Geng, Chunzhu Dong, Hongcheng Yin, and Guoqing Zhu Precession and Structural Parameters Estimation of the Cone-Shaped Target Based on the Profile Length 1545 Jing Huang, Chao Ning, and Zhihe Xiao Terahertz Gaussian Beam Scattering by a Conducting Sphere 1550 Liangsheng Li and Hongcheng Yin Reshaped Window Iterative Super-Resolution Imaging Algorithm 1554 Sheng Li, Liangsheng Li, and Hongcheng Yin Study on the influential factors of radar target RCS in resonance region 1557 Liang Man, Xiao Wei, and Zhihe Xiao 
xxiii 


A New Method for Estimating Radar Profile Length of a Cone Target 1561 Chao Ning, Jing Huang, Chao Gao, and Yong Zhu The Feature Extraction of Time-Frequency Image Based on Frequency Diversity 1566 Jing Sheng, Zhihe Xiao, and Jing Huang Characteristic Study of Target Micro-motion Based on the Wavelet Analysis 1571 Yuguang Tian, Chao Ning, and Xiangyang Zhang The Decorrelation Time Accumulation Restrain Method for Sea Clutter Spike 1576 Xujin Yuan, Yong Chen, Chao Wang, and Hongcheng Yin The Radar Echo Simulation of Moving Targets Based on HRRP 1580 Tao Zhao, Chun-Zhu Dong, Hong-Mei Ren, and Hong-Cheng Yin A Novel Method for Generating Planar Wave Based on Dielectric Gratings 1584 Dai Fei, Cheng Qiping, and Yue Hui Application of Terahertz Technology on RCS Measurement 1587 Wang Xiaobing, Huang Xin, Wu Yajun, Dai Fei, and Li Li Typical Target RCS Reduction Using Structural Radar Absorbing Material 1591 Yongfeng Wang and Kainan Qi International Workshop on Electromagnetic Detection and Identification \(EDI 2013 Error Analysis in Calculating RCS Using GRECO Method 1594 Zhi Hua Cheng, Yong Jun Xie, Xue Mei Wang, Yu Ru Mao, and Xiao Dong Ma Placement Optimization of Vehicular Antenna Using Particle Swarm Optimization 1597 Yu-Ru Mao, Yong-Jun Xie, Zhi-Hua Cheng, Xue-Mei Wang, and Xiao-Dong Ma A Novel Loss Compensated Multipath Power Divider for Frequency Synthesizer 1600 Tongfei Yu, Jungang Miao, Yan Xie, Baohua Yang, and Xianxun Yao An Approach for Extrapolating Far Field Radar Cross-Section from Near Field Measurement 1604 Gao Chao, Yuan Xiaofeng, and Bai Yang Implementation of the Digital Correlation Unit for Synthetic Aperture Interferometric Radiometer 1608 Xianxun Yao, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Jin Zhang, and Jungang Miao Design Procedures and Considerations of FOD Detection Millimeter-Wave FMCW Radar 1612 Jin Zhang, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Xianxun Yao, and Jungang Miao Exact Design of a Ka Band H-Plane Inductance Diaphragm Waveguide Band-Pass Filter 1618 Yong Fu, Baohua Yang, and Jungang Miao The Compact Microstrip Bandstop Filter Using Equal Width Open Stub 1622 Bao-Hua Yang, Ghulam Mehdi, Jin Zhang, Tong-fei Yu, Xian-xun Yao, and Jungang Miao 
xxiv 


The Design and Simulation of Hardware Architecture of the Fast and On-Site Assessing System of Scattering Characteristics of Stealth Aircraft Based on Simulink 1626 Hong Tao and Song Dan Second International Workshop on Engineering Pervasive Service Systems \(EPS 2013 Food Image Recognition Using Pervasive Cloud Computing 1631 Pengcheng Duan, Wenshan Wang, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao An Approach of Semantic Similarity by Combining HowNet and Cilin 1638 Peiying Zhang, Zhanshan Zhang, and Weishan Zhang Reconstruction of 3D Maps for 2D Satellite Images 1644 Lianzhang Zhu, Xuexing Zheng, and Pengfei Li Component-Based Cloud Computing Service Architecture for Measurement System 1650 Chao Liu, Qingsong Yu, Tianao Zhang, and Zhongwen Guo Second International Workshop on Energy and Wireless Sensors  \(e-WiSe 2013 Design Optimization of Electromagnetic MEMS Energy Harvester with Serpentine Coil 1656 Yuji Tanaka, Takayuki Fujita, Tatsuya Kotoge, Kohei Yamaguchi, Koji Sonoda Kensuke Kanda, and Kazusuke Maenaka Experimental Study of a Passive Impedance Matching Interface Based on a Centimeter-Size High Inductance Coil for Practically Enhanced Piezoelectric Energy Harvester Performance at Low Frequency 1659 Alessandro Giuliano and Meiling Zhu SPICE Modeling of Piezoelectric Energy Harvesting Device Utilizing Stress Influence 1662 Koji Sonoda, Takayuki Fujita, Kensuke Kanda, Kazusuke Maenaka, Hidenori Katsumura Masaya Tamura, and Hiroshi Kagata Modeling, Validation and Design Analyses of a Piezoelectric Cymbal Transducer for Non-resonant Energy Harvesting 1665 Alice Daniels, Alessandro Giuliano, Meiling Zhu, and Ashutosh Tiwari Towards Energy Autonomy of Wireless Sensors in Aeronautics Applications SMARTER Collaborative Project 1668 Marise Bafleur and Jean-Marie Dilhac 
xxv 


International Workshop on Gas Sensors and Gas-Sensing Platforms \(GS&GSP 2013 A Novel Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Optical Lens Surface Dirt Detection 1673 Jiuling Liu, Minghua Liu, Wen Wang, and Shitang He Electrical Sensoring Characteristics of Pseudo-LFE Sensors with Different Single Crystals 1676 Zhitian Zhang, Chao Zhang, Wenyan Wang, Yan Liu, and Tingfeng Ma Investigation of Polymer-Coated Film Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonator for Acetone Vapor Detection 1680 Jingjing Wang and Da Chen Polyaniline-Coated Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Humidity Detection 1685 Xiao Xie, Wen Wang, Shitang He, Ning Mu, and Yong Pan Effect of Facets of  Fe2O3 Nanostructures on Gas-Sensing Performance 1688 Jing Wang, Xiaoman Zhang, Weihong Xu, Liang Chen, Xingjiu Huang, and Jinhuai Liu Application and Development Trend of Gas Sensing Technology Based on Absorption Spectroscopy 1692 Zhenzhen Zhao, Fengchun Tian, and Shouqiong Liu Identification of Toxic VOC Pollutants Using FAIMS 1698 Youjiang Liu, Lehua Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaotian Zhang, Chilai Chen Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong, Mario A. Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Detection of benzene series by two-dimensional  FAIMS technique 1702 Lehua Zhang, Youjiang Liu, Hongwei Wang, Chilai Chen, Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong Xiaotian Zhang, Mario Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Fabrication of Prototypal Nanomechanical Resonator Based on a Single Copper Nanowire 1706 Weihong Xu and Li-Feng Ge The SAW Gas Chromatograph and Its Applications in the Public Security 1710 Shitang He, Jiuling Liu, and Minghua Liu Theory of Lamb Wave Transducers and Their Applications for Gas and Liquid Sensing 1714 Li-Feng Ge Study of the Space Station On-Orbit Leak Detection Based on the Differential Pressure Gas Sensor 1718 Wei Sun, Rongxin Yan, Lichen Sun, Donghui Meng, Zheng Li, Haitao Guo, and Wenbin Li 
xxvi 


International Workshop on Human Body Communications and Biomedical Signal Processing \(HBC&BSP 2013 Pulse-Output Monitor Genetic Circuit of Breast Cancer Testing 1722 Xiang Wang, Guangqian Yuan, Xun Wang, and Zexi Zhao Elderly Gait Analysis and Assessment Based on Body Area Network 1729 Y.D.Xuan, Z. Zhao, Z. Fang, Z.H.Xu, F.M.Sun, D.L.Chen, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hu and L.L.Tian Combined Motion and Region-Based 3D Tracking in Active Depth Image Sequence 1734 Xingyu Wu, Xia Mao, Lijiang Chen, and Angelo Compare Characteristic Optimization of Multilayer Dielectric for the Bloch-Surface-Wave Based Sensor 1740 Shuna Li, Jiansheng Liu, Zheng Zheng, Yuhang Wan, Weijing Kong, Sun Yu, and Shuna Li Facial Expression Recognition Based on t-SNE and AdaboostM2 1744 Jizheng Yi, Xia Mao, Yuli Xue, and Angelo Compare A Design of Security Module to Protect Program Execution in Embedded System 1750 Wang Xiang, Zhao Zexi, Lu Ying, and Zhang Yi Improved P-T Algorithm Applied to a Wearable Integrated Physiological Parameters System 1756 Z.H.Xu, Z. Fang, Z. Zhao, X.X.Chen, D.L.Chen, F.M.Sun, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hui and L.L.Tian Iterative Threshold Selection for TOA Estimation of IR-UWB System 1763 Xiang Wang, Bo Yin, Ying Lu, Bin Xu, Pei Du, and Limin Xiao A Novel Alternative Exponent-Weighted Fuzzy C-Means Algorithm 1767 Renhao Fan, Xiang Wang, and Jordi Madrenas A Wireless ZigBee Router with P-H-T Sensing for Health Monitoring 1773 Z. Fang, F. M. Sun, J. Tan, and Z. Zhao A Whole Integrated System for Detection of Neural Signal and Wireless Transmission 1779 Dang Hua, Qu Ruoyuan, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua Research on the Monitoring and Controlling Model of SIP Network 1784 Liang Zhang, Zhaoxin Zhang, Xu Cui, and Dan Liu Saliency-Based Feature Learning for No-Reference Image Quality Assessment 1790 Zhang Hong, Feng Ren, and Yuan Ding A Compensated Technique for 2.5-GHz Ring-Oscillator-Based PLL used in Wireless Transmission 1795 Dang Hua, Liu Zicheng, Gui Xiaoyan, and Zhong Shunan Speech Synthesis Research Based on EGG 1799 Lijiang Chen, Xia Mao, Pengfei Wei, and Angelo Compare A Temperature Insensitive Ring Oscillator for Low Power RF Communications 1804 Pilong Yang, Tongsheng Xia, Hongge Li, and Xiang Wang 
xxvii 


Low-Noise Biopotential Recording Circuit with Correlated Timeshare Sampling 1810 Hongge Li and Weidong Cao A No-Reference Quality Metric for Blur Image 1813 Zhang Taojia, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Circuit Design of Analog Front-End for Neural Signal Detection 1817 Dang Hua, Zhang Lei, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua A New Pedestrian Detect Method in Crowded Scenes 1820 Hou Xin, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Design and Implementation of a Circuit System for Neural Signal Detection 1825 Dang Hua, Li Xiao, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, Wang Xinghua, and Zhong Shunan Design and Implementation of a CMOS 1Gsps 5bit Flash ADC with Offset Calibration 1829 Li Shiwen, Dang Hua, Gao Peng, Gui Xiaoyan, Chen Zhiming, Wang Xinghua and Zhong Shunan Spike Detection Based on Fractal Dimension 1834 Zhou Jiyang, Xu Shengwei, Lin Nansen, Wang Mixia, and Cai Xinxia A GPU-Accelerated Large-Scale Music Similarity Retrieval Method 1839 Limin Xiao, Yao Zheng, Wenqi Tang, Guangchao Yao, Li Ruan, and Xiang Wang Power Spectral Analysis of Acupoint Bioelectricity 1844 Quan Zhou, Nansen Lin, Shuping Gai, Jingjing Zhang, Lu Zhang, Wentao Shi Renhuan Yu, and Xinxia Caii Compressive Sensing of Neural Action Potentials by Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries 1848 Shuai Zhou, Bowei Dai, Yin Xiang, Shengwei Xu, Bingchen Zhang, Yilin Song Mixia Wang, and Xinxia Cai CloudDVMM: Distributed Virtual Machine Monitor for Cloud Computing 1853 Li Ruan, Jinbin Peng, Limin Xiao, and Xiang Wang Metadata-Intensive I/O Performance Optimization by Merging Read/Write Requests 1859 Li Ruan, Qimeng Wu, Limin Xiao, Ke Xie, and Xiang Wang International Workshop on Machine-to-Machine Communication \(IWMMC 2013 Angle of Arrival Estimation for Passive UHF RFID Tag Backscatter Signal 1865 Meng-Chang Hua, Guo-Chen Peng, Yan-Jun Lai, and Hsin-Chin Liu Mobile IMS Integration of the Internet of Things in Ecosystem 1870 Han-Chuan Hsieh, Jiann-Liang Chen, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo Design of Gateway for Monitoring System in IoT Networks 1876 Ji-De Huang and Han-Chuan Hsieh Dependable Architecture of RFID Middleware on Networked RFID Systems 1881 Yung-Li Hu, Wei-Bing Su, Yennun Huang, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo 
xxviii 


The Design and Implementation of the Front-End Software for the Telemetry and Telecontrol System of Satellite 1885 Zhao Qi and Ma Li Internet of Things for Special Materials Transportation Vehicles 1891 Li Shengguang, Tan Lin, Zhu Yuanshuo, and Zhang Rucai Performance Analysis of COMPASS for the Asia-Pacific Region 1895 Hangyu Huo, Xiaolin Zhang, and Canhui Chen International Workshop on Localization Technology and Location-Based Services \(LTLS 2013 A KNN Indoor Positioning Algorithm That Is Weighted by the Membership of Fuzzy Set 1899 Jiankun Yu and Jianye Liu Building Location-Based Service Based on Social Network API: An Example of Check-In App 1904 Pin-Fan Lee and Shuchih Ernest Chang Prioritizing the Data in the Target-Tracking Wireless Sensor Networks 1910 Dan Xu, Xiaojiang Chen, Xiaoyan Yin, Lvju Wang, Hao Chen, Yuan Zhang, and Dingyi Fang DLF: Target Detection and Localization in Wireless Network 1916 Tianzhang Xing, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Liqiong Chang, and Yuhui Ren Bandwidth Reservation for Target Tracking in Region-Base Wireless Sensor Networks 1922 Xiaoyan Yin, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Hao Chen, and Wei Wei Fusion Estimation Based on UKF for Indoor RFID Tracking 1928 Xue-bo Jin International Workshop on New Media and Computer Vision for Smart City \(NMCV4SC 2013 Facile Analysis of Smartphone Comics 1932 Beili Qiu Research on Production of Regional Animation Style Based on Computer Graphic Rendering 1935 Jingjing Chen, Yi Lin, Kexuan Ma, and Yue Liu A Blind Demodulation Algorithm for MFSK Signals Using STFT-Radon-Wavelet Transform 1940 Zhang Guoyi, Qi Xinglong, Zhang Xuzhou, and Lin Caiyong A Novel Method to Remove Eye-Blink Artifacts Based on Correlation Using ICA 1946 Hengsong Sheng and Hongjun Tian Virtual Assembly, Maintenance and Training System Based on the Virtual - Real Fusion Technology 1949 Ning Wang and Yue Qi 
xxix 


International Workshop on Optical Characteristics and Applications \(OC&A 2013 A New Infrared Sensor Model Based on Imaging System Test Parameter 1953 Zheng Liu, Hong-xia Mao, Ying-hong Dai, and Jing-li Wu Mixed Norm-Based Image Restoration Using Neural Network 1957 Yuan-nan Xu, Jing Wang, and Yan-bing Dong Simulation and Analysis of Turbulent Optical Wavefront Based on Zernike Polynomials 1962 Yan Chen, Shu-hua Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Study on the Interaction of Optical Field and Transverse Acoustic Mode in Silicon Optical Fibers 1967 Jing Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Testing Technology of Infrared Point Source Target Optical Axis 1972 Yue Peng and Hao Lu Human Segmentation in Infrared Videos Using Markov Random Field 1976 Wenjia Yang, Xiaodan Xie, Zhi Chai, and Yapeng Li Third IEEE International Workshop on Sensing, Networking and Computing with Smartphones \(PhoneCom 2013 SmartProbe: A Bottleneck Capacity Estimation Tool for Smartphones 1980 Francesco Disperati, Dario Grassini, Enrico Gregori, Alessandro Improta Luciano Lenzini, Davide Pellegrino, and Nilo Redini CANDIS: Heterogenous Mobile Cloud Framework and Energy Cost-Aware Scheduling 1986 Sebastian Schildt, Felix B¸sching, Enrico Jˆrns, and Lars Wolf An Experimental Study on Wireless Magnetic Communication with Smart Phone Using a MEMS Magnetometer 1992 Jiabo Wang and Xi Chen PhoneJoule: An Energy Management System for Android-Based Smartphones 1996 Xiaojing Liu, Fangwei Ding, Jie Li, Haifeng Liu, Zhuo Yang, Juan Chen, and Feng Xia KeyGraph-Based Social Network Generation for Mobile Context Sharing 2002 Myeong-Chun Lee, Young-Seol Lee, and Sung-Bae Cho Cyber-physical Directory: A Dynamic Visualization of Social Media Data 2007 Jean-Loup Lamothe, James She, and Ming Cheung 
xxx 


International Workshop on Sensor Data Processing and Integration \(SDPI 2013 Capturing, Calculating, and Disseminating Real-Time CO2 Emissions and CO2 Flux Measurements via Twitter in a Smart City 2013 Laurie Butgereit and Alecia Nickless Freshness-Aware Sensor Mashups Based on Data Services 2018 Guiling Wang and Feng Zhang A Method of Sensor Data Services Query in Emergency Management 2024 Xin Chen, Yanbo Han, Yongshan Wei, Feng Zhang, and Yan Wen A Sensory-Data-Hosting Oriented Scheduling Strategy on Virtual Machine 2029 Xiang Li and Yong Jiang International Workshop on Software Engineering for Internet of Things-Based Applications \(SeIoTA 2013 From the Internet of Things to Trusted Apps for Things 2037 Christian Prehofer A Profile for Step Data Transmission Based on Bluetooth Low Energy 2043 Youcong Ni, Sun Cong, Zhao Ting, Peng Ye, Chunyan Wang, and Luo Zeng Exception Handling in Service-Oriented Software: A Survey 2048 Xue Tong, Ying Shi, and Wu Qing On the Application of the Internet of Things in the Field of Medical and Health Care 2053 Fang Hu, Dan Xie, and Shaowu Shen Hierarchical RBAC Model with Alpha Factor in the Water Supply Pipeline Network Information System 2059 Wu Ting, Yuan Tianliang, and Yu Long Modeling Concern of Online Auction System with SA-CDL 2063 Linlin Zhang, Kai Zhao, Zhenhong Jia, and Youcong Ni The Research on Interactive Exhibition Technology of Digital Museum Resources 2067 Ning Wang and Xukun Shen International Workshop on Sensor Networks and Data Communications Security \(SNDCS 2013 Integrity Protection and Attestation of Security Critical Executions on Virtualized Platform in Cloud Computing Environment 2071 Bingyu Zou and Huanguo Zhang A Fuzzing Framework Based on Symbolic Execution and Combinatorial Testing 2076 Jian Yang, Huanguo Zhang, and Jianming Fu Dynamic Knowledge Repository-Based Security Auxiliary System of User Behavior 2081 Fan Yang, Jinxia Wu, Shanyu Tang, and Huanguo Zhang 
xxxi 


Research on a New Mathematic Description for Fingerprint Identification 2085 Zhao Ma, Shanyu Tang, Liping Zhang, Linchen Yu, and Sifa Zhang Robust and Efficient Authentication Protocol Based on Elliptic Curve Cryptography for Smart Grids 2089 Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, Yijing Jiang, and Zhao Ma De Bruijn Graph-Based Whole-Genomic Sequence Assembly Algorithms and Applications 2094 Xiaojun Kang, Shanyu Tang, Yongge Ma, Ruixiang Liu, and Yaping Wang Review of Digital Watermarking for 2D-Vector Map 2098 Jinxia Wu, Fan Yang, and Chonglong Wu Real-Time Covert VoIP Communications over Smart Grids by Using AES-Based Audio Steganography 2102 Yijing Jiang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and Zhangbing Zhou Improving Performance of E-Government System from the User Perspective 2108 Hang Zhang, Sifa Zhang, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang ECC-Based Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol with Privacy Protection for VoIP Communications 2114 Shaohui Zhu, Fan Yang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and J. Li Establishment of Security Levels in Trusted Cloud Computing Platforms 2119 Fan Yang, Li Pan, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang Efficient Divisible E-Cash in the Standard Model 2123 Jiangxiao Zhang, Zhoujun Li, Hua Guo, and Chang Xu International Workshop on Secure Smart Objects \(SSO 2013 Towards a Modular and Lightweight Model for Android Development Platforms 2129 Mussab Zneika, Hasan Loulou, Fatiha Houacine, and Samia Bouzefrane Towards a Secure Identity Management in Smartphone Environments 2133 Maryline Laurent, Samia Bouzefrane, and Christophe Kiennert Third International Workshop on Trends and Future of Web Science \(TFWS 2013 Extracting Protein Terminologies in Literatures 2136 Jangwon Gim, Donald J. Kim, Myunggwon Hwang, Sa-kwang Song, Do-Heon Jeong and Hanmin Jung Author Name Disambiguation in Technology Trend Analysis Using SVM and Random Forests and Novel Topic Based Features 2141 Sebastian Kastner, Sung-Pil Choi, and Hanmin Jung Research on Quantum-Bit Error Correction Coding for Smart Grid Substation 2145 Xin Miao and Xi Chen 
xxxii 


Fourth International Workshop on Universal User Modeling and Applications \(UUMA 2013 The Research of MEICSP Model through a REST Web Service 2148 Zhilei Huang, Lingyu Xu, and Yang Liu A Text Association Rules Mining Method Based on Concept Algebra 2153 Feiyue Ye, Jiannan Xiong, and Lingyu Xu Research and Application of the Intelligent Flow 2159 Yang Liu, Lingyu Xu, Liang Chen, and Fei Zhong Application of Hybrid MPI+TBB Parallel Programming Model for Traveling Salesman Problem 2164 Jinke Zhu and Qing Li Data Deduplication Cluster Based on Similarity-Locality Approach 2168 Xingyu Zhang and Jian Zhang The Application of the Knowledge Representation Based on Concept Algebra in the Knowledge Management System of Petroleum Enterprise 2173 Hongjie Duan, Shanpeng Wu, and Feiyue Ye A New Reliable Hybrid Algorithm for Shortening the Expanding Range of Interval 2178 Cheng Chen and Yongmei Lei A Novel Data Encryption in HDFS 2183 Thanh Cuong Nguyen, Wenfeng Shen, Jiwei Jiang, and Weimin Xu The Dynamically Efficient Mechanism of HDFS Data Prefetching 2188 Shaochun Wu, Guobing Zou, Honghao Zhu, Xiang Shuai, Liang Chen, and Bofeng Zhang Multi-granularity Recommendation Based on Ontology User Model 2194 Jianxing Zheng, Bofeng Zhang, and Guobing Zou Friend Recommendation Based on the Similarity of Micro-blog User Model 2200 Fan Tang, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Yajun Gu The Research of Image Detail Enhancement Algorithm with Laplacian Pyramid 2205 Yanwen Teng, Fuyan Liu, and Ruoyu Wu Information Gain with Weight Based Decision Tree for the Employment Forecasting of Undergraduates 2210 Yue Liu, Lingjie Hu, Fei Yan, and Bofeng Zhang A User Model-Based Resource Scheduling Framework 2214 Guannan Hu, Wenhao Zhu, Kangkang Niu, and Wu Zhang A Novel Method of Adopting Graph Reduction for Resource Management in Parallel Computing Model 2218 Shen Chao and Tong Weiqin Sentiment Classification for Topical Chinese Microblog Based on Sentences' Relations 2221 Kang Wu, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Haidong Yao An Anomaly Intrusion Detection Method Based on PageRank Algorithm 2226 Quan Qian, Jianyu Li, Jing Cai, Rui Zhang, and Mingjun Xin 
xxxiii 


Distributed File System and Classification for Small Images 2231 Shaojian Zhuo, Xing Wu, Wu Zhang, Xing Wu, and Wanchun Dou The Possibility of Normal Gait Analysis Based on a Smart Phone for Healthcare 2235 Susu Jiang, Bofeng Zhang, Guobing Zou, and Daming Wei IoT/CPS Demo and Exhibition Mo-Fi: Discovering Human Presence Activity with Smartphones using Non-intrusive Wi-Fi Monitors 2241 Weijun Qin, Hongsong Zhu, Jiadi Zhang, and Bo Li Towards a Pervasive Cloud Computing Based Food Image Recognition 2243 Wenshan Wang, Pengcheng Duan, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao Wireless IoT Platform Based on SDR Technology 2245 Yong Hua Lin, Qing Wang, Jun Song Wang, Ling Shao, and Jianbin Tang Join the Workshop Better with Telepresence Capturer 2247 Pin Tao, Lixin Feng, and Minxi Yu InSciTe Adaptive: R&D Decision Support System for Strategic Foresight 2249 Jangwon Gim, Do-Heon Jeong, Myunggwon Hwang, Sung-Pil Choi, Donald J. Kim Seungwoo Lee, Sa-kwang Song, and Hanmin Jung Author Index 2251 
xxxiv 


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


