Big Data Approach in an ICT Agriculture Project  Dennis A. Ludena R Department of Computer and Information Sciences Sojo University Kumamoto, JAPAN e-mail: dennis@cis.sojo-u.ac.jp Alireza Ahrary Faculty of Computer and Information Sciences Sojo University Kumamoto, JAPAN e-mail: ahrary@cis.sojo-u.ac.jp   Abstract The advent of Big Data analytics is changing some of the current knowledge paradigms in Science as well in Industry. Although, the term and some of the core methodologies have been around for many years, the continuous price reduction of hardware and some services \(e.g. cloud computing\ are making more affordable the application of these methodologies to almost any Research Area being developed in Academic Institutions or Company Research Centers. This growing popularity is also raising some concerns regarding some of its core concepts and the way Data is treated through the analysis process. It is the aim of this paper to address these concerns because big Data Methodologies will be extensively use in the new ICT Agriculture project granted by NEDO, in order to improve the efficiency and accuracy of the proposed system, therefore it is necessary to establish a common background for all the project members in which Sojo University plays a fundamental role in the improvement of the general performance of the proposed system KeywordsóBig Data; Computer Science; Data Systems; Data Analysis I  I NTRODUCTION  Big Data is currently an emerging topic among different researchers like: computer scientists, economists mathematicians, political scientists, bio-informaticists sociologists and many others who are claiming that the results of Big Data analysis are richer results than standard analysis so far done in their areas. [1  The concept behind Big Data can be simplified as the analysis of a wide variety of data volume towards the intention to find a regular pattern or data behavior that will allow making decisions in a faster and more accurate way    Although, some authors consider the term Big Data poor the term is used in science to refer to data sets large enough to require supercomputers for their analysis, even though currently, vast sets of data can be analyzed on powerful but affordable, desktop computers with standard open software tools [6   We bel i ev e an d ag re e th at da ta  in t e n s iv e  a p pli c a t i o n s  represent a challenge for Big Data, like the LCH \(Large Hadron Collider\but for most organizations processing large volumes or wide varieties of data remains merely a technological solution unless it is tied to business/research goals and objectives [2   Furthermore, Big Data is important because it refers to the analytical phenomenon that is a current trend in academia and industry. It is the phenomenon around Big Data what we want to address [5 T h ere ar e s e ve ra l i ssue s  a r o und B i g Da ta b u t i n  this paper we will focus on: Data availability, Security, Ethics Big Data Resultsí Interpretation, Data set equivalence, and Big Data main applications scenarios In particular for the objective of the application of Big Data in our research, it is necessary to define our research spectrum towards Big Data since the data set in which we will apply its concepts and analysis methodologies will be taken from a new project that is being implemented by NEDO in Japan in which Sojo University is an active research member in the group The main target of this paper is to discuss the biggest Big Data issues not only from the technological point of view, but how the decisions made using this complex group of methodologies could affect our concept of knowledge. We will apply in the best possible manner the concepts shown in this paper to our project in order to accomplish the best results but at the same time ensuring the user confidence in our system through a strong ethical behavior II  M AIN B I G D ATA C ONCERNS  A  Data Availanilty Today we use social networking for almost all of our daily activities i.e. Google, Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, etc. These sites generate large amount of Data everyday in which it could be included our personal information \(depending on the Security privacy measures we have taken on our own accounts\ which generates  a problem we address later; among other information related to our activities, opinions, posts activities, etc. This information could be retrieved using different APIs \(Application Program Interface\ provided by these sites in order to allow any researcher or any person to retrieve specific data from the large data set this companies have. But, the amount and the quality of the retrieved information is not the expected since these APIs are under control of the previous mentioned companies. In avergae ony 1% of the public twitts are available through these APIs [7   Above of all, these sample data is only available to some companies and startups, but only few researchers have access to this information. The same behavior is observed in the rest of the so called ìbigî companies in the Internet, making the data not representative of the Universe which it belongs 26 1 


B  Security Security is a general underestimated area in almost all Information Technology areas, reactive could be the closest word to describe the kind of behavior companies have towards security threats all around the world. In the particular case of Big Data, Security is strongly related to the protection of userís privacy. Private user information in the Universe of the Social Media and its relation with other accounts the users have in other sites could generate a ìpatternî or ìbehaviorî [6 In the recent decade the number of attacks related to steal userís information increased dramatically and it will continue growing since the social engineering methodologies are becoming more aggressive and companies do not change their behavior towards information security C  Ethics While Big Data is an emerging trend, there is a little understanding about the ethical implications on the research being done. A very good example is the case of a research done in Harvard in 2006, in which a collection of colleagues Facebook profiles were used to make a study of how was their friendships and interests over time [9 Th e co lle ct ed d a ta w a s publicly released to other researches to conduct experiments on that, but they realized it was possible to de-anonymize part of the data set It is important that scholars reflect on the importance of accountability in order to act in ethical manner. Regarding Big Data, accountability is strongly related to their research field as well as to their research subjects Being accountable for a specific action will entitle to specific set of rules that must be kept in mind in any step done towards the realization of the research specific goals and objectives [2  T h os e ch ar act eris tics  m a k e ac cou n t ab ilit y  a  broader concept than privacy [6 D  Big Data Resultsí Interpretation As a large mass of information, Big Data is not self explanatory. And yet the specific methodologies for interpreting the data are open to sort of technological and philosophical debate. Can the data represent an ìobjective truthî or is any interpretation necessarily biased by some subjective filter or the way the data is ìcleanedî [11   All researchers are interpreters of data [12, 13 e  co uld observe every organization has its own non-standardize way to figure data and they way this must be represented. From the technological point of view, Big Data performs its analysis using tools that are freely available in the internet such us: R Hadoop, Pig, etc, together with some statistical analysis that could shape the date the ways the researcher want it. Big Dataís result interpretation must be done with the less possible bias in order to keep an ethical behavior towards them E  Data Set Equivalence Some researchers have the assumption that analytical methodologies done in small data sets can be applied in the same manner to Big Data, which in some specific scenarios can be done, but following the general knowledge of Big Data those analysis can not be applied. We could describe this issue in two parts Cleaningî Process of collected Data Once Data is collected there are plenty of  ìno interesting data that must be ìcleanedî, but preserving the integrity of the useful Data. [8 Metadata Generation Assuming that the former point was successfully accomplished, the next step is the generation of the best descriptive metadata possible. The most important points that metadata must describe are how it is recorded and measured Since every single research topic have its own particularities regarding to data collection, an agreement regarding which data format will be used \(or if this must be created\ must be decided prior to the metadata generation or, if possible, to the data collection Having different research scientific topics and its relation with industry, makes even more difficult the decision of the format to be used for the metadata generation. An important issue here is data provenance. It is necessary to know where the data was generated in order to trace forward and backwards its accountability [6 H a v i n g  d i f f e r e n t m e tad a ta f r o m d i f f e r e n t  sources and trying to find its correspondence with another data set represent a big challenge due to the lack of standardization showed before, and trying to find a correlation between two different data set formats could affect the granularity needed to get the best results of the applied analysis III  B IG D ATA A PPLICATIONS  At present, Big Data methodologies are being applied in very different science and industry applications, from computer science to Marketing and Industrial Management. Elsevierís Research Trendsî 2012 publication shows the different publications statistics found under the ìBig Dataî keyword see Figure 1. We could observe that regarding scientific papers the biggest number of publications correspond to Computer Science and the least Art and Humanities [1   Regarding industry, the most common applications of Big Data are: Supply Chain Management, Security and Access Control, Work in Process Tracking, Consumer Applications Asset Management, Environmental Applications, Finance Smart Grid, etc. Due to the wide range that is possible to be applied, Big Data is becoming a recurrent name in the biggest business areas in the world. A consequence of that recent popularity is the new born term ìData Scientistî [14   IV  C URRENT S COPE OF ICT  A GRICULTURE IN J APAN  ICT Agriculture was born in the ìTunis Agenda for the Information Society", and since, Japan has been playing an active role towards the design and implementation of the required technologies to be applied in ICT Agriculture [15 Academia, as well as Company Research Centers, has been actively working on this topic due to its importance in Japan Researchers in Academia focus their approach towards the design of custom systems, which will allow them [16   262 


 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 Arts and Humanities Multidisciplinary Decision Sciences Medicine Materials Science Social Sciences Biochemistry, Genetics and Molecular Biology Physics and Astronomy Business Management and Accounting Mathematics Engineering Computer Science Papers  Fig. 1  Subject areas researching Big Data, Elsevierís Research Trends  1 Field monitoring \(numerical data acquisition, detailed image-capturing system 2 Construction of a Data Acquisition System These custom made systems, will later be linked to the Japan Meteorological Agency for further crosscheck analysis These are based on the farmerís expertise, which will give the core information the system designer or integrator, which will decide the different sensors, networks and data format. Further the generated data will be stored in Data Bases for further analysis, in which case different visualization software packages could be used In the case of Company Research Centers they decided to pursue a wider approach in which not only the technical approach was tackled but also the Management Area as well as the business concerns from the producer point of view and the market point of view. In this case, retailers are considered the market, and other problems are shown as well, as the increasing elderly population that affects agriculture because there is no person to transmit the accumulated know-how [17 18   Although, both approaches could use the advantages of Big Data methodologies, there are some issues regarding its application 1 In the case of Academic Institutions, the need of a multidisciplinary team could increase the cost and complexity of the project, in which case, a re-engineering could be necessary in order to define specific research objectives the working group could work on, not focusing their efforts only in the ICT Agriculture but in different Big Data applications related to society 2 In the case of Company Research Institutions although they could have much more resources than Academic Institutions, their cost is still high for a market such Agriculture in which the instability of their yearly production, that could be affected by external factors, could badly affect their budget projections making this Company based Big Data application not affordable. Moreover, the investment made, if itís made must be comprehensible for the farmer or farmer community also the farmer must understand completely the scenario in which its information will work and how it will work something that could be difficult to achieve due to the unique characteristics of the target group V  T HE NEDO  P ROJECT  NEDO \(New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization\in Japan is the Governmental Organization in charge of the promotion of addressing energy and global environmental problems, and the enhancement of Japanís Industrial competitiveness, through research and development, not only in Japanese territory but also abroad Currently, NEDO is the largest Research and Development organization in Japan that invested in different research and development projects, from Energy to the resolution of various issues  In the case of this project, the main target is to create a system that could provide healthy food suggestions to the user and, if the user decides, provide as well the food he/she will require for their daily needs The system is a conglomerate of farmers, transportation companies and restaurants that will generate a considerable amount of data. The objective is to use Big Data analysis methodologies in order find specific patterns that could improve the efficiency and accuracy of the food suggestion system. Due to the work group in which this project is being done, each active member of the group has a different and specific task Therefore, the cost included for this project could be less compared to research initiatives in Academia and Company Research Institutions. So far the project is in its beginning, and we are foreseeing all the necessary details for its correct development VI  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  Since the project is in its beginning stage it must consider every Big Data aspect as well as its issues and trends Big Data, being a relative new trend, must be used according to the highest ethical behavior in order to ensure the user confidence towards any Big Data Application We must ensure the privacy and data protection towards the end user to strength the link between the different actors of the NEDO Big Data project The different data sets that will be used in the project must be standardized in order to avoid loosing granularity The results of the analysis must be just a part of the global and multidisciplinary analysis towards the improvement of the general recommendation made by the system ICT Agriculture in Japan \(usually consider  under the Sensor Networksî research\has been a trend topic due to the 263 


diverse factors that could affect harvest and the supply chain between producers and retailers. The developed initiatives academic and company research based ones, have common objectives towards the improvement of the quality of the harvest as well to improve the profit the producer could make if all external factors could be predicted and avoided Research being done in Academic centers and Companies are facing specific problems regarding to their particular characteristics. In the case of Academic research the need of multidisciplinary team and the temporal characteristic of the projects could jeopardize the continuity of their projects. In the case of Research done in Companies, their main disadvantage is the cost that the farmer must pay in order to use the service Farmers have been facing some difficulties regarding their business because of the weather change, price instability and constant financial problems due to foreign competition Therefore, an expensive service like this could be only available to big producers in which case, markets are completely ensured for a long period of time The current NEDO project involves different specialized members that could improve drastically the output of the mentioned system without increasing its cost or causing external issues to the farmer or to the restaurants involved Therefore, the NEDO project have a competitive advantage if compared to current academic or company based research Handling the userís Data with the highest ethical behavior will ensure the userís confidence on the system and it will create a reliable environment towards the success of the project The next step in the project is the creation of the common platform as well as the algorithm design and analysis strategy A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was supported by New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization \(NEDO\ in ìIT Integration-based New Social System Development and Demonstration Projectsî, Grant No. 12102069 R EFERENCES  1  Research Trends: Special Issue on Big Data, Elsevier, Issue 30 September 2012 2  A. Beyer Mark, D. Laney. ìThe Importance of 'Big Data': A Definition Gartner, Jun. 21, 2012 3  R. Magoulas, and B. Lorica, ìIntroduction to Big Data,î OíReilly Media, Sebastopol, CA, USA, February 2009 4  A. Adamas, ìThe Pathologies of Big Dataî, Communications of the ACM, vol. 52, No. 8, Aug. 2009, pp. 36 ñ 44 5  D. Boyd, and K. Crawford, ìSix provocations for Big Dataî, A Decade in Internet Time: Symposium on the Dynamics of the Internet and Society, Oxford Internet Institute, Sep. 21, 2011 dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1926431 6  L. Manovich, ìTrending: The promises and the Challenges of Big Social Dataî, Debates in the Digital humanities, ed. M. K. Gold, The University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis, MN, Jul. 15, 2011 7  B. Meeder, J. Tam, P. Gage Kelley, and L. Faith Cranor, ìRT IWantPrivacy: Widespread Violation of Privacy Settings in the Twitter Social Network,î Web 2.0 Security and Privacy, W2SP 2011 Oakland, CA, USA, May 26, 2011 8  D. Agrawal, P. Bernstein, E. Bertino, S. Davidson, U. Dayal, M Franklin, J. Gehrke, L. Haas, A. Halevy, J. Han, H. V. Jagadish, A Labrinidis, S. Madden, Y. Papakonstantinou, J. Patel, R. Ramakrishnan K. Ross, C. Shahabi, D. Suciu, S.  Vaithyanathan, J. Widom Challenges and Opportunities with Big Data,î Community white paper Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, US, 2011 9  M. Zimmer, ìMore on the ìAnonymityî of the Facebook Dataset ñ Itís Harvard College,î MichaelZimmer.org Blog, Jun. 20, 2011   E. Troshynski, C. Lee, and P. Dourish, ìAccountabilities of presence reframing location-based systemsî, Proc. of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI '08\, ACM, 2008, New York, NY, USA, 487 ñ 496. DOI=10.1145/1357054.1357133   D. Bollier, The Promise and Peril of Big Data, The Aspen Institute Communications and Society Program, 2010   B. Latour, ìTradeís idea of quantificationî, The Social After Gabriel Trade: Debates and Assessments, Ed. M. Candea, London: Routledge Jun. 19, 2011, pp. 145 ñ 162   L. Gitelman, "Raw Data" Is An Oxymoron, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Press, 2013   P. Zikopoulos, C. Eaton, D. DeRoos, T. Deutsch, and G. Lapis Understanding Big Data, McGraw-Hill, New York, 2012   World Summit on the Information Society \(WSIS\. The Tunis Agenda for the Information Society, United Nations, Nov. 18, 2005   R. Ito, A. Hashimoto, H. Okuda, T. Togami, T. Kameoka, N. Suzaki, H Ithinokiyama, O. Hidekazu, M. Nishijima, M. Nakamura, A. Fujita, N Numano, H. Yagyu, T. Kamiya, and H. Shima, ìAdvanced application of ICT to the sustainable production of excellent Japanese Mandarin Proc. AFITA 2010 International Conference, The Quality Information for Competitive Agricultural Based Production System and Commerce Bogor, Indonesia, Oct. 2010, pp. 45 ñ 50   Y. Satake, and T. Yamazaki, ìUsing Food and Agriculture Cloud to Improve Value of Food Chainî, Fujitsu Sci. Tech. J. Vol. 47, No. 4, Oct 2011, pp. 378 ñ 386   Wakana S., and Yaginuma Y.: Approaches to Creating Human-Centric Solutions. In: Fujitsu Sci. Tech. J. Vol. 48, No. 2, pp. 129 ñ 134 \(2012   New Energy and Industrial Technology Developlment Organization http://www.nedo.go.jp   264 





mance This is especially important when dealing with the ever-increasing amount of data in parallel computing Mesos 12 i s a platform for s h aring c ommodity clus ters between multiple diverse cluster computing frameworks Mesos shares resources in a ne-grained manner allowing frameworks to achieve data lo cality by taking turns reading data stored on each machine CloudBLAST 13 a dopts a MapReduce paradigm to parallelize gnome index and search tools and manage their executions in the cloud VisIO 14 obtains a linear scalability of I/O bandwidth for ultrascale visualization by exploiting data locality of HDFS The aforementioned data movement solutions work in different contexts from DL-MPI V C ONCLUSION In this paper we propose a data locality interface and a dynamic scheduler to support exible mapping of compute processes for MPI-based data-intensive programs allowing them to take advantage of the l ocality information provided by HDFS The interface is designed to be easily adopted by existing MPI programs so that traditional applications can take advantage of it without massive code rewriting By testing our DL-MPI prototype system with real-world data we saw signi cant performance improvement over traditional MPI architectures These improvement were enhanced even further by increasing the data and cluster size We also saw performance and scalability improvement in mpiBLAST by using our DL-MPI probability scheduler algorithm By allowing for the easy integration of data locality awareness in the MPI programming model in the form of our DLMPI we believe that MPI-bas ed data-intensive applications can ef ciently run on commodity cluster VI A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This work is supported in part by the US National Science Foundation Grant CCF-0811413 CNS-1115665 and National Science Foundation Early Career Award 0953946 R EFERENCES 1 A  D ar l i ng L  C a r e y  and W  c F e ng T he desi gn i m plementation and evaluation of mpiblast Proceedings of ClusterWorld  vol 2003 2003 2  S uper c omput i n g 2008 e x ascal e w or kshop  http://www.lbl.gov/CS/html/SC08ExascalePowerWorkshop index.html   C p l e x l i n ear programmi ng  http://www.aimms.com/aimms/solvers/cplex  J  C  B ennet t  H Abbasi  P  T  Bremer  R  G rout  A  G yul assy  T Jin S Klasky H Kolla M Parashar V Pascucci P Pebay D Thompson H Yu F Zhang and J Chen Combining insitu and in-transit processing to enable extreme-scale scientific analysis in Proceedings of the International Conference on High Performance Computing Networking Storage and Analysis  ser SC 12 Los Alamitos CA USA IEEE Computer Society Press 2012 pp 49:1ñ49:9 5 X  W u K V i j a yakumar  F  M uel l e r  X Ma a nd P  C  Roth Probabilistic communication and i/o tracing with deterministic replay at scale in Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Parallel Processing ser.ICPP 11 Washington DC USA IEEE Computer Society 2011 pp 196ñ205  S  L akshmi narasi mhan J  J enki ns I  A rkat kar  Z  Gong H.Kolla,S.-H.Ku,S.Ethier,J.Chen,C.S.Chang,S.Klasky R Latham R Ross and N Samatova Isabela-qa Querydriven analytics with isabela-compressed extreme-scale scienti cdata,îin High Performance Computing Networking Storage and Analysis SC 2011 International Conference for  2011 pp 1ñ11  H A vron and A  G upt a Managi n g d at a-mo v e ment for effective shared-memory parallelization of out-of-core sparse solvers in Proceedings of the International Conference on High Performance Computing Networking Storage and Analysis  ser SC 12 Los Alamitos CA USA IEEE Computer Society Press 2012 pp 102:1ñ102:11 8 Z  Z hang D S  Kat z  J  M  W ozni ak A  E spi nosa and I Foster Design and analysis of data management in scalable parallel scripting in High Performance Computing Networking Storage and Analysis SC 2012 International Conference for  2012 pp 1ñ11  Y  W a ng W  Ji ang and G  A gra w a l  S ci mat e  A no v e l mapreduce-like framework for multiple scienti cdataformats in Proceedings of the 2012 12th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster Cloud and Grid Computing ccgrid 2012  ser CCGRID 12 Washington DC USA IEEE Computer Society 2012 pp 443ñ450  K Meht a J B e nt  A  T or r e s G Gr i d er  a nd E  Gabr i e l  A plugin for hdf5 using plfs for improved i/o performance and semantic analysis in Proceedings of the 2012 SC Companion High Performance Computing Networking Storage and Analysis  ser SCC 12 Washington DC USA IEEE Computer Society 2012 pp 746ñ752 11 J He J  B en t A T o rres G Grid er  G  G ib so n  C M a ltzah n  and X.-H Sun I/o acceleration with pattern detection in Proceedings of the 22nd international symposium on Highperformance parallel and distributed computing ser.HPDC 13 New York NY USA ACM 2013 pp 25ñ36  B  Hi ndman A  K onwi n ski  M Z a har i a A Ghodsi  A D Joseph R Katz S Shenker and I Stoica Mesos a platform for ne-grained resource sharing in the data center in Proceedings of the 8th USENIX conference on Networked systems design and implementation  ser NSDIí11 Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2011 pp 22ñ22  A Mat s unaga M  T suga w a  a nd J For t es  C l oudbl ast  C o mbining mapreduce and virtualization on distributed resources for bioinformatics applications in eScience 2008 eScience 08 IEEE Fourth International Conference on  Dec pp 222 229  C  Mi t c hel l  J Ahr e ns a nd J W a ng V i s i o  E nabl i n g i nt er active visualization of ultra-scale time series data via highbandwidth distributed i/o systems in Parallel Distributed Processing Symposium IPDPS 2011 IEEE International  May pp 68ñ79 511 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  7 From an edification position, the project participants gain 223real-world\224 understanding of responding to the needs of future employers. From a programmatic position, the lack of payload utilization introduces lack of mission relevance R EFERENCES   1  J  C h o n  H  K i m   C  S  L i n  S e a m l i n e  determination for image mosaicing: A technique minimizing the maximum local mismatch and the global cost. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Volume 65, Issue 1, January 2010, Pages 86-92  2 G  E r us N i c o l a s Lo m\351 ni e  H o w t o i nvo l ve  structural modeling for cartographic object recognition tasks in high-resolution satellite images? Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 31 Issue 10, 15 July 2010, Pages 1109-1119  3  Y  L i n g  M  E h l e r s  E  L  U s e r y  M  M a d d e n  F F T enhanced IHS transform method for fusing highresolution satellite images. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Volume 61 Issue 6, February 2007, Pages 381-392  4 A  Ad d a i m   A K h e r r a s  E  B  Za n t o u  D S P  implementation of integrated store-and-forward APRS payload and OBDH subsystems for low-cost small satellite. Aerospace Science and Technology Volume 12, Issue 4, June 2008, Pages 308-317 5  Matth e w B r o w n a n d Da v i d  G. L o w e Au to m at i c Panoramic Image Stitching using Invariant Features.  International Journal of Computer Vision. Volume 74, Number 1 \(2007\59-73    D. T u rn er A Lu cieer C  W a ts on 20 12 A n  Automated Technique for Generating Georectified Mosaics from Ultra-High Resolution Unmanned Aerial Vehicle \(UAV\magery, Based on Structure from Motion \(SfM\oint Clouds Remote Sensing  4 5\2-1410  7 L Q i n g yua n L W e n y a n g Z Le i  W  J i nl i ng a n d  L. You. "A New Approach To Fast Mosaic UAV Images International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences Vol. XXXCIII-1/C22     A   Z o m e t    S  Pel e g  1998, O c t ober A ppl y i ng  super-resolution to panoramic mosaics. In Applications of Computer Vision, 1998. WACV'98 Proceedings., Fourth IEEE Workshop on pp. 286287    J. S t ra u b  223 M odel Ba s e d Da t a  T ran sm i s s i o n   Analysis of Link Budget Requirement Reduction\224 Communications and Network 2012   S  C  Par k M.K  Par k   M. G  K a ng 2003 Super-resolution image reconstruction: a technical overview Signal processing Magazine, IEEE, 20 3 21-36 1  C a m b ri d g ei n c ol o u r  co m   N  d  Digital Image Interpolation Onlin A v a ila ble http://www.cambridgeincolour.com/tutorials/imageinterpolation.htm   M. Br y s o n  A R e id F Ra m o s    S. S u l l arie h  2010\Airborne vision-based mapping and classification of large farmland environments Journal Of Field Robotics 27\(5\655     O rbi t a l   223S ci ence, E n vi ronm e n t a l a n d T e c h n o l ogy  Satellites \226 Reliable Spacecraft Enabling Affordable Missions\224 \(2012 Corporate brochure  Biographies Abhilasha Bhatia  is a graduate student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota. She is a committee member of Student Association of India and also actively involved with Women in Science group at UND. She holds a Bachelor of Technology degree in Computer Science from Gautam Buddh Technical University, India   Kyle Goehner  is an undergraduate student pursuing a BS in Computer Science with a minor in Mathematics at the University of North Dakota  While at UND, Kyle has received numerous honors including the competitive Odegard Scholarship \(2011\, the Microsoft Scholarship 2011\, the Fetter Scholarship \(2010\ and the UND Community of Learners Scholarship \(2009-2013\.  Kyle\222s team placed in the top 10 at the Midwest Instruction and Computing Symposium Programming Competition.  He is active in the Association for Computing Machinery \(ACM serving as the chapter president from 2011 to 2013   John Sand  is an undergraduate student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota   Jeremy Straub is a PhD student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota.  He currently serves as the Student Program Director for the North Dakota Space Robotics Program.  His research is presently focused on artificial intelligence for space applications.  Before returning to pursue doctoral studies Mr. Straub held progressively responsible positions in industry.  He has over 10 years professional experience in developing and managing the development of cutting-edge commercial systems, including North America\222s first commercial traffic-adaptive nav igation system.  Jeremy holds a BS in Information Technology, a BS in Business, a graduate certificate in Space Studi es, an MBA and an MS in Computer Systems and Software Design.  He is a member of the AIAA, IEEE, SPIE and SSPI 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  8 Atif Farid Mohammad is an MIT certified Systems Architect and currently a PhD student in the Computer Science department at the University of North Dakota working on Cloud Computing Security. Atif has more than sixteen years of experience in software engineering professional business systems analysis, design, application development and staff management for diversified business and educational organizations. He is a member of IEEE ACM and AST Christoffer Korvald is a MS student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota Christoffer is the President of the local chapter of the Upsilon Pi Epsilon Honor Society. He is currently the president of the Association of Norwegian Students Abroad USA, which has over 1500 members. Christoffer holds a BA in Computer Science with a Software Engineering specialization from the University of North Dakota. He is also the Associate Director of Software for the Open Orbiter Satellite Initiative  Anders Kose Nervold is an undergraduate student at the University of North Dakota pursuing a BA in Entrepreneurship with a minor in Space Studies. Anders is currently serving as the Associate Director for Communications, Outreach and Policy for the Open Orbiter Satellite Initiative. While at UND, Anders worked as a console operator for the International Space Station Agricultural Camera \(ISSAC\.  In 2012, Anders and his business partner claimed the 1 st prize in the GIANTS international business plan competition for their planned service venture in the aerospace industry.  Anders is currently serving as the treasurer for the nationwide student organization, the Association of Norwegian Students Abroad \226 USA, which has over 1300 members.  He has also served as the local president for the Association of Norwegian Students Abroad and as the treasurer for the Interfraternity Council.  He was awarded the competitive Mueller Scholarship in 2012 and the Lillian Elsinga Outstanding Student Leader Award in 2011.  Anders is also a member of the Dakota Space Society and mentors other international students at UND    


Jorda Polo, David Carrera, Yolanda Becerra, Malgorzata Steinder  and Ian Whalley. Performance-driven task co-scheduling for  mapreduce environments. In Network Operations and Management  Symposium \(NOMS\2010 IEEE, pages 373 Ö380, 19-23 2010 12 K. Kc and K. Anyanwu, çScheduling hadoop jobs to meet deadlines  in 2nd IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing  Technology and Science \(CloudCom\, 2010, pp. 388 Ö392 13 Xicheng Dong, Ying Wang, Huaming Liao çScheduling Mixed Real time and Non-real-time Applications in MapReduce Environment  In the proceeding of 17th International Conference on Parallel and  Distributed Systems. 2011, pp. 9 Ö 16 14 Xuan Lin, Ying Lu, J. Deogun, and S. Goddard. Real-time divisible  load scheduling for cluster computing. In Real Time and Embedded  Technology and Applications Symposium, 2007. RTAS ê07. 13th  IEEE pages 303 Ö314, 3-6 2007 15 HDFS  http://hadoop.apache.org/common/docs/current/hdfsdesign.html  16 Chen He, Ying Lu, David Swanson. çMatchmaking : A New  MapReduce Scheduling Techniqueé. In the proceeding of 2011  CloudCom, Athens, Greece, 2011, pp. 40 Ö 47 17 Matei Zaharia, Dhruba Borthakur, Joydeep Sen Sarma and Khaled  Elmeleegy, Scott Shenker, and Ion Stoica, çDelay scheduling: a  simple technique for achieving locality and fairness in cluster  schedulingé. In the proceedings of the 5th European conference on  Computer systems, 2010.  pp 265-278 18 Zhuo Tang, Junqing Zhou, Kenli Li, and Ruixuan Li "A MapReduce  task scheduling algorithm for deadline constraints.", Cluster  Computing, Vol. 15,  2012 19 Eunji Hwang, and Kyong Hoon Kim. "Minimizing Cost of Virtual  Machines for Deadline-Constrained MapReduce Applications in the  Cloud." Grid Computing \(GRID\, 2012 ACM/IEEE 13th  International Conference on. IEEE, 2012 20 Micheal Mattess, Rodrigo N. Calheiros, and Rajkumar Buyya  Scaling MapReduce Applications across Hybrid Clouds to Meet Soft  Deadlines." Technical Report CLOUDS-TR-2012-5, Cloud  Computing and Distributed Systems Laboratory, the University of  Melbourne, August 15, 2012 21 
 
11 
                
Chen He, Ying Lu, David Swanson. çReal-Time Application Scheduling in Heterogeneous MapReduce Environments Technical Report TR-UNL-CSE2012-0004, University  of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2012 Available: http://cse apps.unl.edu/facdb/publications/TR-UNL-CSE20120004.pdf 22 T. Condie, N. Conway, P. Alvaro, J. M. Hellerstein, K  Elmleegy, and R. Sears. çMapreduce Onlineé. In NSDI 2010 23 A. D. Ferguson, P. BodÌk, S. Kandula, E. Boutin, and R  Fonseca. çJockey: Guaranteed Job Latency in Data Parallel Clusters. In EuroSys, 2012 24 G. Wang, A. R. Butt, P. Pandey, and K. Gupta. çA Simulation Approach to Evaluating Design Decisions in MapReduce Setupsé. In MASCOTS 2009 25 H. Herodotou and S. Babu. Profiling, çWhat-if Analysis and Cost-based Optimization of MapReduce Programs In VLDB 2011 26 H. Herodotou, F. Dong, and S. Babu. çNo One \(Cluster Size Fits All: Automatic Cluster Sizing for Dataintensive Analyticsé. In SoCC 2011  
1544 
1544 


Figure 15  3D model of the patio test site Figure 16  Model of the patio test site combining 2D map data with 3D model data a Largest explored area b Smallest explored area Figure 14  Maps built by a pair of 2D mapping robots Yellow indicates area seen by both robots Magenta indicates area seen by one robot and Cyan represents area seen by the other a 3D point cloud built of the patio environment Figure 16 shows a model built combining 2D map data with 3D model data A four-robot mission scenario experiment was conducted at the mock-cave test site This included two 2D mapping robots a 3D modeling robot and a science sampling robot There was no time limit on the run Figure 17 shows a 3D model of the tunnel at the mock cave Figure 18 shows a model built combining 2D map data with 3D model data 7 C ONCLUSIONS  F UTURE W ORK The multi-robot coordination framework presented in this paper has been demonstrated to work for planetary cave mission scenarios where robots must explore model and take science samples Toward that end two coordination strategies have been implemented centralized and distributed Further a core communication framework has been outlined to enable a distributed heterogenous team of robots to actively communicate with each other and the base station and provide an online map of the explored region An operator interface has been designed to give the scientist enhanced situational awareness collating and merging information from all the different robots Finally techniques have been developed for post processing data to build 2  3-D models of the world that give a more accurate description of the explored space Fifteen 2D mapping runs with 2 robots were conducted The average coverage over all runs was 67 of total explorable area Maps from multiple robots have been merged and combined with 3D models for two test sites Despite these encouraging results several aspects have been identi\002ed that can be enhanced Given the short mission durations and small team of robots in the experiments conducted a simple path-to-goal costing metric was suf\002cient To use this system for more complex exploration and sampling missions there is a need for learning-based costing metrics Additional costing parameters have already been identi\002ed and analyzed for future implementation over the course of this study One of the allocation mechanisms in this study was a distributed system however task generation remained centralized through the operator interface In an ideal system robots would have the capability to generate and auction tasks based on interesting features they encounter Lastly the N P complete scheduling problem was approximated during task generation However better results could potentially 10 


Figure 17  3D model of the tunnel in the mock cave test site Figure 18  Model of the mock cave test site combining 2D map data with 3D model data be obtained by releasing this responsibility to the individual robots A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors thank the NASA STTR program for funding this project They would also like to thank Paul Scerri and the rCommerceLab at Carnegie Mellon University for lending hardware and robots for this research R EFERENCES  J C W erk er  S M W elch S L Thompson B Sprungman V Hildreth-Werker and R D Frederick 223Extraterrestrial caves Science habitat and resources a niac phase i study\\224 NASA Innovative Advanced Concepts NIAC Tech Rep 2003  G Cushing T  T itus and E Maclennan 223Orbital obser vations of Martian cave-entrance candidates,\224 in First Intl Planetary Caves Workshop  Carlsbad NM 2011  J W  Ashle y  M S Robinson B R Ha wk e A K Boyd R V Wagner E J Speyerer H Hiesinger and C H van der Bogert 223Lunar caves in mare deposits imaged by the LROC narrow angle camera,\224 in First Intl Planetary Caves Workshop  Carlsbad NM 2011  J W  Ashle y  A K Bo yd H Hiesinger  M S Robinson T Tran C H van der Bogert and LROC Science Team 223Lunar pits Sublunarean voids and the nature of mare emplacement,\224 in LPSC  The Woodlands,TX 2011  S Dubo wsk y  K Iagnemma and P  J Boston 223Microbots for large-scale planetary surface and subsurface exploration niac phase i.\224 NASA Innovative Advanced Concepts NIAC Tech Rep 2006  S Dubo wsk y  J Plante and P  Boston 223Lo w cost micro exploration robots for search and rescue in rough terrain,\224 in IEEE International Workshop on Safety Security and Rescue Robotics Gaithersburg MD  2006  S B K esner  223Mobility feasibility study of fuel cell powered hopping robots for space exploration,\224 Master's thesis Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2007  M T ambe D Pynadath and N Chauv at 223Building dynamic agent organizations in cyberspace,\224 IEEE Internet Computing  vol 4 no 2 pp 65\22673 March 2000  W  Sheng Q Y ang J T an and N Xi 223Distrib uted multi-robot coordination in area exploration,\224 Robot Auton Syst  vol 54 no 12 pp 945\226955 Dec 2006  A v ailable http://dx.doi.or g/10.1016/j.robot 2006.06.003  B Bro wning J Bruce M Bo wling and M M V eloso 223Stp Skills tactics and plays for multi-robot control in adversarial environments,\224 IEEE Journal of Control and Systems Engineering  2004  B P  Gerk e y and M J Mataric 223 A formal analysis and taxonomy of task allocation in multi-robot systems,\224 The International Journal of Robotics Research  vol 23 no 9 pp 939\226954 September 2004  M K oes I Nourbakhsh and K Sycara 223Heterogeneous multirobot coordination with spatial and temporal constraints,\224 in Proceedings of the Twentieth National Conference on Arti\002cial Intelligence AAAI  AAAI Press June 2005 pp 1292\2261297  M K oes K Sycara and I Nourbakhsh 223 A constraint optimization framework for fractured robot teams,\224 in AAMAS 06 Proceedings of the 002fth international joint conference on Autonomous agents and multiagent sys11 


tems  New York NY USA ACM 2006 pp 491\226493  M B Dias B Ghanem and A Stentz 223Impro ving cost estimation in market-based coordination of a distributed sensing task.\224 in IROS  IEEE 2005 pp 3972\2263977  M B Dias B Bro wning M M V eloso and A Stentz 223Dynamic heterogeneous robot teams engaged in adversarial tasks,\224 Tech Rep CMU-RI-TR-05-14 2005 technical report CMU-RI-05-14  S Thrun W  Bur g ard and D F ox Probabilistic Robotics Intelligent Robotics and Autonomous Agents  The MIT Press 2005 ch 9 pp 222\226236  H Mora v ec and A E Elfes 223High resolution maps from wide angle sonar,\224 in Proceedings of the 1985 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  March 1985  M Yguel O A ycard and C Laugier  223Update polic y of dense maps Ef\002cient algorithms and sparse representation,\224 in Intl Conf on Field and Service Robotics  2007  J.-P  Laumond 223T rajectories for mobile robots with kinematic and environment constraints.\224 in Proceedings International Conference on Intelligent Autonomous Systems  1986 pp 346\226354  T  Kanungo D Mount N Netan yahu C Piatk o R Silverman and A Wu 223An ef\002cient k-means clustering algorithm analysis and implementation,\224 IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence  vol 24 2002  D J Rosenkrantz R E Stearns and P  M Le wis 223 An analysis of several heuristics for the traveling salesman problem,\224 SIAM Journal on Computing  Sept 1977  P  Scerri A F arinelli S Okamoto and M T ambe 223T oken approach for role allocation in extreme teams analysis and experimental evaluation,\224 in Enabling Technologies Infrastructure for Collaborative Enterprises  2004  M B Dias D Goldber g and A T  Stentz 223Mark etbased multirobot coordination for complex space applications,\224 in The 7th International Symposium on Arti\002cial Intelligence Robotics and Automation in Space  May 2003  G Grisetti C Stachniss and W  Bur g ard 223Impro ving grid-based slam with rao-blackwellized particle 002lters by adaptive proposals and selective resampling,\224 in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  2005  227\227 223Impro v ed techniques for grid mapping with raoblackwellized particle 002lters,\224 IEEE Transactions on Robotics  2006  A Geiger  P  Lenz and R Urtasun 223 Are we ready for autonomous driving the kitti vision benchmark suite,\224 in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition CVPR  Providence USA June 2012  A N 250 uchter H Surmann K Lingemann J Hertzberg and S Thrun 2236d slam with an application to autonomous mine mapping,\224 in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  2004 pp 1998\2262003  D Simon M Hebert and T  Kanade 223Real-time 3-d pose estimation using a high-speed range sensor,\224 in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  1994 pp 2235\2262241 B IOGRAPHY  Ammar Husain received his B.S in Mechanical Engineering Robotics from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign He is pursuing an M.S in Robotic Systems Development at Carnegie Mellon University He has previously worked on the guidance and control of autonomous aerial vehicles His research interests lie in the 002eld of perception-based planning Heather Jones received her B.S in Engineering and B.A in Computer Science from Swarthmore College in 2006 She analyzed operations for the Canadian robotic arm on the International Space Station while working at the NASA Johnson Space Center She is pursuing a PhD in Robotics at Carnegie Mellon University where she researches reconnaissance exploration and modeling of planetary caves Balajee Kannan received a B.E in Computer Science from the University of Madras and a B.E in Computer Engineering from the Sathyabama Institute of Science and technology He earned his PhD from the University of TennesseeKnoxville He served as a Project Scientist at Carnegie Mellon University and is currently working at GE as a Senior Cyber Physical Systems Architect Uland Wong received a B.S and M.S in Electrical and Computer Engineering and an M.S and PhD in Robotics all from Carnegie Mellon University He currently works at Carnegie Mellon as a Project Scientist His research lies at the intersection of physics-based vision and 002eld robotics Tiago Pimentel Tiago Pimentel is pursuing a B.E in Mechatronics at Universidade de Braslia Brazil As a summer scholar at Carnegie Mellon Universitys Robotics Institute he researched on multi-robots exploration His research interests lie in decision making and mobile robots Sarah Tang is currently a senior pursuing a B.S degree in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Princeton University As a summer scholar at Carnegie Mellon University's Robotics Institute she researched multi-robot coordination Her research interests are in control and coordination for robot teams 12 


Shreyansh Daftry is pursuing a B.E in Electronics and Communication from Manipal Institute of Technology India As a summer scholar at Robotics Institute Carnegie Mellon University he researched on sensor fusion and 3D modeling of sub-surface planetary caves His research interests lie at the intersection of Field Robotics and Computer Vision Steven Huber received a B.S in Mechanical Engineering and an M.S in Robotics from Carnegie Mellon University He is curently Director of Structures and Mechanisms and Director of Business Development at Astrobotic Technology where he leads several NASA contracts William 223Red\224 L Whittaker received his B.S from Princeton University and his M.S and PhD from Carnegie Mellon University He is a University Professor and Director of the Field Robotics Center at Carnegie Mellon Red is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and a Fellow of the American Association for Arti\002cial Intelligence 13 


