201O 2nd International Conforence on Education Technology and Computer \(ICETC One-Time Knocking Framework using SPA and IPsec Jiun-Hau Liew, Shirty Lee, Ivy Ong Department of Ubiquitous IT Graduate School of Design & IT, Dongseo University Busan, Korea liew.jiun.hau@gmail.com l_ shirly ,ivy-ong2000}@yahoo.com Abstract-This paper presents an improved scheme over the existing Port-Knocking and Single Packet Authorization by employing One-Time Password to generate the authorization tokens for the server to verify the authenticity of client before allowing the deployment of dynamic firewall rules. This One Time Knocking framework utilizes mobile networks such as GSM or CDMA network as an out-out-band channel to create a 2-factor authentication. Our improved scheme protects against off-line and on-line dictionary and brute-force pass word attack. It also provides a strong association between Port-Knocking or Single Packet Authorization and the post authentication connectivity between the client and server thus stopping adversaries from hijacking the session by Man-In The-Middle attacks Keywords-Port Knocking; Single Packet Authorization; 2Factor Authentication; One-Time Password I. INlRODUCTION In the last 10 years, there have been many developments on the Internet. It continues to evolve. To-date, there exists various online applications and services and new ideas are still being built onto it. Together with uprising of the new applications and services over the Internet, the amount of sensitive information also become increasing. As a result there are now more attacks and security risks on the Internet compared to 10 years back In response to that, security schemes and systems were created and deployed to mitigate the attacks and risks. How ever, the attacks have also got better. Malicious adversaries have improvised their attacks from passive to active and have recently become more automated [1] with the use of trojans, worms and botnets. On most part, firewalls can be used to block and slow down remote attacks coming from these automated programs but it is not a perfect solution as applications and services that bind to certain ports need to 


remain opened to allow users to access remotely. If these attacks are of zero-day [2], the servers running those appli cations and services could be compromised even though they are being shielded by firewalls Luckily there is a possible solution. Such attacks could be protected by using Port-Knocking \(PK  firewall. Due to some weakness found in the PK design, Sin gle Packet Authorization \(SPA  provement over PK. Both PK and SPA work by allowing firewall to set "Deny" as the default reaction for communica tion send to all the ports. Only successful authentications 978-1-4244-6370-11$26.00  2010 IEEE Hoon-Jae Lee, Hyotaek Lim Department of Computer Engineering Dongseo University Busan, Korea hjlee,htlim}@dongseo.ac.kr with the PKISP A daemon will allow authentic clients to pass through the firewall and connect to the corresponding ports The mechanism will be explained in more depth in the later sections of this paper In this paper, we proposed a framework that uses a One Time Password \(OTP Random Number Generator \(PRNG passed to the user who wishes to perform PKISP A authoriza tion through SMS. Finally the OTP will be input to PKISP A client to generate the authorization token and build up an IPsec VPN tunnel The structure of this paper is organized as follows. We will first go through a brief review on some cryptographic primitives related to the content of this paper. Section III discusses some related works of PK and SPA and their issues In section IV we describe our OTK framework. In section V we will explain how the security issues could be solved with the new OTK scheme. We then analyze our OTK from secu rity perspective and discuss any possible weakness in securi ty. Finally we conclude by giving a sununary II. CRYPTOGRAPHIC PRIMITIVES A. Cryptographic Algorithm This could refer to a cipher \(asymmetric or symmetric which further divides into block or stream-based hash function or pseudo random function [2]. These algo 


rithms are used as building blocks of a cryptographic system B. Random Number Generator \(RNG RNG produces a series of numbers that are random or appeared to be random \(unpredictable Pseudo-random \(PRNG TRNG  PRNG is based on deterministic computations while TRNG produces random number by sampling unpredictable physi cal events. TRNG is usually built on top of hardware while a PRNG can be more flexibly implemented in software with the help of some cryptographic primitives, e.g. a block cipher running on Counter Mode or a stream cipher which the ran dom numbers produced are suitable for cryptographic pur pose C. Keyed Hash Function Also known as a Message Authentication Code \(MAC V5-209 20i 0 2nd international Conforence on Education Technology and Computer \(ICETC Client Eve a b PK Accept Inactive Deny c Figure 1. Port Knocking algorithm. It uses one-way cryptographic hash function to generate a MAC by feeding a message of arbitrary length and a secret key [2]. Nonces may also be included. Unlike the hash function which only provides integrity verification a MAC also provide authenticity verification assuming that the secret key is only known by trusted entities D. Firewall A firewall is a piece of software program running on a computer system or a hardware device placed between a protected network and an unprotected network that examined all network traffic between these two networks [5]. It prohi bits unauthorized inbound and outbound data packets based on a set of predefined security policies, protecting the under lying services or resources from being intruded by malicious parties. Only trusted traffic is allowed to pass through the 


firewall whereas restricted traffic is discarded E. IPsec IPsec is an open standard protocol suite [6] used in net work layer for Internet Protocol \(IP ty control. Internet Authentication Header \(AH sulating Security Payload \(ESP available in IPsec, in which the formal offers data origin authentication, integrity protection and against replay attack while the latter offers the same services but with an addition al confidentiality protection. Each of the protocols supports transport mode or tunnel mode. In transport mode, the IP packet payload is encrypted or authenticated; whereas in tunnel mode, the entire IP packet \(comprising of IP header and payload Private Network \(VPN Security Association \(SA and parameters that is used by IPsec to protect network traf fic. It can be managed manually or automatically. A pair of SAs is required to create and coordinate at two end points in a bi-directional communication. An IPsec implementation must have at least one Security Policy Database \(SPD where protection is provided based on rules set in the SPD Entries that defined security parameters associated with dif ferent SAs are stored in a Security Association Database SAD IKE  to negotiate, establish and auto-manage SAs. It dynamically establishes a shared state environment in IPsec as a replace ment to the manual state handling III. RELATED WORKS The first academic publication as research paper of the idea of firewall authentication was back in 2002 [8] and was then later coined as PK in 2003 [3]. The mechanism of PK was initially a simple solution to allow concealment of net work ports, depicted in Figure 1. Using PK daemon, firewall rules can be dynamically modified based on the authenti cated "knocking". SPA works similarly to PK by using a single packet to perform authentication on the firewall and it solved a few issues [4][9] in PK After the idea of PK and SPA were published, many network administrators and researchers have worked on the actual implementation. Jeanquier performed a thorough V5-210 


20iO 2nd international Conference on Education Technology and Computer \(iCETC 5 client IPsec SA and setup SAD/SPD Internet 8 data exchange through IPsec VPN t;,-;';/-Net;;,k --, I I I I \(7 derive server IPsec SA and setup SAD/SPD ? o ? , 'r9 j Firewall Server eety with SPA Daemon  Ie v  n   0'0    Application Server SSHD 1 User _ ---------- \( 3b Out-of-band Channel 2 Transceiver RNG Server _ Figure 2. One-Time Knocking Framework analysis [9] and pointed out a few issues. One of them is the password-based cryptographic keys. From the list in [10], we found various existing works on PK and SPA but unfortu nately most of them use static password to generate the re quired knocks and only few are still being maintained for continuous development. Furthermore only 2 out of 36 im 


plementations, namely Cerberus [11] and COK [12] de scribed that OTP was used in generating the knocks. Howev er the OTP methods used in both implementations are based on static password as well. This is a problem because once the token is captured by the adversary, the adversary could launch off-line password search using dictionary or brute force method In Cerberus, its OTP is generated by hashing together 4 pieces of information: time-stamp \(up to minute accuracy server seed, user's pass-code and the source IP address Timestamps can be easily deduced by matching the time of sniffing the knock and the source IP is easily retrievable from the IP packet header. The server seed and user pass code remain static and are reused every time which nullified the concept of one-time usage. The use of time-stamp how ever provides a salt in the hashing process and stop replay attack COK uses a different approach which OTP method is based on hash chaining used in SlKey system described in 13][14][15]. The user's password is hashed iteratively to create a chain of outputs. Since each output of a secure hash function is irreversible, by using these outputs in reverse order, they become the OTPs. Similar to Cerberus, this OTP method only stops replay attacks while vulnerable to offline password search and stolen-verifier attack [16 It is also worth noting that both implementations are no longer being maintained and updated frequently. To-date fwknop [4] \(SPA variant tation that is still being actively maintained. Its authentica tion tokens are generated using the method quite similar to Cerberus. Newer versions of fwknop do support tokens to be generated using asymmetric cryptographic algorithms of which brute-forcing private keys that are very large in bit size is much harder. However, the private keys can still be stolen when used on computers that have been compromised with trojans and key-loggers Another particular problem to be noted is the association between the knock and the post-knocking connectivity to the port opened by the knock. There is no guarantee that the client who connects to the open port is the same client that who is authenticated to the port since there is no linkage in between. Using spoofed IP in a standard Man-in-the-Middle 


MITM client that is connecting to the open port while dropping all further traffic from the original client to the server after it has done the knocking. Current existing implementations have no way to detect and stop this kind of hijacking In the later sections of this paper, we will use PK and SPA interchangeably and either one of the terms refers to both variants V5-211 IV 2010 2nd International Conference on Education Technology and Computer \(ICETC ONE-DMEKNOCKING KJ will be used to encrypt data for SPA confidentialIty, K2 will be used to calculate MAC for SPA. K3 and K4 will be A. Notations ID User's identity TS - Time-stamp PSA - Parameters of an IPsec SA m - Plain-text mJ II m2 - Concatenation of ml and m2 K - Secret key K E\(K, m H\(K, m KDF\(K, S, 1 K and salt S and iterate i times B. Proposed Scheme Instead of having the users to choose a static password which may or may not be strong and updated frequently, we propose that to allow the system to generate random pass word of sufficient length in real time by using a cryptograph ically-secure PRNG. It is also possible to use a TRNG but it would be costly. PRNG is easier to implement and would be more flexible. Our proposed framework is simplified and shown in Figure 2 When user requires an OTP, request can be made by sending SMS \(in a certain format nario, the SMS channel is considered out-of-band \(OOB Server will generate the OTP and pass it back to user through the same OOB channel. User's mobile number needs to be pre-registered with the server so that only requests from es tablished, trusted number will be processed to avoid unau thorized request from other sources. One example of such 


SMS could contain REQOTP<ID It should be mentioned that unless the OTP is consumed or the validity time exceeded, the RNG server should not generate a new OTP. This is to protect the RNG server from being spammed by SMS with spoofed mobile numbers. If the server kept refreshing the OTP when it received SMS requests for the same ID, then the user cannot pick the cor rect OTP to be used. This leads to a DoS attack on user's side. Although the RNG server can generate the OTP effi ciently, the server may still suffer from DoS attack if the OTP mechanism is not being protected in such way. SMS reply from the server would include Time-stamp>: <Random Port> <OTP Time-stamp allows the user to detect the freshness of OTP and the SPA packet containing the authorization token must be sent to the specified random port. Once the OTP and the port is input to the SPA client, it will go through a Key Derivation Function \(KDF 17] to derive 4 more keys of sufficient size. The random port will be used as salt/nonce in the KDF as follow KJII K211 K311 K4 = KDF\(OTP, Port , 1 where i ? 1000 used for IPsec VPN which will be explained shortly. The SPA packet is shown as below SPA = ID II TS II E\(KJ. PSA MACspA = H\(K2' ID II TS II E\(KJ, PSA Using OTP together with KDF will further strength the OTP and makes password search extremely hard. However this authorization token would not be secure if it is used alone since adversary could always spoof the source IP to hijack the connection. The security of this scheme relies on the use of IPsec VPN to create a strong association for post knocking connectivity. SA can be derived using the parame ters passed in the SPA packet. The earlier derived K3 is then used in VPN encryption and K4 is used for VPN integrity calculation ESP = E\(K3, header II m MACEsP = H\(K4' E\(K3, header II m After SAs are derived at both client and server, they are then installed directly into Security Association Database SAD SPD 


to go through the initial Internet Key Exchange \(IKE process. The server does not need to reply any information back to the client until the SPA packet is verified and client has initiated VPN communication. This allows the firewall that is being protected by PKiSP A to remain stealthy. Inter net Security Association and Key Management Protocol lSAKMP throughout the VPN communication V. SECURITY ANALYSIS We assumed that the adversary could perform MITM at tack to allow eavesdropping and modification, the environ ment that user performed port knocking is compromised with trojan and key-loggers may not be cooperative with the same adversary and captured data is not updated to the adversary in real-time. After the user input the OTP, the knock is gen erated and sent to the server. As soon as the SPA knock is verified, a secure VPN will be immediately created in place Table I summarized the differences and the advantages of our scheme compared to the schemes used in existing im plementations. The details are explained in the following subsections A. Replay Protection Each OTP is used exactly once. Once the knock is sent and verified, it is no longer valid for re-use. The IPsec tunnel created for the post-knocking connectivity also protect its communication from replay attack using a sliding window over the sequence numbers of IPsec packets B. Strong Connectivity Association Adversary may capture the knock and hijack the connec tion after step \(6 open port in step \(8 V5-212 2010 2nd International Conforence on Education Technology and Computer \(ICETC the IP packet using IPsec ESP mode with K3 and also calcu- dering these drawbacks, one should decide whether or not to late the correct MAC with K4 otherwise the packet will be trade off in order to gain a more secure system dropped silently C. Password Search Resilience In order to derive K3 and K4, adversary needs to know what is the OTP being used. Dictionary-based password search would not be meaningful since the OTP is randomly 


generated. Brute-force search would not be feasible since KDF is used and it only works for one particular OTP. As sumed that adversary captured and dropped the encrypted packets from the user in step \(8 K4 from the ciphertexts within a short time is nearly impossi ble if the encryption and MAC algorithm used is secure D. Forward and Backward Secrecy Since the next OTP is randomly generated and unpredict able, there is no risk for any used OTP to be exposed. The adversary could do no more than decrypting the communica tion data that was encrypted using that particular OTP E. Key-stealing Resilience In the case of OTP is recorded by trojan and key-loggers the OTP becomes invalid after the server authenticated the knock from the user or after the time-out occurred at step \(6 Besides, the OTP will only get stored in the server for verifi cation purpose during its active period. If the adversary ma naged to launch a stolen verifier attack, the adversary cannot masquerade as either the user or server at a later time as each OTP only works within a short duration. The adversary will not be able to compromise the future SPA authentications TABLE!. COMPARISON OF EXISTING SCHEMES AND PROPOSED SCHEME Protection against attacks Existing Proposed Schemes Scheme Replav Attack Yes Yes Dictionary Password Search No Yes Brute-Force Password Search No Yes Stolen-Verifier Attack No Yes Connection Hijacking No Yes Except when fwknop uses asymmetric cryptographic algorithm VI. CONCLUSION The schemes used in the existing PKiSP A implementa tion were flawed and vulnerable to password search and MITM connection hijacking as well as stolen-verifier attack On top of that, there is no guarantee of backward and for ward secrecy since the same keys are used. By utilizing ma chine-generated OTPs, OOB communication and IPsec, we have designed a more secure SPA authentication scheme that withstands those attacks However, our scheme does have drawbacks. The direct insertion of SAs into SAD and SPD is not supported in the original IPsec design. The actual implementation of our 


scheme may require tricky modification on the existing IPsec protocol stack in the OS. Our scheme is also more complex compare to the schemes used by existing implementations Furthermore the cost would be increased due to requirement of OOB channel via mobile communication network. ConsiREFERENCES I] G. Ollmann, "A Botnet by Any Other Name," SecurityFocus, [Online I May 2009, [2009 Dec 14] Available http://www.securityfocus.comlcolumnistsJ501 2] W. Stallings, Cryptography and Network Security, 4th Edition Pearson Education, 2005 3] M. Krzywinski, "Port Knocking: Network Authentication Across Closed Ports," SysAdmin Magazine, vol. 12, no. 6, June 2003, pp 12-17 4] M. Rash, "Single Packet Authorization with Fwknop", The USENIX Magazine, vol. 31, no. 1, Feb 2006. pp. 63  http://www.usenix.org/publicationsJlogin!200602/pdfs/rash.pdf 5] J. F. Kurose and K. W. Ross, Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach, 5th Edition, Addison Wesley, Mar 2009 6] S. Kent and K. Seo, "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol IETF RFC 4301, [Online] Dec 2005, [2009 Dec 14] Available http://tools.ietf.org/htmllrfc4301 7] C. Kaufinan, Ed., "Internet Key Exchange \(IKEv2 RFC 4306, [Online] Dec 2005, [2009 Dec 14] Available http://tools.ietf.org/htmllrfc4306 8] P. Barham, S. Hand, R. Isaacs, P. Jardetzky, R. Mortier, and T Roscoe, "Techniques for Lightweight Concealment and Authentication in IP Networks," Intel Research Berkeley, IRB-TR 02-009, [Online] July 2002, [2009 Dec 14] Available http://www.intel-research.netlPublicationslBerkeley/012720031106 l11.pdf 9] S. Jeanquier, "An Analysis of Port Knocking and Single Packet Authorization," master's thesis, Information Security Group, Royal Holloway College, Univ. of London, 2006 10] M. Krzywinski, "Port Knocking Implementations," Port Knocking Online] 3 Nov 2009, [2009 Dec 14] Available http://www.portknocking.org/view/implementations 11] D. Epp, "Introduction to Cerberus: Port Knocking with covert packets to secretly open your firewall," Scorpion Software, [Online] II June 2004, [2009 Dec 14] Available http://silverstr.ufies.org/blog/Cerberus.ppt 12] D. Worth, "COK: Cryptographic One-Time Knocking," Black Hat 


USA 2004, [Online] July 2004, [2009 Dec 14] Available http://www.blackhat.comlpresentationslbh-usa-04lbh-us-04-worth up.pdf 13] L. Lamport, "Password Authentication with Insecure Communication," In Communications of the ACM, vol. 24, no. 11 Nov 1981, pp. 770-772 14] Neil Haller, "The SIKEY One-Time Password System," In Proceedings of the Internet Society Symposium on Network and Distributed Systems, Feb 1994, pp. 151-157 15] N. Haller, C. Metz, P. Nesser, and M. Straw, "A One-Time Password System," IETF RFC 2289, [Online] Feb 1998, [2009 Dec 14 Available: http://tools.ietforg/html/rfc2289 16] C. L. Lin, H. M. Sun, and T. Hwang, "Attacks and solutions on strong-password authentication," IEICE Transactions on Communications, vol. E84-B, no. 9, Sept 2001, pp. 2622-2627 17] B. Kaliski, "PKCS #5 : Password-Based Cryptography Specification Version 2.0," IETF RFC 2898, [Online] Sept 2000, [2009 Dec 14 Available: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2898 V5-213 


perfect number of intervals therefore we attempted to study density of data for each stage separately. The performed analysis resulted in different number of intervals between stages. The obtained number of intervals reflects the density and range of data in each stage as shown in Table I. For Association rule mining the minimum support is set by 0.01 and minimum confidence is set by 0.8. These values have been carefully chosen to avoid too few rules that would occur if the confidence was very high The theme of this paper is to address the following arising issue: can project manager relay on prior effort records to predict next stage effort? To answer this question, the proposed model has been evaluated using jack-knifing method. We used 34 projects with complete effort records. The complete procedure of experiment is described below 1. Project number i is removed from data set as test project \(i.e. for which the stage estimate is required 2. The proposed procedure applied on the remaining projects 3. Making prediction for the test project, and MRE and residuals of test project is recorded 4. Project i, which had been removed from the data set is added back Table II and Table III depict the results obtained by our proposed approach compared to exponential regression where target stage is regarded as dependent variable and all pervious stages as independent variables Table II we can observe that all outputs tend to be under estimation. Three out of five stages producing good estimate are specification, building and testing while design stage produced better results compared to implementation stage \(which produced the worst stage effort estimation in terms of MMRE related to that the ISBSG is scattered as result of collection from different worldwide companies. The effort records have complex structure in which there is no consistent structure for all effort records. Based on MdMRE we can observe that our approach in most of stages produced comparable estimation accuracy with maximum 30.2% in implementation stage 


 Table I.  Number of intervals Stage Interval No. Stage Interval No EP 7 ES 8 ED 10 EB 9 ET 8 EI 11  Table II.  Results using the proposed approach Stage Bias MMRE MdMRE ES -8.5% 27.0% 17.0 ED -33.1% 40.5% 13.7 EB -2.8% 9.3% 7.5 ET -11.6% 16.7% 7.23 EI -20% 91.0% 30.2  Table III.  Results using exponential regression Stage Bias MMRE MdMRE ES -24.3% 81.3% 49.7 ED -72.3% 120.4% 54.224 EB 0.7% 44.35% 37.6 ET -45.4% 81.1% 39.0 EI -179% 184% 104.0  Results shown in Table III revealed that most of predictions are under estimation which supports our approach findings. The best estimation accuracy was obtained in building stage, which also corroborates our findings that best estimation accuracy was in building stage. The negative values in Bias criterion show underestimation. It is acknowledged that MMRE is unbalanced in many validation circumstances and leads to overestimation more than underestimation. In our case, we found that MMRE leads to underestimation in most stages. This is may be related to the absence of systematic scheme between all prior effort records   253   Figure 1. Effort distribution of Planning stage 


Figure 2. Effort distribution of Specification stage Figure 3. Effort distribution of Design effort stage  Figure 4. Effort distribution of Building stage Figure 5. Effort distribution of Testing stage Figure 6. Effort distribution of Imp stage   Table IV. Statistical significance Stage sum rank Z-value p-Value ES 769 -4.31 <0.01 ED 713 -5.03 <0.01 EB 685 -5.4 <0.01 ET 595 -6.54 <0.01 EI 799 -3.93 <0.01  The comparison between our approach and exponential regression technique showed that there are considerable improvements in estimation accuracy on all phases of software development lifecycle. MMREs of our approach have been reduced by at least 35.05 and at most 93%. Biases have been reduced by at least 3.5% and at most 159%.We have to bear in mind that the length of interval plays important role in estimation accuracy, thus, when the universe of discourse is partitioned into several equal intervals, the distribution of data should be taken into account. Moreover, we should remove the extreme values because they affect interval partitioning, thus, estimation accuracy Figures 7 to 11 show comparison between proposed approach and exponential regression in each stage by using Boxplot. The Boxplot [17] offers a way to compare between estimation models based on their absolute residuals. The Boxplot is non-parametric statistics used to show the median as central tendency of distribution, interquartile range and the outliers of individual models [17]. The length of Boxplot from 


lower tail to upper tail shows the spread of the distribution. The length of box represents the interquartile range that contains 50% of observations The position of median inside the box and length of Boxplot indicate the skewness of distribution. A Boxplot with a small box and long tails represents a very peaked distribution while a Boxplot with long box represents a flatter distribution. The prominent and common characteristic among these figures is the spread of absolute residuals for our approach is less than spread of exponential regression which presents more accurate results. The larger interquartile of exponential regression indicates a high dispersion of the absolute residuals. The Boxplot revealed that the box length for our models is smaller than exponential regression which also indicates reduced variability of absolute residuals. The median of our model is smaller than median of exponential regression which revealed that at least half of the predictions of our model are more accurate than exponential regression 254  Figure 7. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the specification stage  Figure 8. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the design stage   Figure 9. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the building stage Figure 10. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the testing stage   The lower tails of our model is much smaller than upper tail which means the absolute residuals are skewed towards the smaller value Figure 11 illustrates the reason of why prediction of implementation stage in our approach produced the worst accuracy. The reason related to the existing of outlier. Although one project is considered as an outlier the MMRE is easily influenced with that project Based on the obtained results, we can observe that 


exponential regression gave bad accuracy. The reason may relate to the structure complexity of prior effort records. There is no correlation between all prior stages and target stage To ensure that the results obtained are not by chance we investigated the statistical significance of the proposed approach using Wilcoxon sum rank test for absolute residuals as shown in Table IV. In this test if the resulting p-value is small \(p<0.05 statistically significant difference can be accepted between the two samples median. The residuals obtained using the proposed approach were significantly different from those obtained by exponential regression Suggesting that, there is difference if the predications generated using the proposed approach or exponential regression and based on the accuracy comparison in Tables II and III we can safely conclude that our proposed method outperformed exponential regression for stage effort estimation Figure 11. Boxplot of absolute residuals for the implementation stage  VIII. CONCLUSIONS Some of software projects are failed due to the absence of re-estimation during software development which results in huge gap between initial plan and final outcome. Even with good estimate at first stage the project manager must keep update with project progress and should be able to re-estimate the project at any particular point of project in order to re-allocate the proper number of resources. The objective of this paper was to check whether the prior effort records can 255 be used to predict stage effort with reasonable accuracy or not. The obtained results revealed that using association rule and Fuzzy set theory lead to significant improvement in stage-effort estimation and give project manager an evolving picture about project progress. Comparing our approach with exponential regression showed that there is a considerable potential in estimation accuracy. As part of future plan, we 


intend to expand this work to involve some interesting features in each stage prediction and evaluate it on many datasets   REFERENCES  1] F. Ricardo, N. Ana, M. Paula, B. Gleidson, R. Fabiano ODE: Ontology-based software Development Environment, Proceedings of the IX Argentine Congress on Computer Science, pp. 1124-1135, 2003 2] E. Mendes, B. A. Kitchenham. Further comparison of cross-company and within-company effort estimation models for Web applications. In: Proc. 10th IEEE International Software Metrics Symposium, Chicago USA, pp.348-357, 2004 3] B. Boehm, R. Valerdi. Achievements and Challenges in Software Resource Estimation, Proceedings of ICSE 06 Shanghai, China, pp. 74-83,  2006 4] K. Molokken, M. Jorgensen. A review of software surveys on software effort estimation, Proceedings of International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering \(ISESE 2003 5] M. Jorgensen, K. Molokken-Ostvold. How large are software cost overruns? A review of the 1994 CHAOS report, Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48 issue 4. PP. 297-301, 2006 6] X. Huanga, D. Hob, J. Rena, L. F. Capretz. Improving the COCOMO model using a neuro-Fuzzy approach Applied Soft Computing, Vol.7, issue 1, pp. 29-40, 2007 7] L. Briand, T. Langley, I. Wieczorek. A replicated assessment and comparison of common software cost modeling techniques, Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on Software Engineering, 2000 8] S.-J Huang, N. H. Chiu. Optimization of analogy weights by genetic algorithm for software effort estimation Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48, issue 11 pp. 1034-1045, 2006 9] Z. Xu, T. M. Khoshgoftaar. Identification of Fuzzy models of software cost estimation, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Vol. 145, issue 1, pp. 141-163, 2004 10] R. Pressman. Software Engineering: practitioner 


approaches, McGraw Hill, London, 2004 11] M. Boraso, C. Montangero, H. Sedhi. Software cost estimation: an experimental study of model performance Universita di Pisa, Italy, 1996 12] Y. Wang, Q. Song, J. Shen., 2007. Grey Learning Based Software Stage-Effort Estimation. International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pp 1470-1475, 2007 13] S. G. MacDonell, M. J. Shepperd. Using prior-phase effort records for re-estimation during software projects Ninth International, Software Metrics Symposium, pp 73- 86, 2003 14] M .C Ohlsson, C. Wohlin. An Empirical Study of Effort Estimation during Project Execution, Sixth International Software Metrics Symposium \(METRICS'99 1999 15] N. H. Chiu,,S. J. Huang.  The adjusted analogy-based software effort estimation based on similarity distances Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 80, issue 4, pp 628-640, 2007 16] P. Sentas, L. Angelis, I. Stamelos, G.  Bleris. Software productivity and effort prediction with ordinal regression Information and Software Technology, Vol. 47, issue 1 pp. 17-29, 2005 17] E. Mendes, N. Mosley. Comparing effort prediction models for Web design and authoring using boxplots Australian Computer Science Communications,  Vol. 23 Issue 1, pp. 125-133, 2001 18] E. Mendes, N. Mosley, I. Watson. A comparison of casebased reasoning approaches, Proceedings of the 11th international conference on World Wide Web, pp. 272280, 2002 19] Q. Zhao, S. S. Bhowmick. Association Rule Mining: A Survey  http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/734613.html, 2003 20] S. Morisak, A. Monden, H. Tamada. An Extension of association rule mining for software engineering data repositories, Information Science Technical Report NAIST, 2006 21] Q. Song, M. Shepperd.  M. Cartwright, C. Mair. Software defect association mining and defect correction effort prediction, IEEE transaction on software engineering Vol. 32, No.2, pp. 69-82, 2006 


22] R. Agrawal, T. Amielinski, A. Swami. Mining association rule between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207-216, 1993 23] M-J. Huang, Y-L. Tsou, S-C. Lee.  Integrating Fuzzy data mining and Fuzzy artificial neural networks for discovering implicit knowledge, J. Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol.19 \(6 24] ISBSG International Software Benchmarking standards Group, Data repository release 10, Site http://www.isbsg.org, 2007 25] L. Zadeh. Toward a theory of Fuzzy information granulation and its centrality in human reasoning and Fuzzy logic. J. Fuzzy sets and Systems 90, pp. 111-127 1997 26] I. H. Witten, E. Frank. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques, 2nd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2005   256 


encountering a related term, i.e. IC\(c e intuition behind the use of the negative likelihood is that the more probable a term to appear, the less information it conveys. All these features show that Jiangs measure tends to be more general and more appropriate for evaluating nontaxonomically related terms. Indeed, a high score of the relatedness measures suggests a strong relationship between terms Nevertheless, all relatedness measures have limitations because they assume that all the semantic content of a particular term is modeled by semantic links in WordNet Consequently, in many situations, truly related terms obtain a low scores even though their belongings to a certain category of tags, e.g., jargon tags Additionally, when measuring the quality of an automatically knowledge acquisition results, the typical measures used in Information Retrieval are Recall, Precision and F-Measure. However, computing Recall and F-Measure requires the availability of a Gold Standard. Hence, we will only compute the Precision which speci?es to which extent the non-taxonomic relationships is extracted correctly. In this case, the ratio between the correctly extracted relations i.e., their relatedness measures is greater than or equal to a minimum threshold, and the whole number of extracted ones is computed. Thus, we have Precision Total correctly selected entities Total selected entities 12 http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-Similarity 13 A term refers to a tag subject or a tag object C. Evaluation of non-taxonomic relationships Only a percentage of the full set of non-taxonomic relationships \(89 is caused by the presence of non standard terms which are not contained in WordNet and, in consequence, cannot be evaluated using WordNet-based relatedness measures. Fig. 5 depicts the evaluation results of the extracted non-taxonomic relationships against their relatedness measures High relatedness score \(88 17% of the extracted relationships, as most of terms are strongly related with respect WordNet Null Scores were obtained for 5% of the extracted 


relationships. Analyzing this case in more detail, we have observed that the poor score is caused in many situations by the way in which Jiangs distance metric works. This latter completely depends on the distance between two terms based on the number of edges found on the path between them in WordNet. In consequence this measure returns a value that does not fully represent reality. For example, on the one hand, Jiangs distance metric returns a null value for the relationship between insurance and car, even though the ?rst is a commonly related to the second, i.e., car involved insurance Finally with a minimal Jiangs distance metric threshold, set to 46%, the computed precision of correctly extracted relationships candidates is equal to 68.8 An example of extracted non-taxonomic relationships is depicted in Table V where each relation describes the subject tag, e.g., tool, the predicate, e.g is being developed within, and the object tag, e.g mesh. Fig. 4 represent a fragment output of the extracted ontological structure where each concept de?nes a set of similar and synonym tags and labels, i.e., mentions has been, revealed, caused and is created with describe the predicates of the non-taxonomic relationships between terms Due to the limitations observed by the automatic evaluation procedure and the lack of gold standards containing non-taxonomic relationships, we have examined the extracted non-taxonomic relationships from a linguistic point 377 Top space      distance     quad great     groovy nifty caused address      addresses extension      quotation   reference  references extensions        referenz     source      refrence sources    rfrences    quotations research    search     searching searchs open-source     open_source 


opensource linux aim     design     designer      designers patern    project     patterns     projekte projects web+design    web_design webdesign internet       internetbs net          web network      networking networks      web discussion     news       password word      words community      communities is_created_with mentions revealed has_been Figure 4. A fragment output of the extracted ontological structure of view. This qualitative evaluation can bring some interesting insights about the kind of results one can expect Invalid relations are extracted: Even though a relation such as music cities skill is considered as correct one since tag subject, tag object and predicate are correctly extracted. From a semantic point of view, this relation has no meaning. Hence, a higher precision is expected Figure 5. Summary of non-taxonomic evaluation measure Table V EXAMPLES OF EXTRACTED NON TAXONOMIC RELATIONSHIPS Subject Predicate Object search has been reference reference mentions search tool is being developed within mesh security added encoding search revealed reference java provides library by performing the sense analysis on complete relations An ambiguity in the extracted predicates between terms is observed: Hence, same relations are redundant since they use a synonym predicates between terms, e.g java provides library and java yields library. Thus we expect that the redundancy removal within extracted relations will be of bene?t for the improvement of the 


obtained results VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK The extraction of non-taxonomic relationships from folksonomies is to the best of our knowledge is the least tackled task within ontology building from folksonomy. This is why there is a need of novel and general purpose approaches covering the full process of learning relationships. In this paper, we introduced a new approach called NONTAXFOLKS that starts by pre-processing tags aiming at getting a set of frequent tagsets corresponding to an agreed representation Then, they are used to retrieve related tags using external resources such as WordNet. Thanks to the particular structure of triadic concepts, it allows grouping semantically related tags by considering the semantic relatedness embodied in the different frequencies of co-occurences among users, resources and tags in the folksonomy. Thereafter we introduced an algorithm called NTREXTRACTION for extracting non-taxonomic relationships between pair of tags picked from the triadic concepts. In summary, our approach uses several well known techniques \(such as formal concept analysis or association rule discovering the social bookmaring environnement in order to propose a new way of extracting labeled non-taxonomic relationships between tags. Currently, we are investigating the following topic concerning the discovered predicates between two terms. Indeed, in order to avoid relationships redundancy and thus a redundancy in the builded ontology. One can try to classify them into prede?ned semantic classes, detect synonyms, inverses, etc. A standard classi?cation of verbs could be used for this purpose, adding additional information about the semantic content, e.g., senses, verb types, thematic roles, etc., of predicates relationships 378 REFERENCES 1] J. Pan, S. Taylor, and E. Thomas, Reducing ambiguity in tagging systems with folksonomy search expansion, in Proceedings of the 6th Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC2009 2] V. S. M. Kavalec, A. Maedche, Discovery of lexical entries for non-taxonomic relations in ontology learning, in Proceedings of the SOFSEM 2004, LNCS, vol. 2932, 2004, pp 249256 


3] L. Specia and E. Motta, Integrating folksonomies with the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 4th European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC 2007 Innsbruck, Austria, vol. 4519, June 2007, pp. 624639 4] P. Mika, Ontologies are us: A uni?ed model of social networks and semantics, in Proceedings of the 4th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC2005 3729, Galway, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 522536 5] P. Schmitz, Inducing ontology from ?ickr tags, in Proceedings of the Workshop on Collaborative Tagging \(WWW 2006 Edinburgh, Scotland, May 2006 6] M. Zhou, S. Bao, X. Wu, and Y. Yu, An unsupervised model for exploring hierarchical semantics from social annotations, in Proceedings of the 6th International Semantic Web Conference and 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference ISWC/ASWC2007 Korea, vol. 4825, November 2006, pp. 673686 7] C. Schmitz, A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, and G. Stumme, Mining association rules in folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 10th IFCS Conference \(IFCS 2006 2006, pp. 261270 8] A. Hotho, A. Maedche, S. Staab, and V. Zacharias, On knowledgeable unsupervised text mining, in Proceedings of Text Mining Workshop, Physica-Verlag, 2003, pp. 131152 9] A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme, Information retrieval in folksonomies: Search and ranking, in The Semantic Web: Research and Applications, vol. 4011 Springer, 2006, pp. 411426 10] F. Lehmann and R. Wille, A triadic approach to formal concept analysis, in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Conceptual Structures: Applications, Implementation and Theory. Springer-Verlag, 1995, pp. 3243 11] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G.Stumme Discovering shared conceptualizations in folksonomies Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, vol. 6, pp. 3853, 2008 12] A. Mathes, Folksonomies - cooperative classi?cation and communication through shared metadata, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Tech. Rep. LIS590CMC, December 2004 13] H. Lin, J. Davis, and Y. Zhou, An integrated approach 


to extracting ontological structures from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 6th European Semantic Web Conference ESWC 2009 vol. 5554, 2009, pp. 654668 14] M. Szomszor, H. Alani, K. OHara, and N. Shadbolt, Semantic modelling of user interests based on cross-folksonomy, in Proceedings of the 7th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC 2008 15] G.Begelman, P. Keller, and F.Smadja, Automated tag clustering: Improving search and exploration in the tag space, in Proceedings of the the Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop WWW 2006 16] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G. Stumme TRIAS - an algorithm for mining iceberg tri-lattices, in Procedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, \(ICDM 2006 2006, pp. 907911 17] C. Borgelt, Ef?cient implementation of APRIORI and ECLAT, in FIMI, COEUR Workshop Proceedings, COEURWS.org, vol. 126, 2003 18] J. Tang, H. Leung, Q. Luo, D. Chen, and J. Gong, Towards ontology learning from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 21st international jont conference on Arti?cal intelligence IJCAI 2009 20892094 19] L. Ding, T. Finin, A. Joshi, R. Pan, R. Cost, Y. Peng P. Reddivari, V. Doshi, and J. Sachs, Swoogle: A search and metadata engine for the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 652659 20] A. Hliaoutakis, G. Varelas, E. Voutsakis, E. Petrakis, and E. E Milios, Information retrieval by semantic similarity, International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems IJSWIS 21] G. Pirro, M. Ruffolo, and D. Talia, Secco: On building semantic links in peer to peer networks, Journal on Data Semantics XII, LNCS 5480, pp. 136, 2009 22] C. Meilicke, H. Stuckenschmidt, and A. Tamilin, Repairing ontology mappings, in Proceedings of the International Conference AAAI 2007, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 2007, pp. 14081413 23] S. Ravi and M. Rada, Unsupervised graph-based word sense 


disambiguation using measures of word semantic similarity in Proceedings of the International Conference ICSC 2007 Irvine, California, USA, 2007 24] H. G. A. Budanitsky, Semantic distance in wordnet: an experimental application oriented evaluation of ?ve measures in Proceedings of the International Conference NACCL 2001 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, 2007, pp. 2934 25] J. Jiang and D. Conrath, Semantic similarity based on corpus statistics and lexical taxonomy, in Proceedings of the International Conference ROCLING X, 1997 379 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


