An Architectural Framework for Web Information Retrieval based on Users Navigational Pattern   Rohit Agarwal Department of Computer Science G. L. A. I. T. M Mathura, India rohit.agwl@gmail.com  KarmVeer Arya Indian Institute of Information Technology & Management Gwalior, India kvarya@iiitm.ac.in  Shashi Shekhar Department of Computer Science G. L. A. I. T. M Mathura, India shashi.shekhar13@gmail.com     Abstract As the popularity of WWW explodes, a massive amount of data is gathered by Web servers in the form of Web access logs which are rich source of information for understanding the Web users surfing behavior. Web Usage Mining is an application of data mining algorithms to Web access logs to find trends and regularities in Web users traversal pattern. Web page prediction technique is an important research area in web technologies. Mining is useful for web path traversal pattern from web logs. Web traversal pattern mining discovers most of the users access patterns from web logs. This information can provide the routing suggestions for web users such that suitable actions can be adopted. However, the web data will grow speedily in the short time, and some of the web data may be out of date. The user behaviors may change when old web data in web logs is replaced by new data. Therefore, we must rediscover the user behavior from the updated web logs but, it is very time-consuming. In this work we present efficient 


algorithms for web page prediction from large web logs visited by a user. We assign a significant weight to each page based on time spent by user on each page and visiting frequency on each page Keywords- Weighted Association Rule, Web path traversal, Web usage mining I.  INTRODUCTION It is not overstated to say the World Wide Web is the most excited impacts to the human society in the last 15 years. Web service providers want to find the way to predict the users behaviors and personalize information to reduce the traffic load. Web Usage Mining [1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 12, 13] is the automatic discovery of user access patterns from Web servers Organizations collect large volumes of data in their daily operations, generated automatically by Web servers that are collected in Web access log files Web usage mining involves the automatic detection of user access patterns on one or more web servers. It is an application of data mining algorithms to web access logs to find the trends and regularities in web users navigation patterns There are many kinds of data that can be used in web mining and can be classified into following five types [7  Content of Web Page Intra-Page Structure of Web Page Inter-Page Structure of Web Page Usage Data User Profile Web mining can be divided into three research fields, i.e., web content mining, web structure mining, and web usage mining Web usage mining is the application of established data mining techniques to analyze Web site usage. That data will be useful for a user to predict which Web pages will be clicked based on previous behavior. In this paper we focus on weighted association-mining method, which has been successfully applied in the pages recommendation system that has not been explored in previous studies because Weighted Association Rule mining assigned the different weights to each web page and improves the Association Rule Mining ARM  Cai et al. [10] and Tao et al. [11] proposed the schemes to assign different weights to each web page to reflect their importance but both models assume a fixed weight assignment 


for each web page for all session in context of web usage mining and page recommendation systems a page might have different importance in different session In this paper, we propose a Page Weight-like algorithm for correct web page prediction. Some of the existing systems used for web traversal based on his or her navigational behavior on the web. The proposed system will use visiting frequency of a page, time spent on a page to assign a quantitative weight to each page for a user. The instinct of this approach is that the time spent on pages [4] and visiting frequency are biasing factors to show the interest on a page The other systems give user recommendations related to a navigation session or the user profile stored in the system Proposed system can improve the quality of web traversal system II. RELATED WORK Mobasher et al. [3] have presented WEBMINER, a new web mining techniques to find out useful information from Web server access logs. They offered transactions model for various web mining such as discovery of association rules and sequential pattern Spiliopoulou and Faulstich [14] determine fascinating 978-1-4244-6653-5/10/$26.00 2010 IEEE 2010 5th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems, ICIIS 2010, Jul 29 - Aug 01, 2010, India 195 web navigation patterns. In this approach, individual routing paths are collected into an aggregated tree formation Uninteresting patterns are pruned and only patterns having the desired characteristics are taken Chen et al. [15] projected two effective algorithms for determining web traversal paths. FS \(full-scan disagreement between traversal pattern and association rules and SS \(selective-scan passes. But either model does not reflect the semantic impact of different sequences except the statistical correlation of the sequences H. Yao et al. [16] proposed a foundational approach to mining item set utilities from databases. This approach allows user preferences of item set as subjective values. The objective value of an item is defined according to the information stored in a transaction i.e. the quantity of the item sold in the 


transaction From very large logs, Z. Chen et al. [17] proposed two effective algorithms for finding maximal forward references longest sequences of Web pages visited by a user without revisiting some previously visited page in the sequence, and their performance is relatively analyzed An efficient web traversal pattern mining algorithm based on suffix array given by T. Jing et al. [18]. Essentially, a Web access pattern is a sequential pattern in a large set of pieces of Web logs, which is pursued frequently by users. Although some attempts have been made to mine traversal patterns from Web log, most of the research efforts try to employ techniques of sequential pattern mining, which is based on generate-andtest paradigm, involving multi scan of the entire dataset. They present a novel approach based on suffix array for frequent reference path generation. This algorithm has lower time and space complexity compared with traditional approaches such as Apriori. This algorithm is incremental in nature, involving only one scan of the whole data set In [19] Yen et al. presented the modified  incremental data mining algorithm for discovering web traversal patterns when the user sequences are inserted into and deleted from original database. This algorithm uses lattice structure to keep the previous mining results such that just new candidate sequences need to be computed. Hence, the web traversal pattern can be obtained rapidly when the traversal sequence database is updated. But it is unsuccessful when web site structure is changed Zhou et al. [20] proposed high utility path traversal pattern mining, which introduces the concept of utility into path traversal pattern mining model. They explored a TwoPhase algorithm that can discover high utility traversal paths efficiently when was applied on a real-world Weblog database A utility-based algorithm for web path traversal was improved by C. F. Ahmed et al. [21]. They used a pattern growth sequential mining to prune a huge number of candidates. It effectively divides the search space by small projected databases recursively using the divide and conquers technique. Therefore, it saves several scanning of the whole database which is required by the exiting algorithm All existing models recommend Web Path Traversal, but 


no specific mechanism is developed to identify the specific user and further recommending the Web Path based on different users who have visited previously. The identified limitations of such systems are as follows User identification based on IP Address Recognition of Web Path Traversal based on user  III. PRELIMINARIES The mathematical background required to develop and evaluate the performance of proposed approach is explained in the following section. Here we will discuss some preliminaries such as Page Ranking and Weighted Association Rule A. Page Ranking Page Rank [22] is a probability distribution used to represent the likelihood that a person randomly clicking on links will arrive at any particular page. Page Rank can be calculated for collections of documents of any size. A PageRank of 0.5 means there are 50% chances that a person clicking on a random link will be directed to the document. Assume a web site of four pages: u1, u2, u3, u4. The initial approximation of PageRank would be evenly divided between these four pages so each document would begin with an estimated PageRank of 0.25 If pages u2, u3, and u4 each only links to u1, they would each confer 0.25 PageRank to u1 \(PR\(u1 1  PR\(u1 u2 u3 u4 1  Again, suppose page u2 also has a link to page u3, and page u4 has links to all three pages. The value of the link-votes is divided among all the outbound links on a page. Thus, page u gives a vote worth 0.125 to page u1 and a vote worth 0.125 to page u3. Only one third of u4s PageRank is counted for u1s PageRank. In other words, the PageRank conferred by an outbound link L score divided by the normalized number of outbound links In the general, the PageRank value for any page u can be expressed by \(2  PR?u? = ? PR?v?L?v  B 


2  Where Bu is the set of all pages linking to page u and L\(v is number  of links from page v The PageRank theory holds that even an imaginary surfer who is randomly clicking on links will eventually stop clicking. The probability, at any step, that the person will continue is a damping factor d and it is generally assumed that the value of damping factor will be set around 0.85 [8]. When calculating PageRank, pages with no outbound links are 2010 5th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems, ICIIS 2010, Jul 29 - Aug 01, 2010, India 196 assumed to link out to all other pages in the collection. Their PageRank scores are therefore, divided evenly among all other pages. then page rank is defined  in \(3  PR\(pi 1- d  PR L????  \(3  where p1, p2pN are the pages and  M\(pi that link to pi, L\(pj pj, and N is the total number of pages B. Weighted Association Rule Weighted association rule is useful in some sense. For example, the product, which has higher revenue margin should be paid more attention. Weighted Association Rule WAR different items, and is a possible approach to improving the ARM model in the web personalization process Greater weights are given to more important items, when discover important but less frequent items. However, existing models assume a fixed weight for each item, while in the context of web usage mining a page might have different importance in different sessions Given the transformation of user transactions into m dimensional space as vectors of weights of web pages, t=< \(p1 w1 p2 ,w2 pm ,wm page pi is a non-negative real number to reflect the importance of page pi. Item weight is a value attached to an item \(page 


representing its significance. In this paper weight of page pi is denoted as w\(pi  IV. THE  PROPOSED APPROACH In the proposed approach, weight system exist in the server side and all the information that are required to calculate the weight of a web page can be derivative from websites Web logs. We presume that web logs are preprocessed and users session is identified. Since this recommendation system is based on user navigation behavior so that the weight for each web page could be calculated based on users previous visit to that page. When a user comes, the system will first retrieve the users interest from the database If the user is new, the system will give a registration option for the registration for that site. If the user is new, the system will give an option for the registration for that web site. After the registration whenever user visits first time there will be no option for recommendation path traversal. The user can visit on any page just by clicking on link found on that page and the system will calculate the weight for each page based on users navigation behavior. Now according to weight association rule greater weight indicates the more interest on that page. The proposed system will recommend web path traversal for that web site based on weight associated with each web page Let U= {u1, u2 un} denote the set of web pages accessed by a user and each of them is distinctively recognized by its related URL. The weight can be calculated in number of ways The primary sources of data are server access logs The proposed approach consists of two algorithms designed for finding Web path Traversal of Web pages visited by a user  A. FREQUENY BASED PAGE WIGHT ALGORITHM The Frequency Based Page Weight \(FPW called FPW, is based on Visiting Frequency of a Web page The Visiting Frequency of a page u is the number of times that a page visited after page v. There is an important feature that can never be neglected is to calculate the Visiting Frequency of a web page is the PageRank of that page. It is obvious that a page with large in-degree has more probability to be visited than a page with small one. The frequency weight \(FW defined in \(4 


 FW \(u u 4  Where PR represents the page rank of a particular page and calculated with the help of \(3 4 for the calculation of weight of each web page and that weight of a page will be equal to the frequency weight given in \(5  W\(u u 5  The algorithm FPW is described as follows                B. FREQUENY AND TIME SPENT BASED PAGE WIGHT ALGORITHM The Frequency and Time Spent based Page Weight algorithm \(FTPW Time Spent on a Web page Time spent on a page replicates the relative consequence of each page, because a user generally spend more time on a useful page and quickly skip to other page. The transfer rate and web page size are two important factors used to calculate the real time spent on a page. If we assume a steady transfer rate of acquiring information from pages for a user, the time Algorithm: FPW Input: Web traversal path database Output: Weight for each page 1 Calculate PageRank for each page \(PRi 3 2 Initially Set W\(Pi 


3 Check the user is registered or not, if YES then 4       whether the user is first time visitor, if YES then 5  return W\(Pi 6    else 7      calculate FW\(Pi 4 8 SET   W\(Pi Pi 9 return W\(Pi 2010 5th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems, ICIIS 2010, Jul 29 - Aug 01, 2010, India 197 spent on a page is inversely proportional to the degree of information useful to user. The formula to calculate the weight based on time spent on each page is given in \(6  TW?u? = T??? ????? ?? ? ???????/P??? S??? ????????U?T??? ????? ?? ? ???????/P S??? ????                  \(6  The Frequency and Time spent based page Weight FTPW spent on a particular page, as biasing factors. Frequency and Time spent based page Weight can be calculated by the formula given in \(7  W\(u u u 7  Where FW\(u which can be computed from \(4 u page based on time spent on a page which can be computed from equation \(6 u based on frequency and time spent both The Pseudo code of FPW algorithm given as follows            


   V. PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS The performance of the proposed approach in terms of various parameters is discussed in this section A.  Data Set We have evaluated the performance of proposed algorithms by using the synthetic data set for different users to calculate the weight of each web page. Consider the structure of a web site consisting of four web pages namely A, B, C and D and their respective interconnection shown by direct edges as shown below in Figure 1       Figure 1: Web Site Structure The following factors are considered for performance evaluation Outbound links which shows the out degree of nodes for the graph of Figure1 Page Rank \(PR which can be calculated on the basis of the equation \(3 Number of visit shows the visiting frequency of each web page by user, it can be decided on the basis data received from web log Page Size defines the size of page on the basis of information content of the web page, which can be measured in bytes Time spent describes the resumption of a particular web page by user in seconds  The above parameters used in proposed experimental set up for the Web Path Traversal, by considering the graph mentioned in Figure1 B. Evaluation Method The attributes considering for the training data set for each user of a web site is represented in terms of time spent on each page and frequency. From these data sets we are 


calculating the weight for each web page for respective web site. The proposed approach uses Visiting Frequency and Time Spent on a Web page as two parameters to measure the weight of each web page To estimate the performance of the proposed two algorithms i.e. FPW and FTPW, discussed in section IV based on the above parameters involved in estimation C. Experimental Results The performance of the proposed approach can be evaluated by comparing the performance of FPW and FTPW algorithms which differ in number of parameters considered for experimentation. The comparison is made by taking the attribute like Visiting Frequency in FPW, and further Visiting Frequency and Time spent on a web page are clubbed together in FTPW as another attribute. The experimental setup uses five users and weights are plotted against various parameters Figure 2 shows the plot of Visiting Frequency v/s Weight of a web page              Figure 2: Plot between frequency and weight Algorithm: FTPW Input: Web traversal path database Output: Weight for each page 1 Calculate PageRank for each page \(PRi 3 2 Initially Set W\(Pi 3 Check the user is registered or not, if YES then 4       whether the user is first time visitor, if YES then 5  return W\(Pi 6    else 7      calculate FW\(Pi 4 


8            calculate TW\(Pi 6 9   SET   W\(Pi Pi Pi 10   return W\(Pi A C B    D 0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0 5 10 15 20 w ei gh t Visiting Frequency User1 User2 User3 user4 User5 2010 5th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems, ICIIS 2010, Jul 29 - Aug 01, 2010, India 198  Using the weights calculated in Figure the higher weight for more frequently visited information in FPW algorithm the different the scenario described in Figure 1 for all th plotted in Figure 3            


   Figure 3: Recommendation for Web Path Trave Algorithm  The weight assigned to various pages Visiting Frequency and Time spent on web Figure 4                  Figure 4: Plot between \(frequency + time sp  The Figure 5 gives the details of recomm Traversal for different users by FTPW a weights calculated by considering two para and time spent in Figure 4 which indicates for more frequently visited pages and in term on web pages  0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 


0.14 0.16 0.18 W ei gh t Web Pages Us Us Us Us Us 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 W ei gh t FTPW \(Frequecy  and 2 which indicate pages. Using this traversal paths in e users have been rsal based on FPW by combining the page is plotted in ent ended Web Path lgorithm and use meters frequency the higher weight s more time spent    


         Figure 5: Recommendation W Algo Figure 6 shows the relative on the synthetic data sets, in w more efficient than FPW algor performance of proposed a increase the complexity of alg and provide better Web Path Tr    Figure 6: Relative Access  The proposed FTPW algorithm parameters which otherwise ar FPW algorithm. A matrix dep comparison between above two parameters are performance ce show that the performance o increase the number of param FPW algorithm to FTPW algori The experimental results d better and provides a methodo optimized Web path traversal past navigation behavior by c page 0 1 2 3 4 5 1 2A 


cc es si bi lit y Ti m e fo r M or e re qu ir ed In fo rm at io n er1\(A->C->D->B er2\(D->B->A->C er3\(D->B->C->A er4\(C->B->A->D er5\(B->A->D->C Time User1 User2 User3 User4 User5 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 


W ei gh t Web Pages eb Path Traversal based on FTPW rithm  execution for FPW and FTPW hich we can see that FTPW is ithm. Hence, it is clear that the lgorithm increases when we orithm in terms of parameters aversal in less time  ibility time for FPW and FTPW consists of clubbing of various e not available in first proposed icted in the Figure 7 describes proposed algorithms. Here the ntric and a comparison results f the system improves as we eters i.e. when we move from thm rawn for FTPW algorithms are logy for effective, efficient and for various users based on their omputing weight for each web 3 4 5 User FTPW FPW User1\(C->B->A->D User2\(A->B->C->D User3\(B->C->A->D User4\(D->A->C->B User5\(B->D->A->C 2010 5th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems, ICIIS 2010, Jul 29 - Aug 01, 2010, India 199 Figure 6: Comparison Matrix VI.  CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK 


 Web Usage Mining have been used in improving Web site design and marketing decision support, user profiling, and Web server system performance. Web page prediction technique is a very important role in web technologies. This paper proposes efficient algorithms for web path recommendation based on Weighted Association Rule. Two factors frequency and time spent were used to decide the web path traversal. The experimental results show that in the proposed approach when we increase the number of parameters for finding the web path the accuracy of the system is enhanced drastically and FTPW produces more accurate results than those achieved by FPW In the future, we shall improve the Web Path Traversal by considering the parameter Data Transfer Rate to provide the accurate Web Path traversal REFERENCES 1] M. S. Chen, X. M. Huang and I. Y. Lin, Capturing User Access Patterns in the Web for Data Mining, Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence, pp. 345348, 1999 2]  R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava, Web Mining: Information and Pattern Discovery on the World Wide Web, Proceedings of the 9th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence, pp 558-567, 1997 3]  B. Mobasher,N. Jain,E. Han et al, Web mining: pattern discovery from World Wide Web transactions, Tech Rep: TR96-050, 1996 4]  C. Shahabi, A. Zarkesh, J. Abidi, V. Shah, Knowledge discovery from user's Web-page navigation,  in Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering, 1997 5]  Yue-Shi Lee, Show-Jane Yen, Ghi-Hua Tu and Min-Chi Hsieh, Web Usage Mining: Integrating Path Traversal Patterns and Association Rules, Proceedings of International Conference on Informatics Cybernetics, and Systems \(ICICS'2003 6]  Yue-Shi Lee, Show-Jane Yen, Ghi-Hua Tu and Min-Chi Hsieh, Mining Traveling and Purchasing Behaviors of Customers in Electronic Commerce Environment, Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on e-Technology, e-Commerce and e-Service \(EEE'2004 pp. 227-230, 2004 7]  J. Srivastava, et al. Web Usage Mining: Discovery and Applications of Usage Patterns from Web Data. SIGKDD Explorations, pp. 12-23 2000 


8]  Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page. The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual Web search engine. Proceedings of the seventh international conference on World Wide Web 7: pp. 107-117, 1998 9]  J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl and H.Zhu, Mining Access Patterns Efficiently from Web Logs, Proceedings of the Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 396-407 2000 10]  C. H. Cai, A. W. C. Fu, C.H. Cheng and W. W. Kwong, Mining Association Rules with Weighted Items, In Database Engineering and Applications Symposium, Proceedings IDEAS'98, pp. 68  77, 1998 11]  F. Tao, F. Murtagh and M. Farid, Weighted Association Rule Mining using Weighted Support and Significance Framework, In Proceedings of the 9th SIGKDD conference, 2003 12]  Show-Jane Yen, An Efficient Approach for Analyzing User Behaviors in a Web-Based Training Environment, International Journal of Distance Education Technologies, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp.55-71, 2003 13]  Show-Jane Yen, Yue-Shi Lee and Chung-Wen Cho, Efficient Approach for the Maintenance of Path Traversal Patterns, In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on e-Technology, eCommerce and e-Service \(EEE 14]  M. Spiliopoulou and L. C. Faulstich, Wum: A web utilization miner EDBT Workshop WebDB98, Springer Verlag, 1996 15]  M. S. Chen, J. S. Park and P. S. Yu, Efficient data mining for path traversal patterns,  IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, pp. 209-221, 1998 16]  H. Yao,H. J. Hamilton, and C. J. Butz, A Foundational Approach to Mining Itemset Utilities from Databases, Proceedings of the 4th SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, Florida, USA, 2004 17]  Z. Chen, R. H. Fowler and A. Wai-Chee Fu, Linear Time Algorithm for Finding Maximal Forward References, Proceedings of International Conference on Information Technology. Computers and Communications  \(ITCC'2003 18]  T. Jing, Wan-Li Zou and Bang-Zuo Zhang, An Efficient Web Traversal Pattern Mining algorithm Based On Suffix Array, Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics , pp 1535-1539, 2004 19]  Show-Jane Yen, Yue-Shi Lee and Min-Chi Hsieh, An efficient incremental algorithm for mining Web traversal patterns, Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering ICEBE05 20]  L. Zhou, Y. Liu, J. Wang and Y. Shi, Utility-based Web Path  Traversal Pattern Mining, Seventh  IEEE International Conference on Data 


Mining Workshops, pp. 373-378, 2007 21]  C. F. Ahmed, S. K. Tanbeer, Byeong-Soo Jeong and Young-Koo Lee Efficient mining of utility-based web path traversal patterns, 11th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology ICACT09 22]   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank 23] en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Association_rule_mining  Attributes? FPW Algorithm FTPW Algorithm Recognition of User behavior Visiting Frequency Page Rank Time Spent on Web page Page Size Accessibility of required information in less time Improving Web navigation and system design of Web applications  Enhancing server performance 2010 5th International Conference on Industrial and Information Systems, ICIIS 2010, Jul 29 - Aug 01, 2010, India 200 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


