 A study on Intrusion Detect ion Based on Data Mining Song Naiping , Zhou Genyuan Jiangsu Teachers University of Technology School of Computer Engineering  ChangZhou ,China 213000 snpspj@jstu.edu.cn   AbstractThis paper, in view of the problems in traditional intrusion detection systems, proposes data mining techniques be applied to intrusion detection system. The commonly used data mining algorithms are discussed; then 
a data mining-based intrusion detection system model is constructed, the architecture and main functions of which are described as well Keywords- intrusion detection; data mining; model   I  I NTRODUCTION  With the rapid development of Internet, the network has become an indispensable source of information People rely heavily on computer and network systems which makes it necessary to ensure the safety of computer 
and network systems. Intrusion Detection System \(IDS essential to secure network environment, has been paid more and more attention to and has developed a lot However, the IDS model adopting the traditional intrusion detection technology is quite limited in validity self-adaptability, and scalability[1  A r e se ar ch f o cu s t o  resolve this issue is to introduce the data mining technology excelling in information into the IDS, which makes the IDS automatically produce accurate detection 
model from a large number of audit data II  I NTRUSION D ETECTION T ECHNOLOGY  Intrusion Detection \(ID\ is the detection and identification of malicious attacks on computer systems and network systems, or other information systems in broader sense, which collects and analyzes data from a computer system or network environment, finding suspicious attacking behavior or unusual events, and takes certain measures to prevent attacks to reduce potential 
losses. A combination of soft wares and hard wares for intrusion detection is called an intrusion detection system IDS\. Its difference from other security products is that it needs more intelligence, for it must be able to get the data analyzed, and from which obtain useful results. Therefore a qualified intrusion detection system can greatly simplify the administrator's work to ensure the secure operation of network A  Classification of Intrusion Detection System In the network environment, there are three main types 
of intrusion detection systems— host-based intrusion detection systems, network-based intrusion detection systems and distributed intrusion detection system According to their adoption of different technology intrusion detection systems can be divided into two categories: anomaly detection and signature-based detection 1 002 Anomaly detection: Anomaly detection, also called activity-based detection, refers to monitoring intrusion based on the deviation of the user's activity or of the use of 
resources from the normal conditions instead of the appearance of specific acts. When the system is in operation, the anomaly detection program produces the current active contour, compares it with the original contour, and updates the original one at the same time When an obvious deviation occurs, it is considered to be an intrusion. Behavior-based detection is independent of the system, thus it can be used generally. It may even be able to detect attacking methods that have never appeared 
before. Yet it is impossible to describe comprehensively every user’s behavior within the system, so its main drawback is the high rate of false negative. On the other hand, the statistical summary tables need to be updated constantly. If the intruders know that a system is under monitor of the intrusion detection system, they deliberately train the detection systems for some time, so 
2010 International Conference of Information Science and Management Engineering 978-0-7695-4132-7/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ISME.2010.47 135 


 that after a period of time, the initially considered anomaly behavior can be regarded as normal 2 002 Signature-based detection: In the detection intrusion process model and the traces it left in the observed system are the basis for decision making therefore, we can define certain malicious signature activities in advance based on rules of thumb or expert knowledge, and then compare them with the observed events so as to judge whether the system has performed such malicious activities. Signature-based detection grounds on the known system defects and intrusion modes. It can accurately detect certain attacks, but with its over-reliance on pre-defined security policy, the system can not detect unknown attacks, thus causing false dismissal B  Intrusion Detection System Model Intrusion detection model is a set of mechanism to describe the behavior of network users as normal or intrusion, including the model library, rule set, decision tree, the system state, the statistical profile, and so on. One of the research priorities of ID is how to build intrusion detection models, to generate from massive audit data normal activity profile that can most effectively distinguish normal activities from anomaly ones, or to extract effectively from them the mode of intrusion[4   The basic principle of intrusion detection is illustrated in Figure 1               C  Problems of the Current Intrusion Detection System  The limitations of the current intrusion detection methods mainly lie in the lack of effectiveness adaptability and scalability. The existing rule base and knowledge base, together with the statistical methods are hand-coding based on expert knowledge. When facing the complicated network environment, expert knowledge is often incomplete and inaccurate. Experts often only focus on analysis of known attack methods, for unknown ones, it takes time to study. Expert rules and statistical methods are usually set for a specific network environment therefore, it is difficult to re-use the IDS in new network environment In view of the deficiencies of current Intrusion Detection System, this paper applies data mining techniques to intrusion detection systems, making a data-mining-based intrusion detection system model  III  D ATA M INING T ECHNIQUES  A  The Definition of Data Mining  Data Mining \(DM\ is a process in which some hidden predictive information and knowledge are extracted from massive incomplete, noisy, and vague data at random With the rapid development of information technology there is a dramatic increase in the amount of data people accumulate, often estimated with TB. There becomes an urgent need to find ways to help people extract useful rule extracting  History activity  clock main rule set processing engine  anomaly record study  activities rule design and revision audit new activity renewa buildin Figure 1 Common Intrusion Detection Model 
136 


 knowledge from a sea of data. Data Mining is a data-processing technology developed in compliance with this need. It is a key step in knowledge discovery B  Data Mining Algorithms There are many methods to analyze data mining. The ones commonly used in current intrusion detection systems are: association algorithm, sequence analysis algorithm and classification algorithm 1\ Association algorithm Association rule mining is a technique to analyze the correlations hidden between data. Through mining the association rules between the data sources, the correlations between different attributes of the same record can be found, and dependencies between various attributes that satisfy a certain degree of support and confidence value can be drawn. In the network security systems, correlation analysis can be used to identify the relation between all sorts of intrusive activities of the intruder[6   Association rules can be described as: Let R = \(I1, I2 I3, ... ..., Im\e a set of collection of data items, and W be a group of transaction sets. Each transaction T in W is a set of data items, and it satisfies R T 002 Suppose there is a set of data items X, a transaction T, when T X 002 we say transaction T supports data items set X The association rules to be mined refer to a kind of data implicit rules as follows X 001\027 Y, in which X, Y are two sets of data items 003  004 005 005 Y X T Y T X    the support value and credibility that are used to describe association rules can be defined as 002      sup Y X P Y X port 006  007       X Y P Y X confidence  007  Support value is a measurement of the importance of association rules, for rules of very low support value may only appear occasionally. It also has the nature of expectation and can be used for the effective discovery of association rules. Confidence value is a measurement of the accuracy of the rules. For a given rule X 001\027 Y, the higher the confidence value, the more likely will Y appear in the affairs containing X. Confidence value also provides Y estimation of probability given X The purpose of association analysis is to find the association rules between sets of data items from a known set of transaction W to ensure the degree of their support and confidence greater than the minimum support and the minimum confidence level pre-specified by the user which is also called the support threshold and confidence threshold 2\ Sequence analysis algorithm Association analysis is used to analyze the horizontal correlation between various data in the data mining record while sequence analysis is to find the vertical correlation between different data records. In constructing the intrusion detection model, it is very important to take into account frequent sequential patterns between events, for the series of events generated by the intrusion sometimes are consistent with the normal mode examined individually, and only through the analysis of the relationship between a series of incidents can we determine whether there is invasion. Therefore, the discovery of frequent sequences allows us to know more signatures of the relative system behaviors or user activities The goal of sequence analysis is to mine the sequential pattern from the transaction database—the frequent sequences which satisfy the user-specified minimum support requirements, and the sequential pattern must be the highest sequence 3\ Classification algorithm The purpose of data classification is to extract the signatures of data items in the database to generate classification model, which can map a data item in the database into one of several predefined classes. In intrusion detection, we can classify the intrusions with a variety of criteria into different groups, according to which to analyze past hacking intrusions, and give a description of each group according to the criteria of classification IV  D ATA M INING B ASED I NTRUSION D ETECTION S YSTEM  Data mining based intrusion detection system is a detection system established by applying data mining techniques to intrusion detection system[7  I t s sy stem  structure is indicated as in Figure 2 
137 


              The entire system structure consists of network data acquisition, data pre-processing, test analysis, data mining and rule base. The experimental procedure is as follows 1 There are too many complicated data on net. It is not suitable to match them with the rules directly. The data should be preprocessed to be formatted to meet the system requirements 2 Using data mining algorithms to analyze the pre-processed network data, extracting from which the rules of invasion to establish the network intrusion patterns. According to the characteristics of network data the Apriori algorithm is improved to be Apriori algorithm, which is used to mine intrusion rules 3 Through the data detection analysis module, the pre-processed data can be matched with the rules in the rule base to determine whether there is an intrusion. Once the intrusion is detected, the report can be sent to the Response Center, which will decide how to respond to the invasion V  C ONCLUSION  This paper, based on data mining and intrusion detection, proposes a data-mining based intrusion detection framework, which is the key point of the study Of course, it needs further study to improve Apriori algorithm to achieve intelligent intrusion detection     R EFERENCES  1 Li X i nY ua n, W u  Y uhong  D i W e ny ua n B u i l d i ng  Intrusion Detection Model Based on Data Mining   Computer Engineering, pp.2002,pp.28-50 2 W a ng Ji e, Li D o ngm e i  A p pl i c a t i o n  o f D a t a  M i ni ng i n  Network Intrusion Detection System  Micro-computer Information, 2006 the first 4-3 Issue pp. 73-75 3 u  J i ng, Li u Bao xu, X u Ro ngshe ng. D e si gn a nd Implementation of Data Mining-based IDS  Computer Engineering. 2002 ,pp 81-84 4 n g De g a n g  A R e se ar ch i n to Ap p l i c a t io n  o f Da ta Mining Technology in Intrusion Detection[J J o u r na l  of Chongqing Normal University \(Natural Science Edition\ 2004  5 W e nke Le e, Sal v a t or e J S t o l f o K u i  W Mo k  A D a t a  Mining Framework for Building Intrusion Detection Models [C  In Pr oc ee di n g s  of  t h e 19 9 9 IE EE  Symposium on, 1999, pp.120 - 132 6 S a n d e e p Ku m a r C l as s i f i cati o n an d d e te cti o n of  computer intrusion [D P h D d i ss er tat i o n  P u r d u e  University, West Lafoayette, USA 7 T La n e C E Brod l e y   T e m p ora l seq u e n ce l ear ni ng a n d data reduction for anomaly detection [J A C M Transactions on Information and System Security 1999 ,pp. 295 ~ 331   network data acquisition  data pre-processing  test analysis  rule base data mining  Figure 2 Architecture of Data Mining Based on Intrusion Detection System  response center  
138 


interaction of the users with the objects. This customization is supported by a set of resources D = {d1, d2, , dn} which characterize the way or media used to carry out the interaction user-context and how that communication will be performed Figure 2. Elements of a interaction context 10 As can be seen in Fig. 2, each object has associated a set of services that can be offered to the user. Those services can be associated to the actions that would happen when the user touches the Tag, matching the expectations. Whether one service or other is executed is defined by the rules defined for determine the interaction model with the user and therefore, as per the user characteristic and interaction preferences Different types of services can be defined: a use of URIs \(Uniform Resource Identifier performing actions such as sending a mail \(mailto phone call \(tel http sms starting an application, etc., b installed in the mobile device, and c lies on the Back-end system The interaction with the objects is defined by the resources created to that purpose. The resources allow the customization of the NFC device so the interaction is carried out in the best and most intuitive way and as per the preferences defined; i.e through a resource a device can be ordered to vibrate, or to play a sound, voice or image in order to start the associated operative Figure 3. Services hierarchical structure Obviously, the use of the resources associated to the objects is limited to the characteristics of the own device that is part of the interaction. The resources can be assigned to the Tags and to the different services defined for the Tags. A resource associated to the Tag is executed in the moment that the user interacts with the Tag \(touches it to the services are executed during the service operation and ends up in any of the following situations: a finishes, b with the user finishes As can be seen in Fig. 3, those services are defined within a priority structure defined by the level of service definition in the hierarchical structure. The first service that is going to be executed is the Service 1 


For that, the service will check based on its properties, rules and preferences defined and the resources needed whether it can or should instantiate it. If the execution is properly done, it will continue executing the services of the same level of the tree. It a service cannot be executed or an error occurred, the execution will go down a level in the structure, in order to process the subordinated services \(Service 2.1, Service 2.2 etc subordinated, the next service level to be executed will be the corresponding to the directly upper level, that is, Service 3 III. NFC SCENARIOS CREATOR With the purpose of testing the functionality and utility of the interaction model described, a tool named NFC Scenarios Creator \(NFCSC developed in Java for the scenario definition under the model described and that integrates the use of them to be understood by a MIDlet that will be executed in a NFC device NFCSC allows, therefore, the definition of the scenario rules and user interaction preferences; it also has the capability both of recording the Tags associated to the objects in the scenario as of generating the contents needed for a proper performance of the MIDlet Although NFCSC is still in development stage, the system allows to establish the hierarchy of functionalities associated to each object and to define restrictions and preferences NFCSC \(Fig. 4 scenarios or projects. For each project a set of identifying attributes are defined, as well as the objects that compose the scenario, the services associated to the objects, the general and user interactions preferences and the resources used on it Each scenario is described by a XML document, as shown in the DTD file from Chart I  CHART I. DTD FOR THE SCENARIO DEFINITION xml version=1.0 encoding=UTF-8 ELEMENT XMLProject \(XMLDescription, XMLPath XMLResource*, XMLTag ATTLIST XMLProject ID CDATA #REQUIRED name CDATA #REQUIRED ELEMENT XMLTag \(XMLDescription, XMLResource XMLService 


ATTLIST XMLTag ID CDATA #REQUIRED IDScenario CDATA #REQUIRED name CDATA #REQUIRED ELEMENT XMLService \(XMLUri?, XMLMethod?, XMLOS XMLResource*, XMLService ATTLIST XMLService ID CDATA #REQUIRED activated \(on|off execution \(manual|automatic iterative \(on|off ELEMENT XMLResource \(XMLContent?, XMLPath ATTLIST XMLResource type CDATA #REQUIRED state \(on|off ELEMENT XMLUri \(XMLContent ATTLIST XMLUri type CDATA #REQUIRED ELEMENT XMLPath \(#PCDATA ELEMENT XMLDescription \(#PCDATA ELEMENT XMLContent \(#PCDATA  11 In order to make the devices that interact with the user able to answer properly to the different scenarios, the MIDlet installed must have initial knowledge of its definition. So when an object is detected the services to be offered can be defined and also the way to execute them. Herewith, together with the installation or deployment of an application, the initial XML file of the project is also stored in the device being the processing of that file by the MIDlet the one that really defines the interaction The user can modify the XML file making use of the MIDlet, adjusting the parameters that define the interaction model \(properties and resources a user that in the scenario definition decided that when touching a certain object an action started automatically, could modify that decision converting it to manual afterwards, or activate/deactivate the vibration when touching a Tag, simply by changing the values of the corresponding properties in the XML file As can be seen in Chart I, each project is defined by a 


unique name and identifier, a description, and a set of Tags assigned which characterize the scenario together with a set of resources. The Tag identifier includes the scenario identifier which allows the MIDlet of the device to reach the XML document that has to been used in order to guide the interaction For each Tag one or several services could be defined and one or several resources could be associated to them. The services could be defined in a recursively way, which allows specifying the execution hierarchy aforementioned. For each service a set of attributes is defined, those attributes define their activation and execution mode The resources used in the interaction should also be stored in the device, so, together with the definition and, pending of the type it is possible to: define its content \(XMLContent specify the path where it is stored in the device \(SMLPath Figure 4. NFC Scenario Creator main interface As can be seen in Fig. 4, the NFCSC interface is divided in some sections. The left sidebar presents the different projects scenarios of the projects represented as the root of the tree, while the Tags assigned to each scenario are added as if they were their leaves. The system allows to edit the information of the elements from each scenario, both the Tags and the own project Pending of which element is selected among the project tree, the content of the central panel would be different. For each project the system allows to introduce a general description, as well as to assign the general resources used If a Tag is chosen, the possibilities offered by the system change, allowing: a management, c associated to the services, and d among the execution hierarchy established NFCSC has an event viewer \(frame placed under the main pane the system during the interaction with the user. Each entry in the event viewer is composed by the time when that event happened and a description that allow the user to know the action that has been performed. Thanks to this log the edition or step back in the scenario building is easier IV. AN EASY EXAMPLE. EMERGENCIES AND ASSISTANCE 


SYSTEM With the aim of showing the characteristics of the proposed model and the tool built, its application to a very simple example will be described with the purpose of not including an extension and complexity not needed  Figure 5. Emergencies and assistance example The basic idea of this scenario is that any user in urgency could ask for help in an easy, quick and intuitive way, just by touching with their NFC device an image with a Tag associated. Chart II shows a fragment with the definition of the scenario described As shown in Fig. 5, the scenario is formed by a frame where, in order to represent the emergency, a picture of an ambulance has been placed. Behind the ambulance there is a Tag. Where the device is got close to the Tag placed in the frame: a the MIDlet retrieves and decode the content in order to identify the scenario, c XML file and its resources, d corresponding action and services and, e ends up the application The full definition of the XML file that specifies the interaction in this simple example contains two services: a phone call to the emergencies number, and b message to two relatives, both making use of multiple device 12 resources. However, and for keeping it short, Chart II only shows a partial view of the example, showing only the definition of the general properties of the Tag as well as the first two services and some examples of resource use As shown in Chart II, the Tag has defined the use of two resources. First one is associated to the vibration of the device while the second is about an information text that will be displayed to the user when starting the interaction CHART II. SCENARIO INTERACTION DEFINITION. XML FILE  XMLTag ID="T1245132"IDScenario="S4514152 name="Ambulance Picture XMLDescripcion>This is the tag that will be associated to the ambulance picture XMLDescripcion 


XMLResource type="vibration" state="on XMLResource XMLResource type="InfoText" state="on XMLContent>S.O.S. Emergency application XMLContent XMLResource XMLService ID="S3292378" activated="on execution="automatic iterative="off XMLUri type="tel XMLContent>112</XMLContent XMLUri XMLResource type="Audio" state="on XMLPath>E:/scenarios.midlet/S4514152 T1245132/sound/HelpCall.wav XMLPath XMLResource XMLService XMLService ID="S3292379" activated="on execution="automatic iterative="off XMLUri type="sms XMLContent>+34667406220 </XMLContent XMLUri XMLResource type="Image" state="on XMLPath>E:/scenarios.midlet/S4514152 T1245132/pictures/ambulancia.gif</X MLPath XMLResource XMLService XMLTag   The definition of the first service is characterized by a set of parameters as its identifier, whether the execution would be manual or interactive and an URI that defines the action to be performed. In this case is a tel URI. This service makes use of an audio resource whose content it stored on the device storage. In future versions it will be implemented with a voice synthesizer Notice how the following service definition, corresponding to sending a sms, is indented from the previous one. This 


means that the service is in the same branch, but at a lower level in the hierarchy of services execution. Therefore, this service will only be conducted if an error has occurred in the execution of the previous one. As shown in chart II the latter service uses an image resource in charge of showing some information at the MIDlet display and whose content is also stored on the device Besides, the MIDlet allows in a simple way to modify all those parameters that define the execution of the services and their use. As commented before, a user could not want that a service is executed automatically and requires manual confirmation. For that, he/she only would need to change the value of the execution parameter of the service into manual. In the same way, the user can activate or deactivate the use of resources just by modifying the value of the state attribute into off. Even more, it is possible to add new resources, if, together with their definition some content needed for their execution is included Therefore, it can be checked as, even when the user define an initial interaction for a scenario and even when the same deployment is done in different devices, each user could easily adapt and customize the interaction to its needs and preferences afterwards Equally, the user could activate or deactivate a service changing the execution order and modifying the hierarchy initially defined for them. Herewith, the same scenario could be customized and act in a different way depending of the person that interacts with it V. DISCUSSION IoT is not a reality yet, but a prospective view of a series of technologies that, combined, could sharply modify the interaction mode with our environment and the working of our society in the following years. In order to establish the IoT philosophy, it would be needed an advance of the development and dissemination of elements as sensors, new communication technologies \(as well as their intercommunication mobile devices able to integrate them, a proper infrastructure and above all software applications that supports them and are able to integrate all those elements, as well as to fulfills the needs and requirements of the users Those new systems must also be adapted to the different interaction scenarios and, mainly, to the different 


characteristics, requirements, preferences and needs of the people that interact with the environment. In this paper we present a model that provides a solution to this issue The model is based in augment different objects among a scenario with Tags, by the assignment of services and resources defined in an abstracted hierarchy that allows configuring a customized interaction model. Thus, for the same scenario, the model is able to define different interaction contexts. So, a context is defined as the aggregation of: a certain scenario formed by a set of intelligent objects offering a set of services, b characteristics, preferences and needs, c and d Under the proposed model a tool that allows the definition and scenario deployment has been built. A neuter MIDlet installed in the NFC device is the one in charge of guiding the 13 interaction through the definition of the scenarios stored in a XML file. This architecture allows that the same MIDlet could be used with any scenario and that the user could adapt the interaction to his preferences Currently we are working in the completeness of the model and the complex interaction scenarios generalization, being the latter based in rules systems that allows adapting the different interaction contexts to the users ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Innovation of Spain \(MICINN Project TIN2009-07184 REFERENCES 1] M. Weiser. The Computer for the Twenty-First Century. Scientific American, 1991, pp. 91-104 2] G. Broll, S . Siorpaes, E. Rukzio, M. Paolucci, J. Hamard, M. Wagner and A. Schmidt. Supporting Mobile Service Usage through Physical Mobile Interaction, 5th Annual IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications, White Plains,NY, USA 2007 3] C. Floerkemeier, M. Langheinrich, E. Fleisch, F. Mattern and S.E Sarma. The Internet of Things. Proceedings of First International Conference, IOT 2008, Zurich, Switzerland. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4952, 2008 4] Revising Europes ICT Strategy, ftp://ftp.cordis.europa.eu/pub/ist/docs 


istag-revising-europesict-strategy-final-version_en.pdf 5] E. Rukzio, G. Broll, K. Leichtenstern, A. Schmidt. Mobile Interaction with the Real World: An Evaluation and Comparison of Physical Mobile Interaction Technique, Ambient Intelligence. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4794, 2007, pp. 1-18 6] J. Hong and E. Suh, S. Kim. Context-aware systems: A literature review and classification, Expert Systems with Applications. 2009 Elsevier 7] A.K. Dey and G.D. Abowd. Towards a better understanding of context and context-awareness, Proceedings of the Workshop on the What Who, Where, When and How of Context-Awareness, ACM Press, New York. 2000 8] H. Chen, T. Finin and A. Joshi.An Intelligent Broker for ContextAware Systems, Adjunct Proceedings of Ubicomp 2003 9] H. Chen, F. Perich, T. Finin, A. Joshi. SOUPA: standard ontology for ubiquitous and pervasive applications, The First Annual International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems: Networking and Services, 2004, MOBIQUITOUS 2004 10] M. Roman, C. Hess, R. Cerqueira, A. Ranganathan, R.H. Campbell and K. Nahrstedt. GAIA: A middleware infrastructure for active spaces IEEE Pervasive Computing, vol. 1, no. 4, 2002, pp. 74-83 11] Service Platform for Innovative Communication Environment \(SPICE An Integrated Project in European Unions IST 6th Framework Programme, http://www.ist-spice.org 12] Open Platform for User-centric service Creation and Execution OPUCE Framework Programme, http://www.opuce.tid.es 13] MobiLife, an Integrated Project in European Unions IST 6th Framework Programme, http://www.ist-mobilife.org 14] L. Lamorte. A platform for enabling context aware telecommunication services, Third Workshop on Context Awareness for Proactive Systems. 2007 15] C. Venezia, C.A. Licciardi Improve ubiquitous Web applications with Context Awareness, 11th ICIN 2007 16] J.J. Chen, C. Adams. Short-range wireless technologies with mobile payments systems, Proc. ICEC 04, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 649 656 17] K. Cheverst. Experiences of developing and deploying a context-aware tourist guide: The GUIDE project, 6th International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, Boston, August 2000, pp. 2031 18] D.J. Cooka, J.C. Augusto, V.R. Jakkula, Ambient intelligence Technologies, applications, and opportunitie, Pervasive and Mobile Computing. 2009 


19] J. Hong, E. Suh, S. Kim. Context-aware systems: A literature review and classification, Expert Systems with Applications. Elsevier. 2008 20] G. Matas Miraz, I. Luque Ruiz, M.A. Gmez-Nieto. How NFC can be used for the Compliance of European Higher Education Area Guidelines in European Universities. Proceedings 1st International IEEE Workshop on Near Field Communication. 3-8. 2009   14 


dataset contains a stream of TCP connection records from two weeks of LAN traffic over MIT Lincoln Labs. It consists of 42 attributes that usually characterize network traffic behavior, both categorical attributes and quantitative attributes such as duration of the connections, protocol type etc. Attribute src_byte denoting the number of data bytes from source to destination and attribute dst_bytes inverse are selected in this experiment.  They are both quantitative attributes The user specified parameters are set as follows 5, 0.3, 0.03, 0.01,W min_sup preMinsup T 0.5, 0.4, 30.min_confidence max_MFB min_num_triples And the number of transactions in each time slot is 250 It is assumed that there are no more than three fuzzy sets or intervals in the datasets i.e. 3F Four different approaches to mine association rules are compared using the following notations: Fuzzy+MFB: the approach that use both fuzzy method and MFB_measure with 1 3.0? = and 2 0 .5 2 0.5? = , Fuzzy+P: the approach using fuzzy method with 1 3.0? = and 2 0.5? = also but repressing the first part of the MFB_measure that ignores the changed rate of the membership function, Discrete1: the approach using discrete method with 1 2 1.5? ?= =  and Discrete2 : the approach using discrete method with 1 2 2.5 TABLE I. RESULT OF EXPERIMENT ONE NUM_C NUM_FI NUM_RULE TIME\(s 1 \(50,50 2 \(60,60 3 \(70,70 4 \(80,80 5 \(90,90 6 \(100,100 7 \(110,110 8 \(120,120 9 \(130,130 10 \(140,140 Volume 4] 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology V4-157 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 x 104 


0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Size of Databases\(250 Ex ec u tio n Ti m e\(s ec  Fuzzy+MFB Discrete1 Discrete2 Fuzzy+P Figure 3. Comparison of Execution Time Fig. 3 shows the execution time of the four approaches The runtimes of them grow linearly as the data stream grows which confirms that they are scalable with respect to the size of data stream, and it is mainly because of the usage of sliding window model. Fuzzy+P uses the least time Fuzzy+MFB has similar execution time to Discrete2, and Discrete1 has the most execution time. The difference of runtimes between them is mainly influenced by the clustering operations they use. The more clustering operations were executed, the more runtime it was Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 show the number of frequent itemsets and interesting rules found with the data stream increased Fuzzy+P and Fuzzy+MFB used less clustering operations than Discrete1 and Discrete2. Fuzzy+MFB nearly finds the most number of frequent fuzzy sets and interesting rules with the second least of clustering operations. Sometimes Discrete2 returns nearly the same number of fuzzy sets and interesting rules but with more clustering operations and the 


semantics of Discrete2 are meaningless as discussed in experiment one. Furthermore, the number of interesting rules found by Discrete1 is even less than Fuzzy+P that used the clustering operations least which illustrates the superiority of the method using fuzzy sets V. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, a novel fuzzy ARM algorithm called FFI_Stream is presented to tackle quantitative attributes in data streams and some techniques are proposed in the algorithm. Both synthetic and real datasets are used to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm. The experimental results show both the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm.  In comparison with the discrete method, the proposed algorithm using fuzzy sets and MFB_measure gets a trade-off between the number of interesting rules and efficiency ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work is supported by The National High Technology Research and Development Program of China 863 Program 2008AA042902 Technology Research and Development Program of China 863 Program 2009AA04Z162 Project \(B07031 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 Size of Databases\(250 N um be r o f F re qu e n t I 


te m se ts Fuzzy+MFB Discrete2 Discrete1 Fuzzy+P Clustering Operation Figure 4. Number of Frequent Itemsets 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 Size of Databases\(250 Nu m be r o f I n te re st in g Ru le s Fuzzy+MFB Discrete2 Discrete1 Fuzzy+P Clustering Operation Figure 5. Number of Interesting Rules REFERENCE 1] R. Srikant and R. Agrawal, Mining Quantitative Association Rules 


in Large Relational Talbes, Proc. ACM SIGMOD, 1996, pp. 1-12 2] A.W. Fu et al. Finding Fuzzy Sets for the Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules for Numerical Attributes, In Proceedings of the First International Symposium on Intelligent Data Engineering and Learning \(IDEAL'98 3] C. M. Kuok, A. Fu and M. H . Wong, Fuzzy Association Rules in Large Databases with Quantitative Attributes, In ACM SIGMOD Records, vol. 27, 1998, pp. 41-46 4] X. Dang, V. Lee, W. K. Ng and K.L Ong, Incremental and Adaptive Clustering Stream Data over Sliding Window, Database and Expert Systems Applications, vol. 5690, 2009, pp. 660-674 5] M. Kaya,?R. Alhajj, F. Polat, and A. Arslan, Efficient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules, Database and Expert System Applicaton, vol. 2453, 2002, pp.133-142 6] http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/kddcup99.html 7] S. Guha, A. N. Mishra, R. Motwani, L. OCallaghan, Clustering Data Streams: Theory and Practice,  Proc. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 15, May/Jun. 2003, pp. 515528 8] C. Aggarwal, J. Han, J. Wang, P. Yu, A Framework for Clustering Evolving Data Streams,  Proc. VLDB Conference, 2003,  pp. 81-92 9] C. K. S. Leung, B. Y. Hao, Mining of Frequent Itemsets from Streams of Uncertain Data,  Proc. IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 09 10] C. C. Aggarwal, Y. Li, J. Y. Wang, and J. Wang, Frequent Pattern Mining with Uncertain Data, Proc. ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Jun. 2009, pp 29-37 11] P. M. Tsai, Mining Frequent Itemsets in Data Streams using the Weighted Sliding Window Model, Expert Systems and Applications vol. 36, Nov. 2009, pp.11617-11625 V4-158 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology [Volume 4 


In all charts reported in this section, the X-axis is k, which denotes the size of sample under the space of a target rule drawn from deep web. The sample size for each point on X-axis is k x, where x is a ?xed value for our experiment, and depends upon the dataset. At each time, queries are issued to obtain kx data records under the space of a target rule. Overall, all our experiments show the variance of estimation, sampling costs and sampling accuracy with varying sample size Figure 1 shows the result from our strati?ed sample methods on the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, from which all of the 50 initial rules are derived. In this experiment the ?xed value x is set to be 300, which means the smallest sample size at k = 1 is 300, and the largest sample size at k 10 is 3000. Figure 1 a the ?ve sampling procedures. Figure 1 b cost for the sampling procedures. In order to better illustrate the experiment result, in each execution of sampling, the variance of 330 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH            9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  


9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW           6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF            5 


 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 1. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on US Census Dataset estimation and sampling cost for the sampling procedures var7 var5, var3, and rand are normalized by the corresponding values of Full Var. Thus, in our experiment, the values of sampling cost and variance of estimation for sampling procedure Full Var are all 1. Furthermore, Figure 1 c sampling procedures From Figure 1 a pared with sampling procedures Var7, Var5 and Var3, Full Var has the lowest estimation variance and the highest sampling cost. From sampling procedures Var7, Var5, and Var3, we can see a pattern that the variance of estimation increases, and the sampling cost decreases consistently with the decrease of the weight for variance of estimation. At the largest sample size of k = 10, the estimation variance of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 27% and the sampling cost is decreased by 40 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. The experiment shows that our method decreases the sampling cost ef?ciently by trading off a percent of variance of estimation. Similar to variance of estimation, the sampling accuracy of these procedures also decreases with the decrease of the weight on variance of estimation. For the largest sample size at k = 10, we can see that the AER of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 20 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. However, for many users, increase of the AER will be acceptable, since the sampling cost is decreased by 40%. By setting the weights for sampling variance and sampling cost, users would be able to control the trade-off between the variance of estimation, sampling cost, and estimation accuracy In addition, compared with sampling procedure of Full Var Var7, Var5, and Var3, sampling procedure Random, has higher estimation of variance, sampling cost and lower estimation accuracy. Thus, our approach clearly results in more effective methods than using simple random sampling for data mining on the deep web Figure 2 shows the experiment result of our proposed strati?ed 


sampling methods on the Yahoo! data set. The size of pilot sample on this data set is 2,000, and the ?xed value x for sample size is 200. The results are similar to those from the US census dataset. We can still see the pattern of the variance of estimation increasing with the decrease of its weight. Besides, the sampling accuracy is also similar to the variance of estimation. However although the variance estimation of sampling procedure Random is 60% larger than sampling procedure Full Var, the sampling cost of Random is 2% smaller than Full Var. This is because Full Var does not consider sampling cost. It is possible that Full Var assigns a large sample to a stratum with low ?, which denotes the probability of containing data records under the space of A = a, resulting the larger sampling cost than that of simple random sampling. Sampling procedures Var7, Var5, Var3 consider sampling cost as well, and have smaller variance estimation and sampling cost, compared with Random. Furthermore, Random has smaller sampling accuracy than Full Var, Var7 and Var5, but has larger sampling accuracy than Var3. This is because Var3 assigns much more importance to the sampling cost, and loses accuracy to a large extent To summarize, our results shows that our proposed strati?ed sampling are clearly more effective than simple random sampling on the deep web. Moreover, our approach allows users to tradeoff variance of estimation and sampling accuracy to some extent while achieving a large reduction in sampling costs B. Differential Rule Mining In this section, we present results from experiments based on differential rule mining. Particularly, we look at the rules of the form A = a ? D1\(t t categorical attribute and t is an output numerical attribute, while other categorical attributes in the data set are considered as input attributes In this experiment, we also evaluate our proposed method with different weights assigned to variance of estimation and sampling cost. Five sampling procedures, Full Var, Var7, Var5,Var3 and Random, have same meanings with those in the experiments of association rule mining. Similarly, 50 rules are randomly selected from the datasets, and each of the 50 differential rules are reprocessed 100 times using 100 different \(pilot sample, sample iterations 5000 runs First, we evaluated the performance of these procedures on 


the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, and all 50 rules are derived from this pilot sample. In this experiment the ?xed value x for the sample size is set to be 300. The attribute income is considered as a differential attribute, and the difference of income of husband and wife is studied in this experiment. Figure 3 shows the performance of the 5 sampling 331 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW    


      6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 2. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the US census data set. The results are also similar to the experiment results for association rule mining: there is a consistent trade off between the estimation variance and sampling cost by setting their weights. Our proposed methods have better performance than simple random sampling method 


We also evaluated the performance of our methods on the Yahoo! dataset. The size of pilot sampling is 2000, and the xed value x for the sample size is 200. The attribute price is considered as the target attribute. Figure 4 shows the performance of the 5 sampling procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the Yahoo! dataset. The results are very similar to those from the previous experiments VI. RELATED WORK We now compare our work with the existing work on sampling for association rule mining, sampling for database aggregation queries, and sampling for the deep web Sampling for Association Rule Mining: Sampling for frequent itemset mining and association rule mining has been studied by several researchers [23], [21], [11], [6]. Toivonen [23] proposed a random sampling method to identify the association rules which are then further veri?ed on the entire database. Progressive sampling [21], which is based on equivalence classes, involves determining the required sample size for association rule mining FAST [11], a two-phase sampling algorithm, has been proposed to select representative transactions, with the goal of reducing computation cost in association rule mining.A randomized counting algorithm [6] has been developed based on the Markov chain Monte Carlo method for counting the number of frequent itemsets Our work is different from these sampling methods, since we consider the problem of association rule mining on the deep web. Because the data records are hidden under limited query interfaces in these systems, sampling involves very distinct challenges Sampling for Aggregation Queries: Sampling algorithms have also been studied in the context of aggregation queries on large data bases [18], [1], [19], [25]. Approximate Pre-Aggregation APA  categorical data utilizing precomputed statistics about the dataset Wu et al. [25] proposed a Bayesian method for guessing the extreme values in a dataset based on the learned query shape pattern and characteristics from previous workloads More closely to our work, Afrati et al. [1] proposed an adaptive sampling algorithm for answering aggregation queries on hierarchical structures. They focused on adaptively adjusting the sample size assigned to each group based on the estimation error in each group. Joshi et al.[19] considered the problem of 


estimating the result of an aggregate query with a very low selectivity. A principled Bayesian framework was constructed to learn the information obtained from pilot sampling for allocating samples to strata Our methods are clearly distinct for these approaches. First strata are built dynamically in our algorithm and the relations between input and output attributes are learned for sampling on output attributes. Second, the estimation accuracy and sampling cost are optimized in our sample allocation method Hidden Web Sampling: There is recent research work [3 13], [15] on sampling from deep web, which is hidden under simple interfaces. Dasgupta et al.[13], [15] proposed HDSampler a random walk scheme over the query space provided by the interface, to select a simple random sample from hidden database Bar-Yossef et al.[3] proposed algorithms for sampling suggestions using the public suggestion interface. Our algorithm is different from their work, since our goal is sampling in the context of particular data mining tasks. We focus on achieving high accuracy with a low sampling cost for a speci?c task, instead of simple random sampling VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have proposed strati?cation based sampling methods for data mining on the deep web, particularly considering association rule mining and differential rule mining Components of our approach include: 1 the relation between input attributes and output attributes of the deep web data source, 2 maximally reduce an integrated cost metric that combines estimation variance and sampling cost, and 3 allocation method that takes into account both the estimation error and the sampling costs Our experiments show that compared with simple random sampling, our methods have higher sampling accuracy and lower sampling cost. Moreover, our approach allows user to reduce sampling costs by trading-off a fraction of estimation error 332 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH      


     V WL PD WL RQ R I 9D UL DQ FH  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 


9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 3. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the US Census Dataset 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL 


PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF         


    5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 4. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset REFERENCES 1] Foto N. Afrati, Paraskevas V. Lekeas, and Chen Li. Adaptive-sampling algorithms for answering aggregation queries on web sites. Data Knowl Eng., 64\(2 2] Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pages 487499, 1994 3] Ziv Bar-Yossef and Maxim Gurevich. Mining search engine query logs via suggestion sampling. Proc. VLDB Endow., 1\(1 4] Stephen D. Bay and Michael J. Pazzani. Detecting group differences Mining contrast sets. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 5\(3 246, 2001 5] M. K. Bergman. The Deep Web: Surfacing Hidden Value. Journal of Electronic Publishing, 7, 2001 6] Mario Boley and Henrik Grosskreutz. A randomized approach for approximating the number of frequent sets. In ICDM 08: Proceedings of the 2008 Eighth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pages 4352 Washington, DC, USA, 2008. IEEE Computer Society 7] D. Braga, S. Ceri, F. Daniel, and D. Martinenghi. Optimization of Multidomain Queries on the Web. VLDB Endowment, 1:562673, 2008 8] R. E. Ca?isch. Monte carlo and quasi-monte carlo methods. Acta Numerica 7:149, 1998 9] Andrea Cali and Davide Martinenghi. Querying Data under Access Limitations. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 5059, 2008 10] Bin Chen, Peter Haas, and Peter Scheuermann. A new two-phase sampling based algorithm for discovering association rules. In KDD 02: Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 462468, New York, NY, USA, 2002 ACM 


11] W. Cochran. Sampling Techniques. Wiley and Sons, 1977 12] Arjun Dasgupta, Gautam Das, and Heikki Mannila. A random walk approach to sampling hidden databases. In SIGMOD 07: Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data pages 629640, New York, NY, USA, 2007. ACM 13] Arjun Dasgupta, Xin Jin, Bradley Jewell, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das Unbiased estimation of size and other aggregates over hidden web databases In SIGMOD 10: Proceedings of the 2010 international conference on Management of data, pages 855866, New York, NY, USA, 2010. ACM 14] Arjun Dasgupta, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das. Leveraging count information in sampling hidden databases. In ICDE 09: Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 329340 Washington, DC, USA, 2009. IEEE Computer Society 15] Loekito Elsa and Bailey James. Mining in?uential attributes that capture class and group contrast behaviour. In CIKM 08: Proceeding of the 17th ACM conference on Information and knowledge management, pages 971 980, New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM 16] E.K. Foreman. Survey sampling principles. Marcel Dekker publishers, 1991 17] Ruoming Jin, Leonid Glimcher, Chris Jermaine, and Gagan Agrawal. New sampling-based estimators for olap queries. In ICDE, page 18, 2006 18] Shantanu Joshi and Christopher M. Jermaine. Robust strati?ed sampling plans for low selectivity queries. In ICDE, pages 199208, 2008 19] Bing Liu. Web Data Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents, and Usage Data \(Data-Centric Systems and Applications Inc., Secaucus, NJ, USA, 2006 20] Srinivasan Parthasarathy. Ef?cient progressive sampling for association rules. In ICDM 02: Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, page 354, Washington, DC, USA, 2002. IEEE Computer Society 21] William H. Press and Glennys R. Farrar. Recursive strati?ed sampling for multidimensional monte carlo integration. Comput. Phys., 4\(2 1990 22] Hannu Toivonen. Sampling large databases for association rules. In The VLDB Journal, pages 134145. Morgan Kaufmann, 1996 23] Fan Wang, Gagan Agrawal, Ruoming Jin, and Helen Piontkivska. Snpminer A domain-speci?c deep web mining tool. In Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, pages 192 199, 2007 24] Mingxi Wu and Chris Jermaine. Guessing the extreme values in a data set a bayesian method and its applications. VLDB J., 18\(2 25] Mohammed J. Zaki. Scalable algorithms for association mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 12:372390, 2000 


333 


