An Efficient Projected Database Method for Mining Sequential Association Rules Yi-Chun Chen Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering National Dong Hwa University Hualien, 974 Taiwan, R.O.C divien@gmail.com Guanling Lee Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering National Dong Hwa University Hualien, 974 Taiwan, R.O.C guanling@mail.ndhu.edu.tw AbstractThe mining of sequential patterns has been studied for several years, however, to our best knowledge, no study has considered the mining of sequential association rules despite such rules also providing valuable knowledge about many real applications. The sequential association rule represent that a set of items usually occur after a specific order sequence. In this paper, the concept of sequential association rule is proposed and an efficient algorithm, the SAR \(Sequential Association Rules algorithm, is proposed to discover these hidden knowledge. A set of experiments is also performed to show that the benefit of our approach Keywords-component; sequential association rule; projected database method;data mining I. INTRODUCTION Over the past decade, sequential pattern mining is an important data mining problem with many applications, such as the behavior of customer purchase in the market prediction alignment of DNA sequences and disease diagnoses and treatments. The basic idea of sequential pattern mining was first introduced in [2]. Given a set of data sequences, an apriori-based algorithm was proposed to discover all the subsequences whose supports are larger than a user-defined threshold. Subsequently, many approaches have been proposed to improve the efficiency of mining process, such as FreeSpan 3], PrefixSpan [4], SPADE [6], and SPAM [1], etc. In [3], by constructing projected databases, FreeSpan algorithm was proposed to find sequential patterns. And in [4], PrefixSpan algorithm was proposed to improve the performance of 


FreeSpan algorithm. It also used the projection scheme except that the projection is based on frequent prefixes. It is because that any frequent subsequence can be mined out according to the frequent prefixes. [6] and [1] introduced the vertical format and lattice concept methods, SPADE and SPAM algorithm respectively. The SPADE algorithm was introduced to divide the candidate sequences into distinct groups such that each group can be completely stored in the main memory. By using a lexicographic sequence tree and bitmap representation SPAM algorithm can speed up mining process of sequential patterns. Then, constraint-based sequential pattern mining based on constructing projected databases have been studied in 5]. By characterizing constraints for sequential pattern mining it can find highly interesting sequential patterns to user Therefore, it introduced a PG algorithm which is based on a prefix-monotone property to generate these patterns Exploring frequent sequential pattern can indeed extract useful information. In traditional sequential patterns mining, it usually mined out the specific order sequences, because the support of these sequences is higher than that of generic sequences. However, in real application, it is worth noting the conclusions of items which occurs after mining the specific order sequences. For example, in disease analysis, obesity BMI ? 25 obesity and hypertriglycemia usually cause a higher incidence of complications, such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hyperuricemia. There is no a specific occurring order of the three complications. Therefore, in this application, <obesity hypertriglycemia> forms a sequential pattern and hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperuricemia} is the itemset which occurs frequently after the sequence <obesity hypertriglycemia The contribution of our work is that it introduces a new concept of sequential association rules. A sequential pattern s with positive conclusion A is a sequential association rule s A? , where s is a sequential pattern and A is a frequent itemset following s. Moreover, an efficient algorithm, SAR algorithm, which is based on PrefixSpan algorithm is proposed to generate them. Experimental results show the effectiveness of our approach in mining sequential association rules The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 defines the problem and Section 3 discusses the main 


concepts of our algorithm. Experimental results and analyses are presented in section 4 and conclusions and future work is discussed in section 5 II. PROBLEM DEFINITION In this section, we formally define the problem of mining sequential association rule and some notations. Let 1{ , ..., }nI i i=  be a set of items and itemset A is a subset of I. A 978-1-4244-7571-1/10/$26.00 2010 IEEE 274 sequence s is an ordered list of items which is denoted as s i i i where ,i i? ?  and i? are  items belonging to I, i.e., , ,i i i I and 1 , , n? ? ?? ? . s  and A  denote the lengths of s and A, respectively. A sequence database S is a set of sequence transactions, <Sequence_id, Sequence>, and the list of sequence is ordered by increasing time. A sequence transaction Si is said to contain a sequence s if and only if s is a subsequence of Si contains s. The number of Sequence_id contained in called the support of s, denoted as sup\(s support threshold min_sup > 0, a sequence s is a sequential pattern in S if and only if sup TABLE I. A SEQUENCE DATABASE Sequence_id Sequence 1 a b c d f e 2 a d e b c 3 e a b d c 4 a c b f e Example 2.1 Refer to the sequence database listed in Table I Given min_sup = 0.5. The set of items in the sequence database is {a, b, c, d, e, f}. Take sequence <a,c> as an example   min_ sup   4 = 2?  . Sequence <a, c> is a sequential pattern In the past researches on sequential patterns mining, the mining results are usually a set of specific order sequences However, it is worth noting another specific type of sequential patterns. For example, refer to Table I, we know that <a,b a, b, c> and <a, b, d> are sequential patterns, but <a, b, c, d or <a, b, d, c> are not frequent in sequence database. However the itemset {c, d} usually occurrs after the sequential pattern a, b>. Therefore, in this paper, the concept of sequential association rule \( s A 


section 1,  obesity usually results in hypertriglycemia Moreover, obesity and hypertriglycemia usually cause a higher incidence of complications, such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hyperuricemia. Therefore, <obesity hypertriglycemia> ?  {hypertension, diabetes mellitus hyperuricemia} form a sequential association rule. Based on above discussion, the following definition is proposed Definition 2.1 \(Sequential Association Rule Given a sequential pattern s in S, where | |  2s ? , and an itemset A I? , they constitute a sequential association rule s A? ,  if and only if the following conditions hold 1 it satisfies that i i i A  2 s A conf\( s A 3 min_ supss ?  and j s A j  where ,k mj j I?  and 1 ,k m n III. SAR ALGORITHM The basic concept of our approach, SAR algorithm, is based on PrefixSpan algorithm [4]. It can be decomposed into three stages: \(1 frequent 1-itemset, a projected database is constructed. Then 2-sqeuential patterns are mined from the projected database accordingly; \(2 databases are constructed and used to mine out next length of sequential patterns and sequential association rules recursively; \(3 in stage 2 are compared with sequential patterns to eliminate the rules which violate condition 3 of definition 2.1 A detailed description of the algorithm is given in Fig. 1 and 2. The algorithm takes three inputs: a sequence database, S min_sup, and min_conf. Two arrays, SP[ ] and SAR[ ], are used to store the set of sequential patterns and sequential association rules, respectively. In line 1 of Fig. 1, the subroutine Modify_PrefixSpan is executed to find sequential patterns and 


sequential association rules. Continuously, by comparing SP and SAR[ ], the sequential association rules which violate condition 3 of definition 2.1 are removed from SAR[ ] to avoid false positive\(line 2- line 9 sequential association rules Figure 1. The SAR algorithm The subroutine Modify_PrefixSpan is discussed in Fig. 2 According to Definition 2.1, by considering the length of sequential pattern, it can be decomposed into two parts \(line 2 and line12 part \(line2- line 11 generated in the first part, by constructing projected databases of the sequential patterns, we can mine out sequential patterns Algorithm Input: A sequence DB S, the minimum support threshold min_sup, and the minimum confidence threshold min_conf Output: The set of sequential association rules Method 1.  Modify_PrefixSpan\(< >, l, S 2.  For each sequential association rule X in SAR[ ] do 3.  {  For each sequential pattern Y in SP[ ] do 4.     {  If \(X=Y 5.          Delete X 6.        Else 7.          Output X 8.     }//end for 9.  }// end for 275 and sequential association rules level by level, recursively \(line 12- line 28 association rule is calculated in this part and used to check whether the rule is strong \(line 25 illustrate the main concept of our algorithm Figure 2. Modify_PrefixSpan subroutine Example 3.1 Refer to Table I. Let min_sup = 0.5 and min_conf = 0.5, sequential association rules can be found in the following steps 1 a>: 4, <b>: 4, <c>: 4, <d>: 3, <e>: 4, <f>: 2 2 projected databases are constructed and frequent 2-sequential 


patterns are generated. For example, sequences in S containing a> form the a-projected database. By scanning a-projected database, the 2-sequential patterns having prefix <a> can be mined, <a, b>: 4, <a, c>: 4, <a, d>: 3, <a, e>: 3, <a, f>: 2 3 the step 2, by constructing projected databases of the sequential patterns, we can mine out sequential patterns and sequential association rules level by level, recursively. For example, by using 2-sequential patterns having prefix <a, b>-, <a, c>-, <a d>-, <a, e>-, and <a, f>-, five projected database are constructed. Mining <a, b>-projected database returns four 3sequential patterns, <a, b, c>: 3, <a, b, d>: 2, <a, b, f>: 2, and a, b, e>: 2, and two frequent 2-itemsets, {c, d}: 2 and {e, f 2. Because conf\( ,  { ,  }a b c d and conf\( ,  { ,  }a b e f sequential association rules are strong. Therefore, the rules a b c d< >?  and ,  { ,  }a b e f< >?  are stored into the array SAR[ ]. Similarly, we can find sequential patterns and sequential association rules on prefix <b>, <c>, <d>, <e>, and f>. The constructing projected databases and mining process are illustrated in Fig. 3 4 are sequential patterns. Therefore, , { ,  }a b e f< >?  and a c e f< >?  are not the valid sequential associateion rules. The final result is  {  }a b c d< >?  and this phase is shown in Fig. 4 IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS TABLE II. PARAMETER SETTING OF THE SYNTHETIC DATASETS Notation Meaning Value Default Range C Average number of transactions per customer 10 T Average number of items per transaction 1 min_sup Minimum support threshold  0.005~0.03 min_conf Minimum confidence threshold 0.5 A. Simulation Platform This section describes a set of simulations performed to assess the benefit of our approach. The test data were generated by an IBM synthetic data generator. The parameter settings for generating the test dataset and evaluating the approach are listed in Table II. In this paper, due to the limit of space, only the results on default dataset C10T1 are reported. In this 


dataset, the number of distinct items is 1000, and the number of sequences is 10000. C10 represents the average number of transactions of each customer is 10 and T1 means that each transaction contains only one item. The simulations are implemented in C++ and all the experiments are performed in an Intel Pentium 3.20GHz with 3GB of memory, running Windows 7 B. Efficiency Analysis In the first experiment, we test the execution time of scalability with support threshold are shown in Fig. 5.The result show that when the support threshold is high, few sequential patterns are mined and the length of patterns is short Comparatively, as the support threshold decreases, there are Subroutine Modify_PrefixSpan\(a, l, Sa a: a sequential pattern l: the length of a Sa: the a-projected DB Method 1. s 2.  If \(l<2 3.  {  Scan Sa 4.     Find the set aF of frequent items 5.     For each frequent item ab F?  do 6.        s s ab 7.     For each a s? ?  do 8.     {  Construct a-projected DB Sa 9.        Modify_PrefixSpan\(a, l+1, Sa 10.     } // end for 11.  } // end if 12. Else 13.  { Scan Sa 14.     Find the set aF  of frequent items 15.     Find the set FI of frequent itemsets A 16.     For each frequent item ab F?  do 17.     {   s s ab 18.        [ ]SP s 19.     } // end for 20.     For each a s? ?  do 21.     {  Construct a-projected DB Sa 22.        Modify_PrefixSpan\(a, l+1, Sa 23.     } // end for 24.     For each frequent itemset A FI 


25.     {  if\( conf 26.        [ ]SAR aA 27.     } // end for 28. }// end else 276 Figure 3. An example of SAR algorithm Figure 4. The final results of SAR algorithm Sequence_id Sequence 1 a b c d f e 2 a d e b c 3 e a b d c 4 a c b f e Frequent 1-sequence a:4 b:4 c:4 d:3 e:4 f:2 A sequence database a-projected DB 1 b c d f e 2 d e b c 3 b d c 4 c b f e b-projected DB 1 c d f e 2 c 3 d c 4 f e f-projected DB 1 e 4 e    Frequent 2-sequence a b>:4 a c>:4 a d>:3 a e>:3 a f>:2 


Frequent 2-sequence b c>:3 b d>:2 b e>:2 b f>:2    a b>-projected DB 1 c d f e 2 c 3 d c 4 f e a c>-projected DB 1 d f e 4 b f e    a f>-projected DB 1 e 4 e Frequent 3-sequence a b c>:3 a b d>:2 a b f>:2 a b e>:2 Frequent 2-itemset of prefix <a b c d}:2 e f}:2    a b c>-projected DB 1 d f e a b d>-projected DB 1 f e 3 c a b f>-projected DB 1 e 4 e 


Frequent 4sequence a b f e>:2 SP a b>:4 a c>:4 a d>:3 a e>:3 a f>:2 a b c>:3 a b d>:2 a b f>:2 a b e>:2 a b f e>:2 a c f>:2 a c e>:2 a c f e>:2    compare SAR[ ] <a b> ?{c d}: 2 a b> ?{e f}:2 a c> ?{e f}:2 output a b> ?{c d}: 2 277 many sequential patterns and the length of patterns is long Therefore, the execution time increases as the support threshold is decreased because of a large increase in the number of sequential patterns in the result. The number of sequential association rules generated in different support thresholds is shown in Fig. 6. When min_sup is 0.5%, few sequential association rules are mined. This is because that there are many sequential patterns as support threshold is low. Therefore, only longer sequences can satisfy the properties of sequential association rules in a low min_sup. As support threshold increases from 0.5% to 1.5%, the number of sequential association rules increase. This is because that few sequential patterns are mined and the length of patterns is short. However according to the property of apriori, the support of short length of sequences is larger than that of long length of sequences. As a result, the probability of a short sequential pattern to form a 


sequential association rule is higher than that of a long sequential pattern. As the support threshold is between 1.5 and 3%, the number of sequential association rules decreased The main reason for the decrease is that the minimum support is high enough, the restriction of sequential association rules become more tightly In summary, the experimental results described above demonstrate that our SAR algorithm offers the scalability in efficiency and reports sequential association rules with different support thresholds Figure 5. Execution time of our algorithm with different min_sup Figure 6. Number of sequential association rules V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In this paper, a new concept of sequential association rules is introduced. Mining sequential association rules provide valuable knowledge which cannot get from sequential patterns mining and it can be applied in many applications, such as disease analysis and market decision. Moreover, SAR algorithm is proposed for mining sequential association rules The experiments show that the proposed algorithm offers execution time of scalability with support threshold and reports sequential association rules There remain some problems that are worth studying in the future. First, investigating more efficient algorithms to improve the scalability of mining sequential association rules is important. Furthermore, extending to find negative sequential association rules will also be worthwhile REFERENCES 1] J. Ayres, J. Gehrke, T. Yiu, and J. Flannick, Sequential Pattern Mining using a Bitmap Representation, In Proc. 2002 ACM Int. Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(SIGKDD02 Alberta, Canada, July 2002, pp. 429-435 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, Mining sequential patterns, In Proc. 1995 Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE95 3-14 3] J. Han, J. Pei, B. Mortazavi-Asl, Q. Chen, U. Dayal, and M. C. Hsu FreeSpan: Frequent Pattern-Projected Sequential Pattern Mining, In Proc. 2000 Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining SIGKDD00 4] J. Pei, J. Han, H. Pinto, Q. Chen, U.Dayal, and M. C. Hsu, PrefixSpan Mining Sequential Patterns Efficiently by Prefix-Projected Pattern Growth, In Proc. 2001 IEEE Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE01 


Heidelberg, Germany, Apr. 2001, pp. 215-224 5] J. Pei, J. Han, and W. Wang, Constraint-based sequential pattern mining: the patter-growth methods, Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, Vol. 28, April 2007, pp. 133-160 6] M. J. Zaki, SPADE: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Sequences, Machine Learning Journal, Vol. 42 No.1-2, 2001, pp. 3160 278 


Judging by common sense, the High threshold is defined as follows: for sections with one lane , if there exist 2 or more cars in 10 meters, then it is a High volume situation. On the other hand, the middle threshold is defined as follows: for sections with one lane, if there exist more than 1, and less than 2 cars in 10 meters, it is a Middle volume situation. The remains will be discretized to Low traffic volume situation The cars are randomly generated based on the values of the pre-defined OD\(OringinJDestination for every OD pair is changing during the execution as shown in Fig.6 lY l Jl .? 15 co ? 10 Xl 5 Q O .r:: 0 o 50 100  150 T:in e 4n ilutes Fig. 6. Change of OriginiDestination values in simulations B. Simulation Result The parameter setting of the proposed data mining during the evolution is shown in Table IV. The total number of rules stored in the rule pool is shown in Fig.7. Each round has the same number of generations of 50 and the chosen set size for AAM is 100[14 TABLE IV PARAMETER SETTING FOR EVOLUTION Items Values Number of judgment nodes 100 Number of processing nodes 10 N umber of attributes 500 Number of consequents 1500 Number of time points 120 Minimum confidence value 0.9 Minimum chi-squared value 6.63 Minimum support value 0.05 40000 Ul 35000 !Il " 30000 '" .... "0 25000 20000 ? '" 15000 j9 10000 0 5000 E 


r r  r r l o 100 200 300 400 500 ROlU1ds Fig. 7. Total number of rules extracted In order to check the effectiveness of the extracted rules we tested the classification accuracy of the proposed method using the classifier with competition The average prediction accuracy is shown in Table V. The accuracy is defined in the following: if the traffic prediction result of the section at time t is "Low" and the real traffic of this section at time t is exactly "Low", then the accuracy is 100%. The low/middle/high accuracy means the accuracy when the real traffic is low/middle/high, respectively Table V shows that the method with Accuracy Validation can improve the overall accuracy than the method without Accuracy Validation. The Middle volume of the traffic network can not be predicted accurately because the middle situations do not appear frequently enough to generate an enough number of association rules TABLE V AVERAGE PREDICTION ACCURACY FOR TESTING DATABASE Method Prediction Accuracy Overall Low Middle High With Accuracy Validation 84.82 85.84 57.71 89.71 Without Accuracy Validation 82.64 83.57 56.57 87.13 Longer step prediction is explored by studying the 2-step, 3step and 4-step prediction, where n-step means the prediction of the traffic volume at n time points later. It's results are shown in Fig. 8. It is shown from Fig.8 that the prediction accuracy decreases as the number of prediction step increases but the increase of the number of steps does not affect the overall accuracy so much, so the proposed method can do relative stable prediction even if the number of prediction steps Increases The ratio of the usable rules to the total number of rules in each prediction step is shown in Fig.9, which describes that 


how the number of the usable rules for prediction decreases by the increase of the prediction steps, considering the condition that the time delay between the antecedent part and consequent part should be bigger or equal to the prediction step. In another word, as the prediction step increases, the number of the usable rules decreases 86 if G 84 82 80 f-------?-""":__---------1 0:: 78 r-------------">.-======---1 :? 76 -------------------j 74 72 4 n-6tep I?w ihAcCUlacyValiiarnn -w ihoutAcCUlacyValiiarnn I Fig. 8. Overall accuracy for 2-step, 3-step and 4-step prediction The proposed method cannot extract all the rules meeting the given definition of importance since it uses the fixed 2254 120 II 100 80 "'<Ie o 60 ?? ? 0: 40 20 0 N Step Fig. 9. Average percentage of usable rules for each prediction step number of rules for each class of the consequent attributes but the result shows that the ability to extract important rules is sufficient enough for the purposes. The mechanism of Accuracy Validation shows more stable performances as shown in Fig. 8 V. CONCLUSION In this paper, an association rule mining method using GNP with Accuracy Validation mechanism has been proposed. It is clarified from simulations that the proposed method can extract important time-related association rules for each class of the consequent attributes efficiently. What's more important is that these rules can be used to decide to which class the time related data belong accurately. From simulations, we have also 


found that the proposed method can be used in traffic volume prediction problems. Further improvements of the proposed method is studied in terms of applying the proposed method to real world navigation systems REFERENCES I Vehicle Routing and Congestion Predictions for Real-time Driver Guid ance, Transportation Research Records, 1408, Transportation Research Board, Washington D.C., pp. 66-74, 1993 2 October 17, 1989 3 network predictions, In Proc. of the Conference of Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, Sherbrooke, Quebec, June, pp. 331-339, 1997 4 dynamic traffic networks with joint route and departure time choice. In Proc. of the 84th Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board Washington, DC., 2005 5 Springer, 2002 6 Related Sequential Association Rule Mining and Traffic Prediction", In Proc. of the IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation 2009, 2009/5 7 gorithm: Genetic Network Programming\(GNP Reinforcement Learning", Evolutionary Computation, MIT press, Vol. IS No.3, pp.369-398, 2007 8 Multiagent Models Based on Symbiosis", IEEE Trans. on Syst., Man and Cybernetics - Part B -, Vol.36, No.1, pp.179-193, 2006 9 Deck Elevator Group Supervisory Control System Using Genetic Network Programming, IEEE Trans. on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, Part C, Vol 38, No. 4, pp. 535-550, 200817 10 University of Michigan Press, 1975 11] D. E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithm in search, optimization and machine learning, Addison -Wesley, 1989 12 means of natural selection, Cambridge, Mass., MIT Press, 1992 13 Programs, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1994 


14 Association Rules Mining with Attribute Accumulation Mechanism and its Application to Traffic Prediction", Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics, Vol. 12, No. 5, pp. 467-478 200817 15 Information and Communication System", Vehicle Navigation and Infor mation Systems Conference, 1993 2255 


intend to expand this work to involve some interesting features in each stage prediction and evaluate it on many datasets   REFERENCES  1] F. Ricardo, N. Ana, M. Paula, B. Gleidson, R. Fabiano ODE: Ontology-based software Development Environment, Proceedings of the IX Argentine Congress on Computer Science, pp. 1124-1135, 2003 2] E. Mendes, B. A. Kitchenham. Further comparison of cross-company and within-company effort estimation models for Web applications. In: Proc. 10th IEEE International Software Metrics Symposium, Chicago USA, pp.348-357, 2004 3] B. Boehm, R. Valerdi. Achievements and Challenges in Software Resource Estimation, Proceedings of ICSE 06 Shanghai, China, pp. 74-83,  2006 4] K. Molokken, M. Jorgensen. A review of software surveys on software effort estimation, Proceedings of International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering \(ISESE 2003 5] M. Jorgensen, K. Molokken-Ostvold. How large are software cost overruns? A review of the 1994 CHAOS report, Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48 issue 4. PP. 297-301, 2006 6] X. Huanga, D. Hob, J. Rena, L. F. Capretz. Improving the COCOMO model using a neuro-Fuzzy approach Applied Soft Computing, Vol.7, issue 1, pp. 29-40, 2007 7] L. Briand, T. Langley, I. Wieczorek. A replicated assessment and comparison of common software cost modeling techniques, Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on Software Engineering, 2000 8] S.-J Huang, N. H. Chiu. Optimization of analogy weights by genetic algorithm for software effort estimation Information and Software Technology, Vol. 48, issue 11 pp. 1034-1045, 2006 9] Z. Xu, T. M. Khoshgoftaar. Identification of Fuzzy models of software cost estimation, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Vol. 145, issue 1, pp. 141-163, 2004 10] R. Pressman. Software Engineering: practitioner 


approaches, McGraw Hill, London, 2004 11] M. Boraso, C. Montangero, H. Sedhi. Software cost estimation: an experimental study of model performance Universita di Pisa, Italy, 1996 12] Y. Wang, Q. Song, J. Shen., 2007. Grey Learning Based Software Stage-Effort Estimation. International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pp 1470-1475, 2007 13] S. G. MacDonell, M. J. Shepperd. Using prior-phase effort records for re-estimation during software projects Ninth International, Software Metrics Symposium, pp 73- 86, 2003 14] M .C Ohlsson, C. Wohlin. An Empirical Study of Effort Estimation during Project Execution, Sixth International Software Metrics Symposium \(METRICS'99 1999 15] N. H. Chiu,,S. J. Huang.  The adjusted analogy-based software effort estimation based on similarity distances Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 80, issue 4, pp 628-640, 2007 16] P. Sentas, L. Angelis, I. Stamelos, G.  Bleris. Software productivity and effort prediction with ordinal regression Information and Software Technology, Vol. 47, issue 1 pp. 17-29, 2005 17] E. Mendes, N. Mosley. Comparing effort prediction models for Web design and authoring using boxplots Australian Computer Science Communications,  Vol. 23 Issue 1, pp. 125-133, 2001 18] E. Mendes, N. Mosley, I. Watson. A comparison of casebased reasoning approaches, Proceedings of the 11th international conference on World Wide Web, pp. 272280, 2002 19] Q. Zhao, S. S. Bhowmick. Association Rule Mining: A Survey  http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/734613.html, 2003 20] S. Morisak, A. Monden, H. Tamada. An Extension of association rule mining for software engineering data repositories, Information Science Technical Report NAIST, 2006 21] Q. Song, M. Shepperd.  M. Cartwright, C. Mair. Software defect association mining and defect correction effort prediction, IEEE transaction on software engineering Vol. 32, No.2, pp. 69-82, 2006 


22] R. Agrawal, T. Amielinski, A. Swami. Mining association rule between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207-216, 1993 23] M-J. Huang, Y-L. Tsou, S-C. Lee.  Integrating Fuzzy data mining and Fuzzy artificial neural networks for discovering implicit knowledge, J. Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol.19 \(6 24] ISBSG International Software Benchmarking standards Group, Data repository release 10, Site http://www.isbsg.org, 2007 25] L. Zadeh. Toward a theory of Fuzzy information granulation and its centrality in human reasoning and Fuzzy logic. J. Fuzzy sets and Systems 90, pp. 111-127 1997 26] I. H. Witten, E. Frank. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques, 2nd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2005   256 


encountering a related term, i.e. IC\(c e intuition behind the use of the negative likelihood is that the more probable a term to appear, the less information it conveys. All these features show that Jiangs measure tends to be more general and more appropriate for evaluating nontaxonomically related terms. Indeed, a high score of the relatedness measures suggests a strong relationship between terms Nevertheless, all relatedness measures have limitations because they assume that all the semantic content of a particular term is modeled by semantic links in WordNet Consequently, in many situations, truly related terms obtain a low scores even though their belongings to a certain category of tags, e.g., jargon tags Additionally, when measuring the quality of an automatically knowledge acquisition results, the typical measures used in Information Retrieval are Recall, Precision and F-Measure. However, computing Recall and F-Measure requires the availability of a Gold Standard. Hence, we will only compute the Precision which speci?es to which extent the non-taxonomic relationships is extracted correctly. In this case, the ratio between the correctly extracted relations i.e., their relatedness measures is greater than or equal to a minimum threshold, and the whole number of extracted ones is computed. Thus, we have Precision Total correctly selected entities Total selected entities 12 http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-Similarity 13 A term refers to a tag subject or a tag object C. Evaluation of non-taxonomic relationships Only a percentage of the full set of non-taxonomic relationships \(89 is caused by the presence of non standard terms which are not contained in WordNet and, in consequence, cannot be evaluated using WordNet-based relatedness measures. Fig. 5 depicts the evaluation results of the extracted non-taxonomic relationships against their relatedness measures High relatedness score \(88 17% of the extracted relationships, as most of terms are strongly related with respect WordNet Null Scores were obtained for 5% of the extracted 


relationships. Analyzing this case in more detail, we have observed that the poor score is caused in many situations by the way in which Jiangs distance metric works. This latter completely depends on the distance between two terms based on the number of edges found on the path between them in WordNet. In consequence this measure returns a value that does not fully represent reality. For example, on the one hand, Jiangs distance metric returns a null value for the relationship between insurance and car, even though the ?rst is a commonly related to the second, i.e., car involved insurance Finally with a minimal Jiangs distance metric threshold, set to 46%, the computed precision of correctly extracted relationships candidates is equal to 68.8 An example of extracted non-taxonomic relationships is depicted in Table V where each relation describes the subject tag, e.g., tool, the predicate, e.g is being developed within, and the object tag, e.g mesh. Fig. 4 represent a fragment output of the extracted ontological structure where each concept de?nes a set of similar and synonym tags and labels, i.e., mentions has been, revealed, caused and is created with describe the predicates of the non-taxonomic relationships between terms Due to the limitations observed by the automatic evaluation procedure and the lack of gold standards containing non-taxonomic relationships, we have examined the extracted non-taxonomic relationships from a linguistic point 377 Top space      distance     quad great     groovy nifty caused address      addresses extension      quotation   reference  references extensions        referenz     source      refrence sources    rfrences    quotations research    search     searching searchs open-source     open_source 


opensource linux aim     design     designer      designers patern    project     patterns     projekte projects web+design    web_design webdesign internet       internetbs net          web network      networking networks      web discussion     news       password word      words community      communities is_created_with mentions revealed has_been Figure 4. A fragment output of the extracted ontological structure of view. This qualitative evaluation can bring some interesting insights about the kind of results one can expect Invalid relations are extracted: Even though a relation such as music cities skill is considered as correct one since tag subject, tag object and predicate are correctly extracted. From a semantic point of view, this relation has no meaning. Hence, a higher precision is expected Figure 5. Summary of non-taxonomic evaluation measure Table V EXAMPLES OF EXTRACTED NON TAXONOMIC RELATIONSHIPS Subject Predicate Object search has been reference reference mentions search tool is being developed within mesh security added encoding search revealed reference java provides library by performing the sense analysis on complete relations An ambiguity in the extracted predicates between terms is observed: Hence, same relations are redundant since they use a synonym predicates between terms, e.g java provides library and java yields library. Thus we expect that the redundancy removal within extracted relations will be of bene?t for the improvement of the 


obtained results VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK The extraction of non-taxonomic relationships from folksonomies is to the best of our knowledge is the least tackled task within ontology building from folksonomy. This is why there is a need of novel and general purpose approaches covering the full process of learning relationships. In this paper, we introduced a new approach called NONTAXFOLKS that starts by pre-processing tags aiming at getting a set of frequent tagsets corresponding to an agreed representation Then, they are used to retrieve related tags using external resources such as WordNet. Thanks to the particular structure of triadic concepts, it allows grouping semantically related tags by considering the semantic relatedness embodied in the different frequencies of co-occurences among users, resources and tags in the folksonomy. Thereafter we introduced an algorithm called NTREXTRACTION for extracting non-taxonomic relationships between pair of tags picked from the triadic concepts. In summary, our approach uses several well known techniques \(such as formal concept analysis or association rule discovering the social bookmaring environnement in order to propose a new way of extracting labeled non-taxonomic relationships between tags. Currently, we are investigating the following topic concerning the discovered predicates between two terms. Indeed, in order to avoid relationships redundancy and thus a redundancy in the builded ontology. One can try to classify them into prede?ned semantic classes, detect synonyms, inverses, etc. A standard classi?cation of verbs could be used for this purpose, adding additional information about the semantic content, e.g., senses, verb types, thematic roles, etc., of predicates relationships 378 REFERENCES 1] J. Pan, S. Taylor, and E. Thomas, Reducing ambiguity in tagging systems with folksonomy search expansion, in Proceedings of the 6th Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC2009 2] V. S. M. Kavalec, A. Maedche, Discovery of lexical entries for non-taxonomic relations in ontology learning, in Proceedings of the SOFSEM 2004, LNCS, vol. 2932, 2004, pp 249256 


3] L. Specia and E. Motta, Integrating folksonomies with the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 4th European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC 2007 Innsbruck, Austria, vol. 4519, June 2007, pp. 624639 4] P. Mika, Ontologies are us: A uni?ed model of social networks and semantics, in Proceedings of the 4th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC2005 3729, Galway, Ireland, June 2005, pp. 522536 5] P. Schmitz, Inducing ontology from ?ickr tags, in Proceedings of the Workshop on Collaborative Tagging \(WWW 2006 Edinburgh, Scotland, May 2006 6] M. Zhou, S. Bao, X. Wu, and Y. Yu, An unsupervised model for exploring hierarchical semantics from social annotations, in Proceedings of the 6th International Semantic Web Conference and 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference ISWC/ASWC2007 Korea, vol. 4825, November 2006, pp. 673686 7] C. Schmitz, A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, and G. Stumme, Mining association rules in folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 10th IFCS Conference \(IFCS 2006 2006, pp. 261270 8] A. Hotho, A. Maedche, S. Staab, and V. Zacharias, On knowledgeable unsupervised text mining, in Proceedings of Text Mining Workshop, Physica-Verlag, 2003, pp. 131152 9] A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme, Information retrieval in folksonomies: Search and ranking, in The Semantic Web: Research and Applications, vol. 4011 Springer, 2006, pp. 411426 10] F. Lehmann and R. Wille, A triadic approach to formal concept analysis, in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Conceptual Structures: Applications, Implementation and Theory. Springer-Verlag, 1995, pp. 3243 11] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G.Stumme Discovering shared conceptualizations in folksonomies Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, vol. 6, pp. 3853, 2008 12] A. Mathes, Folksonomies - cooperative classi?cation and communication through shared metadata, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Tech. Rep. LIS590CMC, December 2004 13] H. Lin, J. Davis, and Y. Zhou, An integrated approach 


to extracting ontological structures from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 6th European Semantic Web Conference ESWC 2009 vol. 5554, 2009, pp. 654668 14] M. Szomszor, H. Alani, K. OHara, and N. Shadbolt, Semantic modelling of user interests based on cross-folksonomy, in Proceedings of the 7th International Semantic Web Conference \(ISWC 2008 15] G.Begelman, P. Keller, and F.Smadja, Automated tag clustering: Improving search and exploration in the tag space, in Proceedings of the the Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop WWW 2006 16] R. Jaschke, A. Hotho, C. Schmitz, B. Ganter, and G. Stumme TRIAS - an algorithm for mining iceberg tri-lattices, in Procedings of the 6th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, \(ICDM 2006 2006, pp. 907911 17] C. Borgelt, Ef?cient implementation of APRIORI and ECLAT, in FIMI, COEUR Workshop Proceedings, COEURWS.org, vol. 126, 2003 18] J. Tang, H. Leung, Q. Luo, D. Chen, and J. Gong, Towards ontology learning from folksonomies, in Proceedings of the 21st international jont conference on Arti?cal intelligence IJCAI 2009 20892094 19] L. Ding, T. Finin, A. Joshi, R. Pan, R. Cost, Y. Peng P. Reddivari, V. Doshi, and J. Sachs, Swoogle: A search and metadata engine for the semantic web, in Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 652659 20] A. Hliaoutakis, G. Varelas, E. Voutsakis, E. Petrakis, and E. E Milios, Information retrieval by semantic similarity, International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems IJSWIS 21] G. Pirro, M. Ruffolo, and D. Talia, Secco: On building semantic links in peer to peer networks, Journal on Data Semantics XII, LNCS 5480, pp. 136, 2009 22] C. Meilicke, H. Stuckenschmidt, and A. Tamilin, Repairing ontology mappings, in Proceedings of the International Conference AAAI 2007, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 2007, pp. 14081413 23] S. Ravi and M. Rada, Unsupervised graph-based word sense 


disambiguation using measures of word semantic similarity in Proceedings of the International Conference ICSC 2007 Irvine, California, USA, 2007 24] H. G. A. Budanitsky, Semantic distance in wordnet: an experimental application oriented evaluation of ?ve measures in Proceedings of the International Conference NACCL 2001 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, 2007, pp. 2934 25] J. Jiang and D. Conrath, Semantic similarity based on corpus statistics and lexical taxonomy, in Proceedings of the International Conference ROCLING X, 1997 379 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


