Applying data mining and mathematical morphology to borehole data coming from exploration and mining industry Artak Amirbekyan Earth System Science Computational Centre School of Earth Sciences, The University of Queensland Brisbane, Australia artak@uq.edu.au AbstractMining companies investigate very carefully the area of proposed mine sites. This is done by first looking at the geology of the area and then drilling the boreholes to predict the quantity and if possible approximate the structure of the mine and distribution of the metal grades. The data obtained from boreholes is analysed using point interpolation techniques such as inverse distance weighting \(IDW techniques have some shortcomings as they heavily rely on strong spatial correlation and they assume linear dependency In this paper we show how data mining techniques can contribute to planning and even to interpolation tasks when used on borehole data. For this, we first transform the borehole data into a form that is suitable for our methods, then perform k-near-neighbours \(k-NN mining analysis. We also compare k-NN classification method with IDW and show how association rules discovered during the process can improve the results of each method. Moreover we propose using mathematical morphology operations to filter results for better understanding and, perhaps, for better accuracy Overall this paper shows possible application of data mining techniques in the mining industry and presents a general framework for carrying out such tasks Keywords-k-near-neighbors; association rules; boreholes; inverse distance weighting; mathematical morphology I. INTRODUCTION Mineral exploration is a process undertaken by companies with the goal of finding ore \(i.e. commercially viable concentrations of minerals one of the important phases is the resource evaluation, which is undertaken to quantify the grade and quantity of a mineral occurrence. This is achieved primarily by drilling to sample the prospective area of the mine The ultimate aim is to generate a density of drilling sufficient to satisfy the economic and statutory standards 


Depending on the financial situation and size of the deposit the level of detail required to generate this resource estimation and stage at which extraction can commence varies For small partnerships and private non-corporate enterprises a low level of detail is required whereas for corporations which require debt equity \(loans extraction infrastructure, the rigour necessary in resource estimation is far greater. For large cash rich companies working on small ore bodies, they may work only to a level necessary to satisfy their internal risk assessments before extraction commences During the drilling a geologist takes samples and records spatial coordinates of the samples, rock types, ore grades and many other parameters. Eventually, this drill hole \(or borehole 3D model of the ore body, which includes ore and rock type distributions and grades. Obviously, the more borehole data you have the more accurate your interpolation will be. But drilling a borehole is very expensive activity, that is why smart approximation techniques are needed to produce quality results The geostatistical approach offers several possible models for interpolation of spatial data such as kriging and inverse distance weighting \(IDW   techniques become available, adapting new techniques or perhaps improving old ones for industry needs is a very important exercise. Of course, one should keep in mind the potential applications of the proposed techniques as not every method is universal. Sometimes adaptations are required to transfer theoretical methods into a form that can be used in practical applications. Here we focus on methods relevant to mining industry For most data mining algorithms, the data is encoded as vectors in high dimensional space1. For these algorithms, a measurement of similarity \(or dissimilarity often fundamental to their operation. Similarity queries on multi-dimensional data are usually implemented by finding the closest feature vector\(s query data. More importantly, in large databases, the high dimensional space can be subject to the curse of dimensionality [9], and in such settings, content-based retrieval under the vector model must typically be implemented as k-NN 


KNN features most closely resemble those of the query vector according to the similarity measure. This type of query is known as a nearest neighbour \(NN  1Attribute-vectors are the common input for learning algorithms like decision trees, artificial neural network or for clustering algorithms like k-Means or DBSCAN 2010 Sixth IEEE International Conference on eScience 978-0-7695-4290-4/10 $26.00  2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/eScience.2010.10 113 extensively studied in the literature [8][10] and forms the basis of k-NN classification algorithm included in the top 10 algorithms in data mining [11 Similarity search is widely used as a common form of query in modern database applications such as geographical information systems \(GIS   medical imaging [14], and bioinformatics [15]. The similarity between two objects is defined with a distance function e.g., Euclidean distance, between the corresponding feature vectors. For example, in image databases, the query can ask for the most similar images to a given image [8]. 3D shape histograms are used in molecular biology to find similar 3D proteins [16 In this paper we use k-NN classification algorithm for interpolating spatial data coming from exploration and mining companies. This is achieved by changing data representation from grades to classes. We also provide experimental comparison with IDW method and show how association rules can improve the results for both existing and new methods This paper first introduces the reader to the borehole data see Section II we are dealing with and the complex spatial distribution they can have. Then, in Section III we explain point interpolation for borehole data, and how points to be interpolated are constructed. The inverse distance weighting method, used by geostatisticians, as an interpolation technique is briefly introduced in Section IV. For borehole data to be explored by data mining algorithms, such as k-NN classification and association rules mining, it needs some specific preparation which is proposed in Section V The k-NN classification as an alternative method for IDW 


is investigated with its usefulness is shown in Section VI The possibility of applying association rules mining to the borehole data is presented in Section VII. Later on in Section VIII, the promising results of the cross-validation as a comparison method between IDW and k-NN classification are shown. Moreover, we show in Section IX how association rules can further improve interpolation results of each method. The Section X and Section XI introduce some basic operations of mathematical morphology, then show how we can use them to filter the results coming from k-NN interpolation Finally, we conclude \(see Section XII some thoughts about main contributions brought by this paper and demonstrate the possibility of future work on this subject \(see Section XIII II. BOREHOLE DATA As we mentioned earlier, in the planning phase the borehole data is used when deciding concerning whether it is worth mining the area and how to mine by knowing approximate structure of the ore body Typical borehole data consist of many parameters, but we focus only on spatial coordinates, rock types and grades of various metals such as Au \(gold nickel copper see Table I BID X Y Z AU CU NI RID EXID1 -97.5 -75.7 24.1 1.8 0.13 0.34 2 EXID1 -97.5 -75.7 23.8 3.1 0.11 0.33 2 EXID1 -97.5 -75.7 9.5 0.01 0.02 0.06 8  Table I PART OF THE BOREHOLE DATA Because of confidentially of the data borehole ID \(BID and coordinates are changed, but the rest is unmodified. Note that the drilled boreholes are not in homogeneous fashion but depending on the area and how difficult it is for drilling the distribution of boreholes can be quite complex. The Figure 1 is an example of the drilled area Figure 1. A plan view \(top-down When interpolating one should make sure that interpolated area contains at least some minimum amount of nearby boreholes, otherwise interpolation does not make sense III. BUILDING A GRID 


The next step is to build a grid across the area of boreholes. Every record in the database corresponds to a point in 3D. The grid in other words are new points that need to be interpolated by using the points in the borehole data. For instance, if in the interval \(a,b values, coming from borehole data, depending on how dense we want our grid to be, we add another, say four, new points and by some interpolation techniques calculate the values \(for instance, grades we are dealing with three dimensions, first we have to find minimum bounding box in 3D that contains all borehole data. Once we found the box and agree on density2 we insert coordinates of new points in regular fashion. Namely, we divide the box into many small same size cells3 2The density or number of points should be more than we already have from boreholes. The points should be evenly distributed in the box 3The size of the cell depends on the distribution of the boreholes and agreed density 114 While building a grid one should consider also computational aspects of the whole exercise. Usually the borehole data is very large and for interpolation purposes, we need to produce a database that is even larger. Moreover, all interpolation algorithms compute distances between pairs of points, compare, sort and perform many other operations, so computational cost can be very high. In our experiments, for instance, computing only AU grades took about 10 hours of compute time on an Intel Core 2 Duo 2.66GHz machine. If one wants to use kriging method for interpolation it can take days. But in this paper we will not focus on computational aspects of the whole process IV. INVERSE DISTANCE WEIGHTING One of the widely used tools in the exploration and mining community for point interpolation is the inverse distance weighting \(IDW   for multivariate interpolation, a process of assigning values to unknown points by using values from a scattered set of known points. Here, the value at the unknown point is a weighted sum of the values of N known points. The IDW [2 is defined by the following way Given samples uk = u\(xk is to find u at the given new point x using IDW interpolation 


function u\(x N k=0 wk\(x k=0 wk\(x uk where wk\(x 1 d\(x, xk is a simple IDW weighting function, x denotes an interpolated \(new known is a given distance from known point xk to the unknown point x, N is the total number of known points used in interpolation and p is a positive real number, called the power parameter. In our settings us are the grades for metals. Thus, after building a grid \(see Section III coordinates of the new points are known \(because we chose them for different metals. Thus, by IDW interpolation one can approximate grades for the new points. Note that usually coordinates in borehole data are in some special formats 4 and can be of different scales. Therefore, distance functions should be applied with care V. PREPARING THE DATA FOR DATA MINING Data mining methods such as k-NN classification and association rules mining cannot be applied on the data as it is One way of dealing with this problem is to translate numeric values of grades into classes. After all, the main goal is not to know exact value, say of nickel, at the new position rather be able to predict which class it belongs to. During the 4To satisfy double-blind review process, exact format is not mentioned discussion on classification with mining planning \(domain experts intervals of values for metals of interest. For instance, grades of Ni were divided into five classes: NiClass1 \(if the value is less than 0.05 if the value is between 0.05 to 0.1 if the value is between 0.1 to 0.2 if the value is between 0.2 to 0.3 if the value is greater than 0.3 in similar way. Thus, we end-up having seven classes for Au 


five for Cu and five for Ni. Now the new data will consist of class information instead of exact values \(see Table II BID    Au Cu Ni RID EXID1    AUclass2 CUclass3 NiClass5 Type2 EXID1    AUclass3 CUclass3 NiClass5 Type2 EXID1    AUclass1 CUclass1 NiClass2 Type8  Table II THE BOREHOLES DATA CHANGED TO CLASSES VI. INTERPOLATE BY k-NN CLASSIFICATION In our framework, k-NN classification will classify Au Cu and Ni grades for new points by using already known borehole data as training data. The k-NN classification algorithm is defined by the following way Given a training set D and test object u = \(x, c x is the set of attribute values involved in the distance computations and c is the class label to be classified. The algorithm computes the distance dist\(u, v object u and all training objects v\(x, c only x and x values to determine the nearest-neighbour list Du. Once the nearest-neighbours list 5 is obtained, the test object is classified based on the majority class of its nearest neighbours [11 c = argmax m  xi,ci I\(m = ci where m is a class label, ci is the class for the i-th nearest neighbours, and I the value 1 if its argument is true and 0 otherwise. In our settings, for instance, if we are using 5-nearest-neighbours classification for Cu, and five nearest points \(from borehole data for Cu at the new point will be classified as CUclass2 We have applied k-NN classification and constructed a 3D model of the distribution of various metals of the actual mine. Again, because of confidentiality of the results, we are not permitted to disclose the name and location of the mine. But in Figure 2 we present actual results of k-NN classification 5The k-nearest-neighbours list contains k values 


115 Figure 2. Distribution of the AU in the interpolated box Here each colour represents the class it is assigned to Red6, for instance, represents AUclass7 which corresponds to Au content more than 8.0, which is actually of a great interest to the mining companies. On the top-left corner of the figure is the map from colour to class number7. By using the thresholding technique we have separated AUclass7 and AUclass6 \(see Figure 3 content of AU in the mine Figure 3. Distribution of AUclass6 and AUclass7 only These results show that k-NN classification can be ap6In grey-scale mode red is medium grey 7Please, ignore the number 5.5, this is because the visualisation software needs continues values plied to borehole data for interpolation. Moreover k-NN classification has wider applicability than for instance IDW because we can incorporate not only numerical attributes like coordinates into similarity metrics, but categorical values as well. This is very important, since spatial correlation is not always dominant and apparent in borehole data. Complex geological processes can produce very complex structures in the ground. But statistical methods like IDW rely only on coordinate values. For instance, if one wants to interpolate not only metal grades but also rock type distribution, then IDW cannot be used, because it works with numerical values only, but rock types have categorical values such as type2 type11 and etc. However, k-NN classification still can be applied for rock types as it can classify rock type of a new point with the majority rock type from the k-nearneighbours. In Figure 4 we show an example of k-NN classification applied to the rock types Figure 4. Rock type distribution in the mine Here again each colour represents different rock type. The image stretched into direction of the Y axis for more realistic view. We have used class label 99 for representing the points that are too far8 from known points. Interpolating such points does not make sense, because not enough information is available about their surrounding area. In Figure 4 we hide all points that have class label 99. The spherical shapes at the end of the boreholes which is due to using Euclidean distance in k-NN classification 


VII. ASSOCIATION RULES Association rules mining is one of the widely used tools in data mining. The most common algorithm for fining association rules is the Apriori algorithm [17] which finds frequent itemsets from a transaction dataset and derives association rules. The frequent itemset is an itemset such that its frequency is larger than the user specified parameter 8If the distance between unknown and closest known points is greater than some specified value we do not compute interpolation 116 called support. The confidence parameter is also can be set by the user, for generating association rules that have confidence larger than the specified value One can find complete description of Apriori algorithm in the data mining literature [11], [17], [18]. In the boreholes data, association rules can be used for finding associations of metals with or without considering rock types. We can find rules such as if Ni=Niclass1 and RID=Type11 then Cu=CUclass1 with 0.99 confidence9. When finding association rules one has to make sure that rules make sense Domain experts can interpret and refine the discovered rules Keep in mind that data mining is not always only finding something we already know, but discovering previously unknown relations and patterns After applying the Apriori algorithm to our borehole data we identified the rules/relationships known to the domain experts. But we have also found some new rules which were unknown and were very interesting to our domain experts As this is not a geology paper we will not focus of particular aspects of those rules. What we are interested in is how we can use association rules to correct some errors from k-NN classification or in general \(say for IDW interpolation results. Some of the rules we found were 1 with conf:\(1 2 CU=CUclass1 with conf:\(0.99 3 0.97 4 0.95 We do not include all the rules because they will not contribute more to understanding the work. Our goal here is to show that association rules mining can be applied to 


borehole data and we give framework how to do it, by bringing the data into useful form and most importantly how these rules help us improve interpolation results. This is discussed in Section IX VIII. CROSS-VALIDATION RESULTS In this section we present a comparison of the IDW method and k-NN classification while interpolating the borehole data. For this we performed cross-validation of the methods. Namely, from borehole data that are known extracted during drilling process records10 and remove information about grades or class labels of the metals. We then try to recover the information that was deleted by using both IDW or k-NN classification methods. We repeat this procedure ten times and compute average accuracy for recovery by each method. Note that the randomly selected records were removed from known data 9Confidence has the value from 0 to 1, the bigger the value the more confidence we have in the rule 10We have tried to select various numbers of records and obtained similar results so during the nearest-neighbours computations the same records are not included in the list of nearest-neighbours Checking with different metrics sometimes helps to identify proper distance functions to use. We have tried Euclidean distance and Chebyshev distance functions. The Chebyshev distance or L? metric between two vectors is the maximum of their differences along any coordinate dimension. Thus for any vectors p = \(p1, p2,    , pn q = \(q1, q2,    , qn dist\(p, q i pi ? qi The choice of the distance function depends on data as well as the number of attributes \(in this case n involved in the computation. If n is large \(some researchers say 6 is already too large is recommended. In our case, we are only using spatial coordinates so it does not matter which distance function we use. This was confirmed by our experiments. We present results for k-NN classification using Chebyshev distance see Table III Test run 3-nn 5-nn 10-nn 20-nn IDW 


1 17 24 39 36 22 2 15 25 30 45 27 3 14 23 28 39 25 4 18 19 29 32 21 5 9 28 37 40 26 6 11 19 33 37 21 7 17 18 32 45 26 8 13 30 28 41 20 9 13 17 33 29 22 10 11 26 41 34 20 Average 13.8 22.9 33 37.8 23 Accuracy 93.1 88.55 83.5 81.1 88.5 Table III CROSS-VALIDATION BY USING 200 RANDOMLY CHOSEN RECORDS One of the interesting results to note here is that the more near-neighbours are involved in the classification task the bigger the error. This can be explained by the fact that in order to add more neighbours you must go further from your interpolation point. The further you go from your interpolation point, the less influence they should have However, k-NN does not weight them according to their distance As one can see in Table III, classification computed by 5NN gives us almost the same accuracy as IDW, but as we go to 3-NN we obtain better accuracy than IDW. These results are very promising. Taking into account not only accuracy but the fact the k-NN classification has the potential of involving more attributes from data into the interpolation task as it works not only with numerical values, but can involve categorical values as well IX. CORRECTION BY USING RULES In this section we discuss possibility of improving interpolation results by using rules discovered during associations 117 rules mining. In Section VII we presented some of the rules we obtained. As we have mentioned in Section VII, the rules that we have presented there are not all. These rules are chosen from the list as examples to be used here for error correction of the interpolation applied to nickels \(Ni grades. Therefore all our results are concentrated on nickel We will not list all possible corrections, but will give examples for both k-NN classification and IDW methods 


Because in the cross-validation phase we randomly select some records from known data, we have correct class labels for each record that has been chosen. Thus, we can actually check whether our interpolation produced wrong result or not In one of the test runs in the k-NN classification method we have an error in the classification of Ni. One of the randomly chosen records was wrongly classified as NiClass1 instead of NiClass211. We checked other metals class labels for this point and noticed that AU has a class label AUclass4 But one can see from the association rules, particularly rule 3 \(see Section VII then with 0.97 confidence we should have Niclass2. Thus wrongly classified record can be corrected by this rule to be Niclass2 instead of Niclass1 Now, the same idea can be applied to the IDW method as well. Here again, interpolation for Ni produced a wrong result. The correct class label for the point was Niclass2, but was classified as Niclass1. Checking the AU class label for this point we noticed that it has AUclass3 label, but from association rules in Section VII, rule 4 says that if AU has a class label AUclass3, then with 0.95 confidence we should have Niclass2. So, we can correct this error as well Obviously, not all the errors can be corrected solely by association rules, but the important message is that extra analysis of the data can help us obtain better results of interpolation by each method. It is important to mention here, that this process can be automated up to a certain degree for interpolation methods to become more intelligent by taking into account more knowledge about the data. Also one should not underestimate the role of geology in the specific area of mine. This knowledge is also very important and can improve the results as well X. MATHEMATICAL MORPHOLOGY OPERATIONS Although for mining companies accurate interpolation is highly desirable, usually they are more concerned about large areas of rock types rather than small structures here and there. Thus methods which can accurately filter the results are also very useful. Having results filtered not only improves visual understanding of the mine structure, but also can be used for faster ore grades computations with techniques such as kriging, IDW or k-NN. For such a task we 


11This can happen because of very complex structure of the rock types and geology. The ways in which this occurs are beyound the scope of this paper propose using mathematical morphology operations. In this section we introduce some basic operations of mathematical morphology \(MM k-NN interpolation Mathematical morphology is a technique most frequently used in image processing, but it can be applied for analysing geometrical structures in general [19]. There are four basic operations of mathematical morphology: erosion, dilation opening and closing. These operations are usually defined on binary images. However in our case because we apply them for one rock type at the time, we can safely assume that we are dealing with binary images12. Let E be a Euclidean space or an integer grid, and A a binary image in E Erosion: The erosion of the binary image A by the structuring element B is defined by AB = {p ? E|Bp ? A where Bp is the translation of B by vector p or formally Bp = {b+ p|b ? B}, ?p ? E Dilation: The dilation of A by the structuring element B is defined by A?B  b?B Ab Opening: The opening of A by B is obtained by the erosion of A by B, followed by dilation of the resulting image by B A ?B = \(AB Closing: The closing of A by B is obtained by the dilation of A by B, followed by erosion of the resulting structure by B A B = \(A?B Intuitively, erosion removes all objects that are smaller than structuring element and makes larger objects smaller by reducing the boundary by the size of structuring element Conversely, dilation increases the boundary of all objects either small or large, by the size of the structuring element Dilation also closes any holes in the objects that are smaller than the structuring element. We are not presenting any more 


details about these operations as they are extensively covered in literature as well as on the web. We have to mention though, that in our example we are dealing with 3D structure not with the image. We use sphere centred on the origin as a structuring element. Because we have regular grid \(see Section III its six neighbours \(top, bottom, left, right, front and back 12For instance, say we use MM for rock type 6, then we can assume that in points where we have rock type 6, we have one and zero otherwise 118 XI. MATHEMATICAL MORPHOLOGY IN ACTION Let us now see how mathematical morphology operations can filter the results of interpolation as discussed in Section X. As an example we have chosen rock type 6, as we think here we can more clearly demonstrate the method Note, that if after interpolation we get more or less solid chunk of some rock type, then the effect of morphology would be minimal and will not be considered as a good demonstration example Figure 5. Distribution of the rock type 6 in the original boreholes data In Figure 5 one can see the distribution of the rock type 6 in the raw borehole data \(known points grid and interpolating with k-NN classification method \(see Section VI Figure 6. Distribution of the rock type 6 in the grid after interpolation Figure 6 shows that there are many small objects that need to be filtered. Usually, in image analysis this will be considered as a noise. Morphological opening has a small noise reduction effect. In order to understand this fully let us explain what this operation will do to our structure From Section X we know that opening is defined by erosion followed by dilation. In our case, the erosion in 3D, with spherical structuring element, will remove all points that together with their six neighbours do not have the value 6 At this stage all small \(relative to the structuring element objects will be deleted. It will shrink the boundaries of the objects which remain, but this effect will be reversed when the dilation operation is applied. The results of morphological opening can be seen in Figure 7 Figure 7. Distribution of the rock type 6 in the grid after interpolation We have now much clearer objects. It is worthwhile to mention that this process can be fully automated and mining 


experts can start their ore deposits estimations with much clearer data which is easier to deal with XII. CONCLUSION We have presented how data mining can be applied to the borehole data coming from active mine area. We are certain that data mining has a huge potential for other types of borehole data. One of the important steps in data mining is the preparation of data into useful form for various algorithms. Together with domain experts we have identified a way for transforming data to a form acceptable to k-NN classification and association rules mining algorithms Although we have shown how the k-NN classification and association rules mining techniques can be applied here this framework will open new possibilities to perform other data mining tasks to this type of data. Our experimental results are very promising in this regard as they show that we are not only able to match the accuracy of the results with IDW method used in the mining industry, but also exceed it \(93.1% accuracy was obtained by 3-NN method while IDW gave 88.5% accuracy rules as a separate analysis tool can improve not only k-NN classification results but also IDW interpolation results. This is particularly important for convincing mining companies 119 of the benefits of data mining, as with a little effort they can improve the method they are already using As we have shown in this paper, not only choosing right classification techniques can help us to improve interpolation, but more general analysis on data like association rules can contribute a lot. Thus, the more knowledge we have on the hidden relationships and patterns the more accurately you can construct an interpolation. Moreover, discovering hidden correlations not only important for this task, but also can contribute to understanding about complex geological processes that this specific area undergone. Therefore data mining, which can discover useful knowledge purely from data is of great importance and will be area of research for next generation of exploration and mining specialists Finally, we have proposed to use mathematical morphology for filtering the results of rock type interpolation. In the example given here, we have seen that it performed well in removing relatively small objects and filtering out large 


areas of interest from rock types XIII. FUTURE WORK This paper provides a framework for using data mining techniques on the borehole data. Using this framework we would like to investigate possibilities of using other classification techniques on this type of data. We mentioned that borehole data can contain more information about the area besides spatial coordinates, rock types and metal grades so classification that utilizes this extra information will be on our immediate research agenda Application of mathematical morphology provides possibilities for further research on domaining \(filtering out large areas of interest be given also to this ACKNOWLEDGEMENT I want to thank the Director of the WH Bryan Mining and Geology Research Centre, at the University of Queensland Professor Alan Bye and his PhD student Mr Younes Fadakar Alghalandis for contributing their expertise to this research This work is supported by the AuScope National Collaborative Research Infrastructure Strategy by the Australian Commonwealth, the Queensland State Government and The University of Queensland REFERENCES 1] A. G. Journel and C. J. Huijbregts, Mining geostatistics Academic Press, London, 1978 2] D. Shepard, A two-dimensional interpolation function for irregularly-spaced data, in Proc. ACM Annual Conference 1968, pp. 517524 3] C. Caruso and F. Quarta, Interpolation methods comparison Computers Math. Applications., vol. 35, pp. 109126, 1998 4] K. Gibert, M. S?nchez-Marre`, and I. Rodr?guez-Roda, Short communication: Gesconda: An intelligent data analysis system for knowledge discovery and management in environmental databases, Environ. Model. Softwares, vol. 21, no. 1 pp. 115120, 2006 5] A. R. Solow, Mapping by simple indicator kriging, Mathematical Geology, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 335352, 1986 6] M. Armstrong, Problems with universal kriging, Mathematical Geology, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 101108, 1984 7] N. Roussopoulos, S. Kelley, and F. Vincent, Nearest neighbor queries, in Proc. SIGMOD Conference, 1995, pp. 7179 


8] M. Ankerst, H.-P. Kriegel, and T. Seidl, A multistep approach for shape similarity search in image databases, IEEE Trans Knowl. Data Eng., vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 9961004, 1998 9] K. S. Beyer, J. Goldstein, R. Ramakrishnan, and U. Shaft When is nearest neighbor meaningful? in Proc. of Database Theory - ICDT 99, 7th International Conference 1999, pp. 217235 10] P. Ciaccia and M. Patella, Pac nearest neighbor queries Approximate and controlled search in high-dimensional and metric spaces, in Proc. of ICDE, 2000, pp. 244255 11] X. Wu, V. Kumar, J. Quinlan, J. Ghosh, Q. Yang, H. Motoda G. McLachlan, A. Ng, B. Liu, P. Yu, Z.-H. Zhou, M. Steinbach, D. Hand, and D. Steinberg, Top 10 algorithms in data mining, Knowledge and Information Systems, vol. 14, no. 1 pp. 137, 2008 12] X. Cheng, R. Dolin, M. O. Neary, S. Prabhakar, K. Ravikanth D. Wu, D. Agrawal, A. El Abbadi, M. Freeston, A. K. Singh T. Smith, and J. Su, Scalable access within the context of digital libraries, in Proc of ADL, 1997, pp. 7081 13] C. Faloutsos, M. Ranganathan, and Y. Manolopoulos, Fast subsequence matching in time-series databases, in Proc. of SIGMOD Conference, 1994, pp. 419429 14] F. Korn, N. Sidiropoulos, N. Faloutsos, E. Siegel, and Z. Protopapas, Fast nearest neighbor search in medical image databases, in Proc. of VLDB, 1996, pp. 215226 15] T. Kahveci and A. K. Singh, Efficient index structures for string databases, in Proc. of VLDB, 2001, pp. 351360 16] M. Ankerst, G. Kastenmuller, H.-P. Kriegel, and T. Seidl Nearest neighbor classification in 3d protein databases, in Proc of International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology, ISMB, 1999, pp. 3443 17] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases, in Proc of VLDB, 1994 pp. 487499 18] B. Liu, W. Hsu, and Y. Ma, Integrating classification and association rule mining, in Proc of KDD, 1998, pp. 8086 19] J. Serra, Image Analysis and Mathematical Morphology Orlando, FL, USA: Academic Press, Inc., 1983 120 


http://datamining.buaa.edu.cn/TopKCos.pdf 14] M. Zaki, Scalable algorithms for association mining, TKDE, vol. 12, pp. 372390, 2000 


enhance item-based collaborative filtering, in 2nd IASTED International Conference on Information and Knowledge Sharing, Scottsdale, Arizona, 2003 476 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


Basi Association Rles Basi c  Association R u les Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of events Ol dib t f ilt t O n l y d escr ib e se t s o f s i mu lt aneous even t s Cannot describe patterns that iterate over time e g  itemset a  0  b  0  g    Eg If you sense higher data rates on the downlink than normal AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 20 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


