Abstract -Web based learning systems provides huge volume of educational content to learners. However, a single learner might not be interested in learning all the contents delivered. To encourage learners of varying skill sets and to develop learning interests web recommendation system is needed for web based learning. This paper focuses on providing recommendations to learners as well as web masters to improve overall effectiveness of web based teaching and learning. This work deals with analysis of web log data and development of recommendation framework using web usage mining techniques like upper approximation based rough set clustering using k nearest neighbors, dynamic support pruned all k-th order Markov model and all k-th order association rule mining by dynamic  frequent \(k+1 using Apriori. The goal of this integrated approach is to make accurate recommendations for learning management systems with reduced state space complexity Keywords- Learning management systems, Markov Model, Web recommendation, Rough Sets I. INTRODUCTION The contribution of World Wide Web in education domain is enormous. It is a dynamic data source whose contents are updated world-wide for every second. Elearning is the process of learning such materials from web However, e-learning has several benefits in terms of resource sharing, infrastructure, man power, huge availability of materials etc., To overcome all these drawbacks and to encourage web based learning recommendation systems are essential. This paper proposes web recommendation model through web usage mining Discovering and extracting useful knowledge from web data is called web mining. Web mining is essential to improve the usability of web. Web mining is divided into web content mining, web structure mining and web usage mining based on type of data used for mining process. Web usage mining analyses web usage information recorded in log files as server log, client log, proxy server log, error log access log etc., The web server of e-learning portal records details about every action performed by learners on learning website in its access log It includes all the activities of elearners like click-stream sequence, data of access, size of files downloaded, time spent by each user on page, referrer 


URL, IP address, User ID etc., Web usage mining plays a vital role in development of web recommendation systems Other applications of web recommendation system includes Cross- marketing of products in e-commerce to improve sales In Internet advertisements, a blooming field to attract users having special interests on specific products To design adaptive web servers, that dynamically changes its structure and organization of hyperlinks according to current access patterns In search engines, to deliver materials based on other similar searches, irrespective of contents of web pages In personalization on specific user group to improve effectiveness of web site To improve user friendliness by providing shortcuts II. RELATED WORK Several works have been performed in this area using various web mining techniques, each having its own benefits and limitations. The motivation of proposed work is to achieve good recommendation accuracy with less computational and space complexity. Yang [13] proposed a sequential pattern mining approach for personalization in online learning.  In that work, relevant patterns are identified only by association, even least constrained pages are also considered for recommendation phase, it affects recommendation accuracy. In the proposed work, it is suggested to use strict consecutive sequences for recommendations. Devanshu Dhyani  has developed a general prediction approach using Markov process resulting in high computational complexity but good accuracy was achieved [2]. Hence in the proposed work it is suggested to reduce the data set by clustering before finding recommendations. In 2009, various pre-processing techniques essential for any web usage mining application are suggested in the work [10] . Bamshad Mobasher [1] has developed personalization systems using graphs and A Web Usage Mining based Recommendation Model for 


Learning Management Systems A.Anitha1, N.Krishnan2 1Centre for Information Technology and Engineering, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University Tirunelveli  627 012 Tamil Nadu,INDIA 2 Centre for Information Technology and Engineering, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University Tirunelveli  627 012 1e-mail:ulagu_m@yahoo.com 978-1-4244-5967-4/10/$26.00 2010 IEEE multiple support association rule mining. Though good accuracy is achieved, there exists complexity in maintaining link structure of graph and difficulty in setting multiple thresholds. Khalil, in his work on prediction of next web page access has integrated association rules and Markov models and achieved good prediction accuracy with high state space complexity. It is due to summing up of all low order states while applying all k-th order Markov model Hence, in the proposed work the main objective is to eliminate all these drawbacks and to provide better recommendations for e-learning systems III. METHODOLOGY A. Data Preprocessing and Transaction Identification The access log for e-learning portal contains all the information about its usage. However, for the proposed work all those data are not necessary. Hence pre-processing is needed to bring only relevant usage information and to represent them in format suitable for the mining task. Only the fields such as IP address, URL and time are retrieved from access log by data cleaning. During pre-processing transaction is identified as a sequence of page views made in a user session. Using these details, interest of  learners is efficiently identified B.  Learning Pattern Recognition The similar patterns regarding learning interest are identified by a data mining approach called clustering and a mathematical concept rought sets. Clustering is a technique used to discover interesting patterns based on the principle that, inter cluster similarity is low and inter cluster similarity is high. In this work it is proposed to apply rough set theory with clustering in order to reduce computational complexity. Rough set  is a mathematical concept that  deals with uncertainty and vagueness. It is defined by two sets 


namely lower approximation and upper approximation. The lower approximation of a set contains all elements that are subsets of a set and upper approximation of a set contains elements that have non-empty intersection with it. The equivalence relation R in this work is defined as, aRb>0.4 where 0.4 is the similarity threshold. The equivalence relation is used to define equivalence classes At the initial stage, equivalence class in constructed. Then smaller neighborhood is identified by a threshold. The elements on smaller neighborhood are upper approximated iteratively until results of two consecutive upper approximations are same. The resultant equivalence classes represent the clusters of learning sequences. The sequence in the clusters are mutually disjoint Fig 1. Proposed Web Recommendation Framework The highlights of this approach are No iterative relocation of data objects. Only successive merging is done. This approach reduces computational complexity Similarity measure involves only simple Boolean operations Reduction in cluster validity by possibility factor is overcome by considering nearest k neighbors No need to retain or update the data structures after framing initial clusters. Memory efficiency is improved Good clustering validity is achieved with reduced computational complexity The resultant clusters are similar learning sequences. These patterns are useful for recommendation systems C.  Sequential Pattern mining Markov models are one of the sequential pattern mining techniques used for next page access prediction These models in general can achieve good prediction accuracy as they consider consecutive and sequential page accesses. The number of history pages considered for prediction process determines the order of Markov model The method proposed in this work is a dynamic support pruned all k-th order Markov model. The dynamic approach generates low order states only when needed.  Hence there is low state space complexity. To achieve desired 


recommendation accuracy, the longest possible learning sequence is considered for finding matching pattern. If there is poor coverage, in order to retain recommendation accuracy, next lower order states are considered for prediction process. The k-th order Markov model considers latest k pages for predicting \(k+1 defined by conditional probability of visiting page Pi next from state k. It is the ratio of  number of occurrences of latest k pages to the number of occurrences of latest k pages and next page Pi together.  By the proposed all k-th order approach if the longest possible learning sequence has poor coverage, then next lower order is considered for prediction This process is repeated to predict the highest probable page to be accessed next. The predicted page is recommended to learners during learning process When Markov model fails to predict pages, then a least constrained approach that deals with non-consecutive and sequential patterns called association rule mining is applied to make recommendations. The frequent item sets are generated only when needed. The clustering of learning sequences before applying sequential pattern mining reduces ambiguous predictions by association rule mining If still any ambiguity arises, it is resolved by calculating statistical parameters specified in Section 4 IV. RECOMMENDATION EVALUATION AND METRICS The predicted page is the one having highest chance to be accessed next based on the learning behavior of active learner and learning characteristics of other learners with similar interest. The same strategy is applied to a repeating user by using his previous learning sequences The pages pruned from discovered patterns by sequential mining are recommended as least referenced pages. Such pages need more attention of web masters for content modification. Hence such pages are recommended to improve teaching effectiveness Fig 2.  Statistical Analysis Results & Recommendation Accuracy Various metrics used for evaluating recommendation effectiveness are as follows Tavg = Total time spent on all pages by all learners per day Total no. of learners X Total no of pages visited   [1 Havg=  Sum of hits made by all learners on all pages Total no. of learners X Total no of pages visited       [2 


Savg = Total number of sessions for the period considered Number of days under analysis                 [3 Racc= Number of correct recommendations Total number of recommendations                         [4 Where Tavg is the average time spent per user per page Havg is the average number of hits per page Savg is the average number of learning sessions  per day Racc is the percentage of correct recommendations made All these parameters are evaluated for the sessions considered for a period of 1 month in an e-learning portal The results of this analysis before and after recommendations are depicted in the Fig 2. Moreover, the academic achievement of learners who followed recommended pages are also compared in Fig 3 Fig 3. Effective Learning through Recommendation V. CONCLUSION In this paper, a good recommendation system is proposed by integrating efficiency of three web mining techniques namely clustering, markov model and association rule mining. In addition some statistical parameters are also evaluated for better understanding about usage of e-learning portal. Application of various web usage mining techniques at different stages of this model, can improve both learning and teaching effectiveness. The experimental results represent the impact of recommendations in improving web based teaching and learning effectiveness REFERENCES 1] Bamshad Mobasher, Honghua Dai, Tao Luo, Miki Nakagawa Effective Personalization based on Association Rule Discovery from web usage data,ACM workshop on Web Information and Data management , Nov 2001 2] Devansh Dhyani, Sourav S Bhowmic, Wee keong Ng,Modelling and predicting web page accesses using markov Processes, Proceedings of 14-th international workshop on Database and Expert System applications,IEEE ,2003 3]    Faten    Khalil    Jiuyong    Li Hua    Wang Integrating Recommendation  Models  for  Improved   Web Page  Prediction Accuracy,  Conferences  in  Research  and Practice  in  Information Technology \(CRPIT 4] Ioannis Kazanidis, Stavros Valsamidis, Proposed Framework 


for Data Mining in E-learning: The case of Open E-class ISBN:978-972-8924-97-3,2009 , pp 254-258 5] Jaideep Srivastava, Robert Cooley et al.,Web Usage Mining:Discovery and Applications of Usage patterns from Web Data, ACM SIGKDD, Vol 1, Issue 2, Jan 2000, pp 12-22 6] Khribi, M.K., Jemni M., Nasraoui O ,Automatic Recommendation for E-learning Personalization based on Web Usage mining techniques and information retrieval, Educational Technology and Society, I2\(4 7] Mei-Ling Shyu, Choochart Haruechaiyasak, Collaborative Filtering by Mining Association Rules from User Access Sequences,Proceedings of 2005 International workshop on challenges in web information retrieval and integration, 0-76952414-1/05,IEEE, 2005 8] Nasraoui, O. Soliman, M. Saka, E. Badia, A.Germain,  R A Web Usage Mining Framework for Mining Evolving User Profiles in  Dynamic  Web  Sites,IEEE  transaction   on Knowledge  and data engineering,Volume 20,Issue 2, Feb 2008 pp. 202-215 9]  Pasi   Franti,Olli   Virmajoki,   and   Ville   Hautamaki    Fast Agglomerative Clustering Using a k Nearest Neighbor graph,IEEE transaction on pattern analysis and machine intelligence.Vol 28,No11. November 2006, pp 1875-1881 10] Sathiya Moorthi V, Murali Bhaskaran V, Data preparation Techniques for Web Usage Mining in World Wide Web  an approach, International Journal of Recent Trends in Engineering Vol 2, No 4, November 2009 11] Sen Guo, Yongshen Liang et al.,Association Rule Retrieved from Web log based on Rough Set Theory, Fourth International conference on Fuzzy systems and Knowledge discovery, IEEE 2007 12] Siripom chimphlee,Naomie Salim,Mohd Salihin Bin Ngadiman, Witcha,Surat ,Rough Sets Clustering and  Markov Model for Web Access Prediction ,Proceedings of post graduate annual seminar 2006, pp. 470-474 13] Ying Cong, Changxu Ji, Application of Web-based Data Mining in Personalized online learning system, Proceedings of Wuhan International Conference on E-Business,pp150-156 


To be preserved, an association rule must satisfy two measures The support of an itemset A, denoted s\(A the frequency of the itemset A among the set of transactions T \(users history items in the context s\(A The con?dence of a rule X ? B, denoted c\(X ? B is defined by: c\(X ? B X?B s\(X Association rules are mined using the Apriori algorithm 15]. The liked and disliked items are first distinguished in the user history using their item ratings. This is done in order to gain a global view of the liked and disliked items For ratings between 1 and 5, values strictly lower than 4 are considered to represent disliked items. On the other hand values equal to or higher than 4 represent items that fit the users taste. Thus, items can be labeled with two values l like dislike users who have rated some of these items, we can obtain the extraction of the rules This module doesnt depend on a particular user. The computation is conducted generally for all users and is 6The insertion of multiple profiles under false identities in order to promote or denote the recommendation of a particular item performed periodically 2 aims at personalizing the association rules for the user The association rules are filtered according to the user by applying the following rules in the following order a of items contained in the users history \(this is a strong rule which can be relaxed  see Sect. V b the head because there is no sense in recommending an item he has already consulted c because there is no sense in recommending to the user an item he will not appreciate d as a consequence of \(b c Example: Let us consider movie recommendation Given a user u who rated and liked the movies F1, F3 and 


F5 denoted F l1, F l3 and F l5. The following rules are obtained r1 : {F l1, F l3} ? {F l5 r2 : {F l1, F l2} ? {F l4 r3 : {F l3, F l5} ? {F d6 r4 : {F l1, F l5} ? {F l3, F l7 By the application of \(b d kept. The rule r2 is also not kept by the application of \(a r3 is not kept after passing \(c d r?4 : {F l1, F l5} ? {F l7} because of \(b rule r?4 This result is justified because r1 leads to the recommendation of an item already consulted by the user, which is useless. r2 doesnt fit the user because he hasnt consulted all of the items contained in the body so we cannot make any conclusions. The recommendation of r3 is not accurate because the item is predicted as disliked. Finally, we can extract rule r4 which results in a possible recommendation the item F7 C. Semantic-Based Module This module is based on an ontology. An ontology is an explicit specification of a shared conceptualization [23]. It is used to formally describe domains by means of concepts and properties. Typically, concepts are classes and properties are relations characterizing the concepts. A property has a domain and a range. For example, the domain of the property hasActor\(Film,Actor Instances of concepts and properties are called individuals7 In the following, we denote C as the set of the concepts of the the ontology, and Rel as the set of properties \(relations We consider that an item is characterized by the concepts hes related to. Moreover, each concept has its proper influence on each user. This is why, the interest of a user 7The terms instance and individual are used without distinction 472 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications in an item is defined by his interest in the concepts related to the item. The user preference for a concept over another is learned by analyzing his profile. We do not explain this process in this paper Once the association rules concerning the user are identified, we use the ontology to compute the interests of each item in the head. This helps to refine the obtained results from the previous module. Indeed, before applying 


the semantic module, the recommendation is issued from collaborative filtering. While in some cases these recommendations can fit the user, it is possible that they dont suit his other interests. This semantic module performs the required adjustments and takes into account the user as a unique entity The prediction of the interest of these features of item f uses the following parameters for the user u the users valuations for the items which have at least one shared feature with f the number of occurrences of each feature of f among those rated by u This is done in two steps: the computation of the instance interest and then the computation of the concept interest 1 Definition: Given a user u, the interest of u for an instance i is a prediction based on the past valuations of u for the items connected to i by a certain relation R ? Rel An instance i is connected to 0 to n items in the users history. Thus, 0 to n valuations related to this instance are obtained. The interest of i is then estimated according to the valuations connected with it. This is done by computing the median of these valuations. Actually, median allows one to avoid extreme and unusual values which add some noise when computing a basic average of a set of values instanceInterest\(u, i median\({eval\(u, f f, i 1 where eval\(u, f f 2 Definition: Given a user u, the interest of u according to a concept c for an item f is based on the instance interests of the individuals of the concept c connected to f by a certain relation R ? Rel conceptInterestc\(u, f   i?{i? |?R?Rel R\(f,i i instanceInterest\(u, i ratioocc\(u, i   


i?{i? |?R?Rel R\(f,i i ratioocc\(u, i 1 2 where ratioocc\(u, i instance i among the instances of the same concept in the users history D. Frequency Module This module aims at detecting the frequent instances and the frequent associations of instances. Indeed, such a frequency depicts an important interest of the user for the concerned instances. Consequently, it is relevant to recommend items with these characteristics to the user 1 considers the profile of the user. It aims at detecting the most important features of interest for the user Regardless of the estimated interest of an instance for a user, we consider that if the user has in his history a significant percentage of items which have as a feature that particular instance, the interest of this instance is significant Unlike the previous computation, this computation ignores the users ratings for the items which have the instance as a feature Example: A user who has watched 80% of the films interpreted by the actor Tom Hanks should get the recommendation of the other 20% he has not seen even if some of the films of Tom Hanks in his history are badly rated 2 case with frequent instances described above, this part of the module deals not only with the profile of the user, but also with the set of items. It aims at discovering frequent associations between the features in the user history. It detects the features that often occur together in order to discover new recommendations. To achieve this, frequent sets of the instances related to the items in the users history are computed. Then, items with such instances are recommended to the user Example: A possible frequent association is the actor Johnny Depp and the director Tim Burton. A user who is interested in these two instances will be recommended the other films related to them E. Recommendation and explanation 


As explained in Sect. II, the collaborative and the semantic modules are in cascade. Consequently, the result is a set of recommendations rec1 which is mixed with the recommendations of the frequency module rec2 such that rec1 is presented before rec2 to the user. This order can be inverted according to user feedback. Concerning the explanation of the recommendations, this is done by highlighting the instances which have highly scored the interest of the user for the items of rec1, and by highlighting the frequent instances in the items of rec2 F. Example In this section, we illustrate the recommendation process for any user u, in the movie domain. We will simplify to preserve the clarity of the example 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 473 Table I EXTRACT OF THE PROFILE OF THE USER u Film Rating Transformation Psycho 5 Psychol Rear Window 4 Rear Windowl Four Weddings and a Funeral 4 Four Weddings and a Funerall Monty Pythons Life of Brian 5 Monty Pythons Life of Brianl Carrie 3 Carried Stephen Kings The Langoliers 1 Stephen Kings The Langoliersd Pulp Fiction 4 Pulp Fictionl Dr. Strangelove 2 Dr. Strangeloved A Clockwork Orange 1 A Clockwork Oranged Let us consider u who has rated the movies in Tab. I Collaborative Filtering Module: Let us assume that the association rule mining result is r1 : {Psychol, Pulp Fictionl} ? {The Shiningl r2 : {Pulp Fictionl,Monty Pythons Life of Brianl Monty Python and the Holy Graill r3 : {Monty Python and the Holy Graill, Jurassic Parkl Indiana Jones and the Last Crusadel According to the rules introduced in Sect III-B2, we only keep the association rules r1 and r2 Semantic-Based Module: In this step, the interest of the user for each movie in the head of each rule from the last module is computed. The concerned movies are The Shining and Monty Python and the Holy Grail For The Shining, we obtain the following interest re 


sults conceptInterestActor \(u, TheShining conceptInterestDirector \(u, TheShining conceptInterestWriter \(u, TheShining conceptInterestGenre \(u, TheShining Unlike the prediction of the previous modules, it seems that The Shining is not a good recommendation for u Actually, this film shares its director with Dr. Strangelove and A Clockwork Orange which are negatively rated by u Moreover, it has a writer in common with Carrie and The Langoliers which are also movies disliked by u. The same reasoning is made about the concepts Actor and Genre Concerning Monty Python and the Holy Grail, the interests by concept are conceptInterestActor \(u, HolyGrail conceptInterestDirector \(u, HolyGrail conceptInterestWriter \(u, HolyGrail conceptInterestGenre \(u, HolyGrail This recommendation is a good one. The film shares its actors, writers and director with Monty Pythons Life of Brian which is highly rated by the user. The recommendation is thus justified Figure 3. Extract of the movie ontology Frequency Module: Let us assume that the user rated 60% of Alfred Hitchcocks films \(in Tab. I, Psycho and Rear Window are some of them recommended to u IV. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION A. Ontology Description For the experimentation, we built the ontology manually see Fig. 3 IMDB8. We focused only on a set of data which led to the concepts Film, Person, Actor, Director, Writer and Genre The connections between these concepts are Each movie is related to a certain number of persons who can be actors, directors or writers but it can also be related to other movies \(Example: Free Willy 2: The Adventure Home and Free Willy 3: The Rescue are related A person and a movie have a genre \(Action, Adventure Animation, Children, Comedy, Crime, etc B. Experimentation and Evaluation 


We use a subset of the dataset provided by MovieLens, the recommender system of GroupLens Research. The dataset contains a set of users, the set of items they have evaluated with a rating between 1 \(for the least liked for the most liked framework, we deal with a set of 86 movies, 934 users and 13 053 ratings. The dataset contains 3593 actors, 77 directors, 275 writers and 17 genres Using a 65% confidence and a 5% support, association rule mining resulted in 1472 rules after running the collaborative module. We evaluated the results obtained from the system by eighteen 20-50-year-old volunteers. The evaluation consisted exclusively in explicit valuations \(ratings 8http://www.imdb.com 474 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications Figure 4. Users evaluation of the system between 1 and 5 rated at the beginning between 11 and 31 films. For each recommended item, the user rates it as liked or disliked. If an item is rated as liked, the recommendation is considered as accurate. Otherwise, the system explains the reason why this item is recommended. The user can then agree with this explanation or not. Explanation of recommendation can be effective in convincing users in their appreciation of the items [24]. In our approach, the explanation aims at discovering if the detected patterns in the recommended item are accurate or not. Let us consider the following explanation in the recommendation of a film: This film may interest you because you frequently watched Tim Burtons films with Johnny Depp. If the user agrees with the explanation, that means that the association \(Tim Burton - Johnny Depp relevant but this particular film do not appeal to the user Otherwise, we consider that the detected association was purely a coincidence. In this case, the system will be able to ignore this pattern for this user in the future The results of this evaluation are depicted on Fig. 4. We can see that 84,9% of the recommendations satisfy the users Concerning the recommendations rated as disliked, 59,4% of the explanations are approved by users. Finally, 93,9% of the recommendations are satisfying or approved An average of 5 recommendations is obtained by running the collaborative and the semantic-based modules \(which is 


acceptable due to the low number of movies  86  in the dataset frequency module. This difference is due to the fact that the cascading modules \(collaborative and semantic-based are limited by the unique usage of the ratings to compute the association rules. The frequency module, on the other hand, is based on a statistical analysis of the item contents Consequently, it does not suffer from the sparsity of the user rating matrix like the previous modules The collaborative module results in some recommendations which are not liked by users. Fortunately, such recommendations are eliminated by the semantic-based module Other recommendations are eliminated by the semanticbased module though they appeal to users. We explain this because the concerned items dont share any features with the ones in the users history. This is why, we aim at introducing a semantic similarity measure to alleviate this problem \(see Sect. V module recommendations and 58,1% of the explanations of the disliked recommendations, satisfy the users. We can conclude that the combination of all the modules results in better recommendations V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In our work, we propose a hybrid recommender system that combines collaborative filtering and semantic analysis of the items. The approach is based on many modules that refine the rules which progressively lead to a recommendation. A process targeting users with various interests is described. First, the collaborative filtering step is achieved using association rule mining which is a flexible way to classify the user. His history is then used to make the results more adapted to him. The semantic module aims at refining the recommendation issued from the rules. Finally, a frequency module is used to discover other items of interest for the user. Using distinct modules allows us to explain the recommendations to the user The results we have obtained from the evaluation experiments are promising. The combination of the collaborative and semantic modules improves the quality of the recommendations and the frequency module adds new ones. 93,9 of the recommendations are satisfying or approved In near future, we aim at defining the approach to learn 


the user profile in order to adapt the combination of the recommendation modules. We also plan to improve the semantic module by defining the semantic similarity between instances [25], [26]. Thus, when computing the interest by instance, those which are semantically similar to the current instance can be used when the instance is not present in the users history This similarity could also be used during the personalization of the association rules. The personalization rule \(a which consists in only keeping the rules which have a body composed of items contained in the users history, can be relaxed if the items violating \(a the items in the users history. The advantage of the semantic similarity is that it can be computed off-line which does not slow down the recommendation process Another improvement we want to introduce is the use of implicit data collected and based on the users behavior e.g. his search history, the time he spent looking at an item and his navigational patterns. This will help to increase the knowledge about the user and, in turn, lead to a better understanding of his expectations Finally, we plan to experiment the framework on other domains to confirm the domain-independence of the system REFERENCES 1] G. Adomavicius and A. Tuzhilin, Toward the next generation of recommender systems: A survey of the state-of-the-art and 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 475 possible extensions, IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng., vol. 17 no. 6, pp. 734749, 2005 2] R. Burke, Hybrid recommender systems: Survey and experiments, User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 331370, 2002 3] K. Lang, Newsweeder: Learning to filter netnews, in Proceedings of the 12th International Machine Learning Conference \(ML, 1995 4] M. J. Pazzani and D. Billsus, Content-based recommendation systems, in The Adaptive Web, P. Brusilovsky, A. Kobsa, and W. Nejdl, Eds., 2007, vol. 4321, pp. 325341 5] P. Resnick, N. Iacovou, M. Suchak, P. Bergstrom, and J. Riedl Grouplens: An open architecture for collaborative filtering of netnews, in Proceedings of ACM 1994 Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, Chapel Hill, North 


Carolina, 1994, pp. 175186 6] B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, and J. Reidl, Itembased collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms, in Proceedings of the 10th international conference on World Wide Web \(WWW 295 7] B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, and J. Riedl, Analysis of recommendation algorithms for e-commerce, in Proceedings of the 2nd ACM conference on Electronic commerce \(EC Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA, 2000, pp. 158167 8] M. Balabanovic and Y. Shoham, Fab: content-based, collaborative recommendation, Commun. ACM, vol. 40, no. 3, pp 6672, 1997 9] D. Billsus and M. J. Pazzani, User modeling for adaptive news access, User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction vol. 10, no. 2-3, pp. 147180, 2000 10] M. J. Pazzani, A framework for collaborative, content-based and demographic filtering, Artif. Intell. Rev., vol. 13, no. 5-6 pp. 393408, 1999 11] S. Castagnos, A. Brun, and A. Boyer, Probabilistic association rules for item-based recommender systems, in Proceedings of the Fourth Starting AI Researchers Symposium STAIRS 12] W. Lin, Association rule mining for collaborative recommender systems, Masters thesis, Faculty of the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, 2000 13] J. J. Sandvig, B. Mobasher, and R. Burke, Robustness of collaborative recommendation based on association rule mining, in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM conference on Recommender systems \(RecSys 14] B. Mobasher, H. Dai, T. Luo, and M. Nakagawa, Effective personalization based on association rule discovery from web usage data, in Proceedings of the 3rd international workshop on Web information and data management \(WIDM Georgia, USA, 2001, pp. 915 15] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases, in Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data, New York, NY, USA, 1993, pp. 207 216 16] B. Liu, W. Hsu, and Y. Ma, Integrating classification and association rule mining, in Knowledge Discovery and Data 


Mining, New York City, New York, USA, Aug. 1998, pp 8086 17] Y. Blanco-Fernandez, J. J. P. Arias, A. Gil-Solla, M. R Cabrer, M. L. Nores, J. G. Duque, A. F. Vilas, R. P. D Redondo, and J. B. Munoz, A flexible semantic inference methodology to reason about user preferences in knowledgebased recommender systems, Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 21 no. 4, pp. 305320, 2008 18] S. E. Middleton, H. Alani, N. R. Shadbolt, and D. C. D Roure, Exploiting synergy between ontologies and recommender systems, in Semantic Web Workshop 2002 At the Eleventh International World Wide Web Conference, 2002 19] M. Zanker and M. Jessenitschnig, Case-studies on exploiting explicit customer requirements in recommender systems User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, vol. 19, no 1-2, pp. 133166, 2009 20] N. Ducheneaut, K. Partridge, Q. Huang, B. Price, M. Roberts E. H. Chi, V. Bellotti, and B. Begole, Collaborative filtering is not enough? experiments with a mixed-model recommender for leisure activities, in Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on User Modeling, Adaptation, and Personalization \(UMAP 21] H. Nguyen and P. Haddawy, The decision-theoretic interactive video advisor, in Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence \(UAI 494501 22] B. Mobasher, Data mining for web personalization, in The Adaptive Web, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science P. Brusilovsky, A. Kobsa, and W. Nejdl, Eds. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2007, vol. 4321, ch. 3, pp. 90135 23] T. R. Gruber, A translation approach to portable ontology specifications, Knowl. Acquis., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 199220 1993 24] N. Tintarev and J. Masthoff, The effectiveness of personalized movie explanations: An experiment using commercial meta-data, in Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems AH 25] R. Albertoni and M. D. Martino, Asymmetric and contextdependent semantic similarity among ontology instances Journal on Data Semantics, vol. 10, pp. 130, 2008 26] X. Jin and B. Mobasher, Using semantic similarity to 


enhance item-based collaborative filtering, in 2nd IASTED International Conference on Information and Knowledge Sharing, Scottsdale, Arizona, 2003 476 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


Basi Association Rles Basi c  Association R u les Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of events Ol dib t f ilt t O n l y d escr ib e se t s o f s i mu lt aneous even t s Cannot describe patterns that iterate over time e g  itemset a  0  b  0  g    Eg If you sense higher data rates on the downlink than normal AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 20 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


