An Improved Algorithm with Key Attributes Constraints for Mining Interesting Association Rules in Network Log  Jin Kezhong  College of Physics and Electronic Information Engineering Wenzhou University Wenzhou, China jsj_jkz@wzu.edu.cn Wu chengwen College of Physics and Electronic Information Engineering Wenzhou University Wenzhou, China jsj_wcw@wzu.edu.cn   Abstract Computer logs are generated by application activities network accesses and system audit, which are important data 
sources for user pattern mining computer forensic analysis, intrusion detection analysis and outlier detection. Algorithms for mining association rule are useful methods to find interesting rules implied in large computer log data. But existing algorithms which based on confidence and support are unfit for mining computer log data, many uninteresting rules will be generated and useful rules will be shadowed. To solve this problem, the concept of key attributes of network log data is introduced, and an algorithm with key attributes constraints for mining interesting association rules in network log data is designed. Experimental result shows that the number of uninteresting rules can be reduced effectively and the validity of rules which mined are improved Keywords key attribute 
 association rule network log data mining I   I NTRODUCTION  With the rapidly development of computer technologies and widely applying of network t echnologies, tremendous amount of data is accumulated in computer applications, such as scientific data, marketing data, financial data and network log. How to efficiently analyze these data and extract patterns representing knowledge implicitly stored in data source becomes more and more important. Although simple statistical techniques and 
machine learning for data analysis were developed long ago advance techniques for intelligent data analysis are not yet mature. Data mining is a new generation of information processing technology, which is the process of extracting previously unknown and useful information from a large data source. It has been extensively applied to a wide variety of applications like sales analysis, healthcare, manufacturing, financial analysis etc. A number of studies have been made on efficient data mining methods and the relevant applications Computer log, which includes records related to whatever activities occurring on an information system. It is a greatly important data source for finding intrusion activities, computer forensic, reporting usage statuses of system resources 1 
But computer log usually is tremendous and hard to analyze by traditional methods to find useful information implied. The methods of data mining can extract interesting \(nontrivial, implicit, previously unknown and potentially useful knowledge from huge amount of data. So the methods of data mining are fit for analyzing log data to extract implicit information automatically Association rules mining can be used to find correlativity of different log records, and sequence pattern analyzing can be used to find time sequence relationship between different log records. Outlier analyzing can be used to find outlier which different from normal patterns II  P ROBLEM S 
TATEMENTS  A  Association Rule Mining Among the data mining methods, association rules discovery might be the most studied one. It was introduced by R Agrawal and his partners 2-4 Given a set of transactions, where each transaction is a set of items, an association rule is expressed as XY   where X and Y are sets of items. The intuitive meaning of such a rule is that transactions of the data source which contain X  
tend to contain Y An example of an association rule is: 25 of transactions that contain beer also contain diapers; 5% of all transactions contain both itemsŽ. Here, 25% is called the confidence of the rule, and 5% is the support of the rule The procedure of mining association rules can be decomposed into two sub steps First, find all combination of items whose support is greater than minimum_support Call these combination frequent item sets Second, use the frequent item sets to generate the desired rules. The general idea is that, if ABCD and AB 
are frequent item sets, then we can determine whether the rule  A BCD   holds by computing the ratio   r support ABCD support AB  1 The rule holds only if ___________________________________ 978-161284 109-0 11 26.00 ©201 1 IEEE  


_ r minimum confidence  2 Most existing works focus on finding the association rules among all items in the database that satisfy user-specified minimum_confidence and support To reduce the number of frequent item sets and times of database scanning, some algorithms 5-8 are also proposed, such as AIS, SETM, PARTITION FUP, Max-Miner, FUFIA, etc. But to the first sub step, Apriori 2 is still used to generate candidate item sets B  Drawback of Apriori in Network Log Mining In practice, people are often interested in finding association rules include only some specified items rather than all items in a query. Meanwhile, based on the search results in former queries, we need to change the minimum confidence  and support to obtain suitable number of rules. So we tend to make several consecutive queries with different interested items, minimum confidence and support for potential rules After the rules set is generated, pe ople have to identify the interesting rules from the large rules include many uninteresting rules In network log mining, because records of log may has many different items and the or iginal data source is very large using the existing association rule mining algorithms will have the following drawbacks First, many irrelevant or uninteresting rules will be generated. For example, we choice network log data as the data source to mining association rules. In a log record, some fields such as protocol, source destination, src_port, dest_port src_bytes, dest_bytes, state and flag are included, shown as in Table I. When using Aproiri to mine association rules, we find some rules such as _ 200 s rc bytes flag SF   in the results. But as we know, the number of bytes of a host send to the destination is irrelevant to network connection flag, so it is an uninteresting rule. In this scenario, we get a lot of association rules for all item sets in only partial of which we are really interested. These uninteresting rules will puzzle log analyzers Second, for generating the candidate frequent item sets, the whole log database and all items of log records need to be scanned several times. Its very inefficient in considering the big overhead of reading the large database even though only partial items are interesting. In practice, the weight of different fields of log record is different, its not necessary to scan all fields several times  TABLE I N ETWORK L OG R ECORD  field value protocol ftp-data source 18 destination 129.7.1.9 src_port 22 dest_port 45213 src_bytes 212 dest_bytes 0 state SF flag L Considering these drawbacks described above, we present an improved association rule mining algorithm that can efficiently discover the more interesting association rules involving specified fields of record III  T HE D EFINITION OF K EY A TTRIBUTE  Records of log usually are composed with some different fields. These fields, such as time stamp, source and destination IP address, port number and other information, express the different information about computer system status or network connection. The weight of different field in record is different Some fields are key attributes of log records, and other fields are auxiliary. In the network log, every record represents a network connection, which includes some fields shown as in Table I. But as we know, not all the fields are important to describe a network connection activity. In fact, we can describe a network connection by five-tuples, denote as   destPort srcPort destIP srcIP timestamp      We call these fields included in five-tuples as key attributes 9  Definition 1 let     2 1 n u u u U  be a set of attributes which included in a log record F is the set of functional dependency between different fields. For any subset U K  if U  is completely functional dependent on K we call K is the set of key attribute, for any K k   k is a key attribute So, we can use the key attribute to estimate whether an association rule is interestin g or not. The estimation expressed as A    Ir fIrsrcr  3 In this expression s\(r is the minimum support of association rule r  c\(r is the minimum confidence 1 if  rule includes key attributes 0 otherwise A r I    012 4 When a generated rule satisfies s\(r  c\(r and I A r its I A  1, we regard it as an interesting rule. Otherwise it will be discarded IV  A LGORITHM WITH K EY A TTRIBUTES C ONSTRAINTS  According to the definition of key attribute, an Improved Algorithm with Key attribute Constraints \(IAKC\signed for mining interesting rules in log data. This algorithm tends to mine association rules no t only constrained with minimum_confidence and support but also constrained with the set of key attributes. It means when a new rule is generated, it will contain at least one key attribute, those rules without any key attribute, which usually is an uninteresting rule, will be excluded from the result Algorithm: IAKC Input: log database D the set of key attribute K  minimum_confidence  c  minimum_support s  Output: the set of rules include key attribute 


1 1 1 large 1  1 2:  for 2   3 apriori_gen   4:      for each transaction include in database  5 subset   k kk Tk L itemset kL k CL TD CCT     015    6:          for every item of  7   8     9:   end 10:  for every frequent k-itemsets    then generate subset 11:  for every  T kK k cC c count LcCccounts l if l K if       015   support_count   then support_count  12:  generate a rule as     13:  insert the new rule into results R 14:  return R l c lc s       V  P ERFORMANCE E VALUATIONS  For evaluate the performance of this improved algorithm in log mining, we compare it with the algorithm of Aproiri. The data source  is log data that activities of network connections between Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and Internet during thirty days are recorded We choice protocol, local host , remote host, src_port and dest_port as the set of key attribute, then running two algorithms with minimum confidence as 95% and minimum support as 1%, 5% and10%. The result is shown as Figure 1 Under the fixed minimum_confidence, with the decline of minimum_support, the number of rules generated by Aproiri is increased fast, but the number of rules generated by the improved algorithm with key attribute constraints is increased smoothly. In log mining, the source data is so large and every log record is in same format, many rules will be generated in association rule mining. But in the work of log analysis, interesting key information is what we needed, not a large rules set      Figure 1.  Performance Evaluation of Rule Number  On the contrary, more rules will submerge the useful information. When mining association rules with key attribute constraints, every rule generated by IAKC will include at least one key attribute, it will help worker analyze log more efficiently Analyzing the rule set, we find that many rules are generated by Apriori, but there are many uninteresting rule with the items of state, flag, and bytes send, such as 12 s tate SF source flag L   These rules are helpless to log an alyzing. In rule set generated by IAKC, the total number of rule is less than Apriori But we find every rule incl udes key attribute, it indicates the relevance between the different attribute. For example, an interesting rule is shown as below protocol=telnet,destination=192.35.222.222 source=12  It shows that between host 12 and remote host, which IP address is 192.35.222.222, telnet service occurs frequently. In the original data, we find there are many log records about the telnet service between these two hosts The result of performance evaluation shows that the improved algorithm with key attribute constraints can find more interesting association rules in log data and can help researcher analyze log more efficiently Because with the key attributes constraints, the number of frequent item sets are reduced, and times to scan database also decreased. The result of performance evaluation is shown as Figure 2. The time consumption of algorithm with key attributes constraints is less than Aproiri. This is very important when the algorithm applied to network log analysis, because the data source is very large VI  C ONCLUSION  The purpose of network log mining is to find interesting information implied in the tremendous number of log data. The validity of rule and time consumption are two important factor to algorithm when it is applied in network log analysis. In this paper, we analyze methods of association rule mining in log data, define key attributes set of network log, then we present an improved algorithm with key attribute constraints to mine more interesting rules. The result of performance evaluation shows the efficiency of this algorithm, not only the number of rules is reduced and the validity of rules is improved, but also time consumption is decreased            Figure 2. Performance Evaluation of Time Consumption 


R EFERENCES   1  ZHAO Xiao-min , HOU Qiang, The Security Management Scheme and Analysis Transaction Policy of the System Logs, Computer Engineering Science, Vol.25, No.3, 2003: 44-47 2  R. Agrawal, T. Imielinsi and A. Swami, Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Very Large Databases, Prof. ACM SIGMOD Conf Management of Data, 1993: 207-216 3  Han J, Kamber. Data Mining : Concepts and Techniques. Beijing: High Education Press, 2001 4  B.Goethals. Survey of frequent pattern mining. Helsinki Institute for Information Technology, Technical Report, 2003 5  R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases, Prof. 20th Intl Conf. Very Large Data Bases,1994: 478-499 6  A. Savasere, E. Omiecinski and S. B. Navathe, An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases, Prof. 21th Intl Conf Very Large Data Bases, 1995: 432-444 7  J. S. Park, M. S. Chen, and P. S. Yu, An Effective Hash based Algorithm for mining association rules, Prof. ACM SIGMOD Conf Management of Data, 1995: 175-186 8  S. Brin, R. Motwani, J. D. Ullman and S. Tsur, Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data, Proc. ACM SIGMOD, 1997: 255-264 9  Lee W, Stolfo S J, Mok K. Algorithms for Mining System Audit Lin T Y, Yao Y Y, Zadeh L A, eds. Data Mining, Rough Sets, and Granular Computing. Heidelberg: Physica-Verlag, 2002: 166-189 10  Traces available in the Internet Traffic Archive http://ita.ee.lbl.gov/html/traces.html, 2009   


If we only want capture IPv6 packet, we can be set to "ip6 The Libpcap capture packet based on BPF filters, and its designed in order to user-level programs enable to high efficient access the original untreated network data packets Libpcap only supports BPF interface kernel filter, without the support of BPF, all data packets will be read into the user space B. Association Rule Mining Association rule discovery, the area being studied most actively technique to investigate the possibility of simultaneous occurrence of the data. Let I={i1,i2,,im} be a set of literals, called items. Let D be a set of transactions where each transaction T is a set of items such that T?I. An association rule is an implication of the form X?Y, where X I,Y ? I,X ? Y=?. Support and confidence are used to describe the interestingness or goodnessof a rule as follows support\(X?Y X?Y confidence\(X?Y X|Y Original network data Data Analysis Pretreatment Pattern mining library Pattern comparison Current network data Output Data Analysis Pretreatment 385 or confidence\(X?Y X?Y X The support of the rule X ? Y is proportion of transactions in D that contain X?Y. The confidence of the association rule X ? Y is the proportion of transactions including both X and Y to all the transactions that association that may happen only among the data that satisfy the minimum support and minimum confidence set by the users. All item sets that have support greater than or equal to the user specified minimum support are generated C. Construction of the candidate feature attribute There is a variety of attribute values in captured network data packets, The basic property is {DIP, DPort Flag, Protocol, Service, State} by extract from the original 


network data. A variety of attacks against the network, its target usually is a host or a service. Thus, the system will serve type and destination host IP as the primary attribute other attributes as a reference attribute. At the same time account the correlation between network attack and time, the system uses the statistical properties of time window. Early experimental result shows \(Lee 1998 detection port or denial of service attacks, etc., usually the time window in 30s completed. At this time the network state almost stabilized. Therefore, in order to increase the main attributes impact to the pattern mining, to improve the accuracy of intrusion detection. The system constructs timerelated primary attribute, its time window is 30s. Table 1 Property Name Meaning Host_count In a time window within the target host with the current connection records number of same connect Same_srv_rate At the same destination host its same connect to service destination port rate Diff_srv_rate At the same destination host its different connect to service destination port rate Same_srv_count At the same destination host its same connect to Service Destination Port with currently connected number Srv_diff_host_rate At the same service?its different connect to destination host rate TABLE I.  CANDIDATE TIME RELEVANT ATTRIBUTES In this way, the system have 11 properties by captured data packets and extract the properties D. Data Preprocessing In association rule mining based on rough set theory the rough set theory mainly used in the pretreatment to conditions attribute data, Data padded and numerical attributes discrete. The experimental data of missing values is very few, so we used it by direct deletion. Discretization of numerical attributes we use Semi Native Scaler algorithm for discrete. The specific algorithm as follows 


To each attribute value a?A, make breakpoint set Ca do the following 1 makes the adjacent objects xi?xi+1 follow vai?vai+1, vai vai+1?Va 2 number frequency to a collection of decision-making value in the corresponding decision-making be calculated Di?Di+1 Di={v?Vd| v=arg maxv|{x?[xi] a|d\(x Di+1={v?Vd| v=arg maxv|{x?[xj] a|d\(x 3 Di?Di+1 Di+1?Di then Ca= Ca?{\(vai+ vai+1 VI. IMPROVE ALGORITHM We can solve the associate rule mining problem in two steps 1 database D 2 frequent itemsets The first step is the most difficult in the mining process After discovering all the frequent itemsets, it is easy to computer the relative association rules. Algorithm Apriori is the most effective among these mining algorithms. The algorithm be shown as follows Step0. Scan the database D to find out L1 Step1. Ck, k>1, is generated by joining the itemsets in Lk1. The itemsets in Ck which have some\(k-1 in Lk-1 are deleted Step2. The support of itemsets in Ck is calculated through database scan to decide Lk Step3. Go to step 1 until Lk The algorithms implement a method that extracts frequent items through scanning the transactional database repeatedly. However, the spending for scanning the database is so lavish that the efficiency of the algorithm databases Therefore, we take the interestingness into account and improve on the basic algorithm In the practical application of association rules sometimes excavated in the rules contains some do not want to get attributes. For example, this rule is derived: "IP address ? MAC address" or the "Service \(HTTP 


80 386 complexity of derivation; Increase the size of the pattern library; affecting the efficiency and accuracy of intrusion detection. In order to improve efficiency of the algorithm association rules to restrict the premise and conclusion in appear properties \(set allowed appearing decision-making attributes and their corresponding values, other attributes only allowed appearing in the premise of rules. As this way, association rule is to be effective rules VII. PATTERN COMPARISON In the pattern comparison, after the pre-recorded the network connection records as the user's current mode. These connection records in rule library are called as historical pattern. Intrusion detection process is the process of model comparison. In the pattern comparison, we introduce the concept of similarity level characterized the degree of accord different behavior patterns. Similarity values range from [0 1], the higher the value explain the greater the similarity, that is, own the greater possibility of abnormal Using Similarity comparison algorithm, in the first we assume X and Y represent the connection records as you want to compare, X\(i records \(0?i+k?Length\(Y i?k is results of the comparison for X\(i i+k is described as follows F=Max[F\(k Y Which, F\(k i,k X Y The greater the results of comparison, the greater link records similarity. In this system, if set F is greater than 0.7 we would considered as abnormal behavior VIII. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS A. Experimental Design For experimenting purposes at the Institute of Computer Network, a small IPv6 network has been established. The network consists of five computer. All computers have been configured as dual-boot configurations driven by MS Windows XP \(with SP2 included systems. Also, all computers in the experimental network have been configured as dual-stack devices supporting both IPv4 and IPv6 protocols 


In the described experimental network some IPv6 intrusion detection tests have been done. Different types of DoS attacks have been performed. Through continuous monitor network streams data in 18 hours, we get the intrusion behavior and some normal connections. Much real streams data are also been performed upon this model Experimental results and some possibilities for their successful detection will be analyzed in next subsection B. Testing Result Tests in Table 2 are done with testing data set. In order to find the relationship between detection accuracy and minimum supports with the same attributes, experiments are done with data of different minimum supports. The classifying result is shown in Table 2 Support 0.05% 0.06% 0.07% 0.08 True 72 70 71 69 False 28 30 29 31 Accuracy 72% 70% 71% 69 TABLE II.  ACCURACY OF EXPERIMENTS Time consumption is fundamental to evaluate an algorithm. The time consumption of the two algorithms, base Apriori algorithm and improved algorithm, is compared in Fig.2 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 0 0. 2 0. 4 0. 6 0. 8 1 Mi ni mum Suppor t Tim e C ost ms  I mpr oved Apr i or i Basi c Apr i or i  Figure 2.  Time cost of two algorithms IX. CONCLUSION 


An improved association rule discovering system under IPv6 network has been studied in this paper. We improved the base Apriori algorithm, this makes association rule mining techniques applicable to IPv6 network, and achieved good experimental results After analysis of experimental results found, although data mining-based intrusion detection model has advantages in the detection performance and universal, however, the systems still exist the following difficulties 1 detection method than the traditional detect has higher false detection rate 2 training data, and more complexity than traditional systems ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This paper is part of the project supported by Stadholder Foundation of Guizhou Province \(Grant No.2007\(14 Graduate Innovation Fund of Guozhou University: Research key technologies of network management in IPv6 network environment \(Grant No.2010006 express his appreciation to the supporter REFERENCES 1] RFC 2375: IPv6 Multicast Address Assignments 2] RFC 2460: Internet Protocol, Version 6 \(IPv6 3] RFC 2463: Internet Control Message Protocol \(ICMPv6 Specification 4] Bishop, M., Cheung, S., Wee, C., Frank, J., Hoagland, J., Samorodin S.: The Threat from the Net. IEEE Spectrum 34\(8 1997 387 5] C Williamson1 Internet Traffic Measurement[ J ] 1 IEEE Internet Computing,,2001, \(11 6] Steven McCanne, Van Jacobson.The BSD Packet Filter: A New Architecture for Userlevel Packet Capture [ C ].San Diego: Proc ofUSEN IX93, 1993. 21-24 7] N Brownlee, CMills, G Ruth. Traffic Flow Measurement Architecture [ S]. IETF RFC2722, 1997  388 


good rule cv with less nr.  Although the acc of 70:30 model was 0.5 higher than 60:40, the distinction was not significant as well as had generated the greater nr. The model with lesser nr but generates good acc is better than model that use more rule to generate same result [12]. Table VI shows the rule classification of the best model. The last column depicts the nr of each programming skill and tr is the number of training record to generate nr   TABLE VI.  RULE CLASSIFICATION OF THE BEST MODEL Programming Skill 60:40 \(acc=90 tr nr Excellent 32 3003 Good 59 4567 Fair 99 6092 Weak 60 4772 Total 250 18443  To indentify the factor that influence programming grade we further analysis rules by focusing the excellent and weak group.  Figure 5 portrays the sample of rules of the both groups Excell PrevExp\(Y B 12 Excel PrevExp\(N B 7 Excel Program\(bit B 24 Excel Program\(bmm A A Excel Program\(edu D 16 Excel Program\(edu D 22 Excel PM\(A 18 17 Excel PM\(A 18 21 Excel Gender\(l B 22 Excel Gender\(l C 20 Excel  Weak PrevExp\(Y D 20 Weak PrevExp\(N C 17 Weak PM\(C 26 17 Weak PBI\(E 17 12 Weak 


PBI\(F B 19 Weak Gender\(p C 15 Weak Gender\(p C 21 Weak Gender\(p A 15 Weak PrevExp\(Y 15 26 Weak Program\(edu l 22 Weak  Figure 5.  The rule sample of the excellent and weak group From the analysis on the generated rules, it shows that student with programming experience before enter the university has benefit to score the programming subject However, some rules indicate that the programming background is not guarantee the student can score programming well. The result was similar to [7, 10, 11].  In line with many literatures, gender plays important role when male is performed better than female. Furthermore, rough set analysis found that student can score programming well with only the average grade in Mathematic and English during SPM at least at grade C subject might face difficulties in learning programming Additionally, another finding which is contradict with previous study is the majority of excel group student has good grade in Malay Language \(at least B grade program that needs student to enroll programming subject, all programs have similar chances to score the subject The relationship between personality factors towards programming grades was also investigated.  Out of 3003 rules of excellent group, there are 2184 rules which describe the personality test result.  We further investigated all rules and from the analysis, many students with investigative type and average cognitive ability have ability to excel programming The findings were similar to [7, 11]. Interestingly, rough set also identified that the social type student also can do programming well. From the literature, a social type is an emphatic, warm, kind, patient and helpful person as well as prefers to teach and help others. Figure 6 summarizes the rule analysis of personality test of the excellent group. The figure shows that the highest score of the investigative type student C11-C20 and C21-C32 social type student. Based on Holland the theory, it is not suggested the personality of student must fall into one the six categories, but rather are composed of one each of the six 


personality orientation. Generally, the Investigative, Artistic and Social are expected to associate together and less of the characteristic associated with Realistic, Enterprising, or conventional personality type [18  Figure 6.  Rule analysis of personality test of the excellent group Table VII represents the comparison between this study and previous researches that use similar dataset TABLE VII.  COMPARISON BETWEEN THIS STUDY AND PREVIOUS RESEARCHES THAT USE SIMILAR DATASET  Study Approach Characteristic Academic Demographic Personality  Statistic [7   Good grade in English Mathematics in SPM, Previous exposure to programming    Male student scores batter   Average cognitive ability, Own investigative type of personality K-Means 11 Good background in Mathematics in 


SPM    Good cognitive ability, Own investigative type of personality  Association Rule [12 Good grade in English Mathematics in SPM at least B grade, Previous exposure to programming mainly structured programming However it is not   Male student scores batter     compulsory  Rough Set This study Average grade in English Mathematics Malay Language  in SPM at least C grade, Previous exposure to programming but 


not necessary   Male student scores batter  Average cognitive ability Investigative and social type of orientation  V. CONCLUSION In this paper, a dataset of undergraduate student from Faculty of IT, UUM was mined using rough set technique Formerly, there were several researches had mined the data using statistic, clustering, and association rule. This study was aimed to identify another unique characteristic that influence student programming grade using other data analysis method The study indicates that student prior experience in programming before university can contributes to a good grade but it is not guarantee that they can easily score the subject The study also reveals that average grades in Mathematic English, and Malay language during SPM also can influence the final grade. Moreover, male student performance is looked better than female.  In term of personality factor, the investigative and social type plus average cognitive person are found as important factors that influence programming.  This finding can be a guideline for the faculty to plan teaching and learning program for new registered student  REFERENCES  1] Z.H.Khan. Information Technology: The importance of programming languages.,2000. [Access date: 23 May 2010 http://www.pakistaneconomist.com/issue2000/issue23/etc5.htm 2] Every Day Space. The Benefits of Computer Programming., 2008 Access date: 30 May 2010 http://www.everydayspace.org/2008/02/04/the-benefits-of-computerprogramming 3] Bergin, S. and Reilly, R. Programming: Factors that Influence 


Success,  Proceedings SIGCSE05. Feb 23-27. Missourri, US. pp 411 415, 2005 4] Wiedenbeck, S. Factors affecting the success of non-majors in learning to program. Proceedings of the first international workshop on Computing education. Seattle, WA, USA, Pg:13  24,  2005 5] Alias, M., Hanawi, S.A. and Arshad, A..  Faktor-faktor Kegagalan Pandangan pelajar Yang mengulang Kursus Pengaturcaraan C, Paper presented in Bengkel Sains Pengaturcaraan \(ATUR03 2003 6] Byrne P. and Lyons, G..  The Effect of Student Attributes on Success in Programming., ACM SIGSE Bulletin of the Proceedings of the 6th Annual Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education 33\(3 7] Norwawi, N.M., Hibadullah, C.F., and Osman, J. \(2005 Affecting Performance in Introductory Programming. [CDROM]. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Qualitative Sciences and Its Applications \(ICOQSIA 8] Bennedsen, J. and Caspersen, M.E. \(2005 Potential Success Factors for an Introductory Model-Driven Programming Course. In Proceedings of International Conference on Education Research \(ICER05 9] Weinberg, G. M. The psychology of computer programming \(silver anniversary edition 10] Hibadullah, C.F., and Norwawi, M.N. \(2007 students performance in programming course using decision tree . The Fifth International Conference on Information Technology in Asia Kuching, pp 315-317, 2007 11] Mohamad Farhan Mohamad Mohsin, Norita Md. Norwawi, Mohd Fairuz Zaiyyadi, Mohd Helmy Abd. Wahab. Pattern Extraction for Programming Performance Evaluation Using Directed Apriori. In Proceeding of the 2nd International Conference on Computing Informatics \(ICOCI'09 12] Bakar, A.A.\(2005 classification modeling for data mining, PHd Thesis. Universiti Putra Malaysia 13] Z. Pawlak, "Rough sets and data analysis," in Fuzzy Systems Symposium, 1996. 'Soft Computing in Intelligent Systems and Information Processing'., Proceedings of the 1996 Asian, 1996, pp. 1  6 14] Muhmaat Said, M. Studi Smart. Kuala Lumpur :Percetakan Cergas 2004 15] Calitz, A.P., Watson, M.B. and de Kock, G de V.  Identification and Selection of Successful Future IT Personnel in a Changing 


Technological and Business Environment. In Proceedings of the 1997 ACM SIGCPR Conference on Computer Personnel Research, April California, USA. pp 31-35, 1997 16] Haliburton, W., Thweat, M. and Wahl, N.J.  Gender Differences in Persdonality Components of Computer Science Students: A test of Hollands Congruence Hypothesis.   In Proceedings of the 1997 ACM SIGSCE 98, Atlanta, USA. pp 77-81. 1994 17] Lech Polkowski, Shusaku Tsumoto, Tsau Y. Lin. Rough set methods and applications: new developments in knowledge discovery in information systems. Springer, 2000 18] Nicola, J.P. and Warren, A.H. Hollands Theory of Personality and Occupation in Road Safety Context. Monash University Accident Reseacrh Centre. [Access date: 22 June 2010 http://www.monash.edu.au/muarc/reports/muarc145.pdf   


Mining, New York City, New York, USA, Aug. 1998, pp 8086 17] Y. Blanco-Fernandez, J. J. P. Arias, A. Gil-Solla, M. R Cabrer, M. L. Nores, J. G. Duque, A. F. Vilas, R. P. D Redondo, and J. B. Munoz, A flexible semantic inference methodology to reason about user preferences in knowledgebased recommender systems, Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 21 no. 4, pp. 305320, 2008 18] S. E. Middleton, H. Alani, N. R. Shadbolt, and D. C. D Roure, Exploiting synergy between ontologies and recommender systems, in Semantic Web Workshop 2002 At the Eleventh International World Wide Web Conference, 2002 19] M. Zanker and M. Jessenitschnig, Case-studies on exploiting explicit customer requirements in recommender systems User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, vol. 19, no 1-2, pp. 133166, 2009 20] N. Ducheneaut, K. Partridge, Q. Huang, B. Price, M. Roberts E. H. Chi, V. Bellotti, and B. Begole, Collaborative filtering is not enough? experiments with a mixed-model recommender for leisure activities, in Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on User Modeling, Adaptation, and Personalization \(UMAP 21] H. Nguyen and P. Haddawy, The decision-theoretic interactive video advisor, in Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence \(UAI 494501 22] B. Mobasher, Data mining for web personalization, in The Adaptive Web, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science P. Brusilovsky, A. Kobsa, and W. Nejdl, Eds. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2007, vol. 4321, ch. 3, pp. 90135 23] T. R. Gruber, A translation approach to portable ontology specifications, Knowl. Acquis., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 199220 1993 24] N. Tintarev and J. Masthoff, The effectiveness of personalized movie explanations: An experiment using commercial meta-data, in Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems AH 25] R. Albertoni and M. D. Martino, Asymmetric and contextdependent semantic similarity among ontology instances Journal on Data Semantics, vol. 10, pp. 130, 2008 26] X. Jin and B. Mobasher, Using semantic similarity to 


enhance item-based collaborative filtering, in 2nd IASTED International Conference on Information and Knowledge Sharing, Scottsdale, Arizona, 2003 476 2010 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications 


Basi Association Rles Basi c  Association R u les Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of Association is basically connecting or tying up occurrences of events Ol dib t f ilt t O n l y d escr ib e se t s o f s i mu lt aneous even t s Cannot describe patterns that iterate over time e g  itemset a  0  b  0  g    Eg If you sense higher data rates on the downlink than normal AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion AND New Route generated Implies high chances of Intrusion Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 20 


Enhanced Inte r transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Enhanced Inter transaction Association Rules Extension of association rules Conditional relationships at multiple different time steps e.g itemset a\(0 0 1 2 You sense Higher data rate than normal AND You see New Route g enerated AND 1 minute a g o you detected checksum gg error packets AND 2 minutes ago your encountered wrong checksum   Implies High Chance of Intrusion Enhanced Rules and Confidence Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 21 


Complex Spatio temporal Association Complex Spatio temporal Association Rules Further extension of inter transaction association rules Describe event durations e.g itemset a\(0,X j,Y k,Z Eg  You sense high data rates for X seconds AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y AND new route generated j minutes ago task completed in Y seconds AND checksum error packets received k minutes ago for Z seconds High Chance of Intrusion With highest confidence level in association rules  association rules  Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 22 


DMITAR Al ith ARD DMITAR Al gor ith m  ARD Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Aiti Miig bd IDS A ssoc i a ti ve Mi n i n g b ase d IDS  Introduction to data mining Association rule in data mining DMITAR Algorithm  ARD New research Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 23 


DMITAR Algorithm DMITAR Difference Matrix Based Inter Transaction Association Rule Miner developed in DMRL Uses vertical data format Differences of the transaction IDs are used to generate extended itemsets Windowless mechanism Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 24 


Deep into the Mechanism The DMITAR algorithm is based on lhilii comp l ex mat h emat i ca l assoc i at i ve formulation and proofs Four major parts Four major parts Frequent 1 itemset generation Frequent 2 itemset generation Frequent k itemset generation k>2 Spatio temporal rule formation Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 25 


DMITAR, Datasets Used Stock Data Stock Data Daily stock information provided by Yahoo finance Wth Dt W ea th er D a t a Provided by the US Department of Commerce and National Climactic Data Center for 700 locations across US Synthetic Data Provided by a CRU weather generator that uses a Markov chain model to generate simulated weather data for 11 UK sites Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 26 


DMITAR Results 1/5 Varying Support DMITAR Results 1/5 Stock Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 6424.7s 132.39s 3.03s 5.556s 16 2348.9s 67.14s 2.14s 4.015s 18 861.92s 34.62s 1.55s 2.89s 20 334.51s 18.89s 1.12s 2.07s 22 143 84s 10 87s 0 87s 1 45s 22 143  84s 10  87s 0  87s 1  45s 24 63.62s 7.15s 0.671s 1.04s Weather Database Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 36362.6s 893.1094s 5.843s 19.8281s 16 11913.04s 378.2188s 3.8906s 13.4375s 18 4116s 170.3438s 2.75s 9.1406s 20 1507s 86.5781s 2.14s 6.203s 22 859.2813s 63.3438s 1.7969s 5.7656s 24 378.5313s 36.1875s 1.4375s 3.5625s Synthetic Dataset Support FITI ITPMine PROWL DMITAR 14 1651.6s 199.843s 3.1406s 17.015s 16 574 32 119 32 2 0938 10 875 16 574  32 s 119  32 s 2  0938 s 10  875 s 18 416.109s 95.31s 1.6094s 7.39s 20 370.25s 83.31s 1.453s 5.8438s 22 265.78s 66.3438s 1.3594s 4.75s 24 133.96s 43.0781s 0.9219s 3.5781s 


DMITAR Rlt  DMITAR  R esu lt s 2  5 Rules Formed Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 28 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Maxspan DMITAR  R esu l ts 3  5 Varying Maxspan Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 29 


DMITAR Res lts 4/5 Vig Di i DMITAR  Res u lts  4/5 V ary i n g Di mens i ons Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 30 


DMITAR Rl  Varying Number of Transactions DMITAR  R esu l ts 5  5 Varying Number of Transactions Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 31 


N/C t Rh N ew C urren t R esearc h Problem Domain Problem Statement and Challenges Associative Mining based IDS Associative Mining based IDS Introduction to data mining ii lid ii Assoc i at i on ru l e i n d ata m i n i ng DMITAR Algorithm  ARD h New Researc h Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 32 


Further Research Further Research Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development Objectives of Our Intrusion Detection System Development 1 Refine and scale the DMITAR algorithm to suit our application 2 Develop methods for dynamically altering the sensor parameters Our Focus is Securing the NextGen Frameworks with New Technology Technology Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 33 


Simulated Sensing Environment Simulated Sensing Environment Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Screenshots of Data C ollected from S ynthetic Sensors Simulated in Our Laboratory Three Steps Slides Collect data Collect data from all sources  all attributes  Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored and Select Select the source and their hierarchical attributes attributes to be monitored  and Sample Sample them at different rates different rates and process them Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 34 


Data Collection Simultaneous collection of data screen from ENTITIES aircrafts Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 35 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Parameter Selection Selection of an ENTITY/aircraft and monitoring its parameters and sensor readings Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 36 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Sensor Sampling Selecting one sensor/probe and reading it at different resolutions or sampling rates Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 37 Source PRTG Network Monitor software screen shot Demo info www.paessler.com 


Si l ti Nt k Si mu l a ti on on N e t wor k Most scenarios can be simulated on a computer or computer network network  The aircrafts and sensors are simulated on a computer network bllb b y ana l ogica l su b stitutions Sensors provide information at different rates Sensors provide information at different rates Need Based Sensor Prioritization NSP and Dynamic Sensing Rate Sampling Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 38 


Vulnerability Search Scan 39 Sample UQA script with Nmap performed in DMRL Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 39 Source Nmap screenshot with a pearl script  Find Namp on Nmap.org 


Modality Aspect Modality Aspect A Multimodal distribution is a continuous probability distribution with two or more modes of underlying data Mltil d i M u lti p l e mo d es i n our model Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 40 Source http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bimodal bivariate small.png 


Multi Modality Modality Fusion 41 SENSITIVE  UNCLASSIFIED For Official Use Only Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 41 


Emphasis Emphasis Our approach emphasizes on pre empting the attack Our intent is NOT to perform an autopsy to discover attacks Instead we aim to detect and prevent in attacks in real time Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 42 


Techniques for Discriminative Rules Techniques for Discriminative Rules Resolution Analysis Features Analyzed at Different Depths Anti Monotonic Principle Modality Aspect Treading into Unexplored Feature spaces Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 43 


Representative Outcomes Representative Outcomes Illustration of the Final Analysis Our method shifts between modalities and sampling rates for optimization The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions 44 The blue parallelograms are actual intrusions The Red Green Blue Plots are response of system Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 44 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


