2011 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems June 27-30, 2011, Taipei, Taiwan 978-1-4244-7317-5/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE A hybrid context aware system for tourist guidance based on collaborative filtering  G. Fenza, E. Fischetti, D. Furno, V. Loia Department of Computer Science CORISA \(Consorzio Ricerca Sistemi ad Agenti University of Salerno E-mail: {gfenza, efischetti, dfurno, loia}@unisa.it  Abstract In the area of ambient intelligence there is a need to address user needs according with context features. Recently, the synergy between context aware computing and collaborative filtering is leading to enhance recommender systems with capabilities always nearer to user needs. Specifically, in the domain of tourism it is useful to proactively suggest right sets of attractive locations, events and so on. This work defines a context 
aware recommender system aimed at suggesting pertinent points of interest \(POIs\o tourists. In particular, the approach is strongly based on the synergy between soft computing and data mining techniques. The general framework integrates user profiles, history of social networking and POIs data. Then by defining collaborative filtering approach on the history meaningful POIs are extracted. Indeed, soft computing techniques are mainly applied in order to support activity of unsupervised users and POIs classification. On the other hand data mining techniques are exploited in order to extract rules able to associate user profile and context features with an eligible set of recommendable POIs. Experimental results show 
performance in terms of recommendations accuracy Keywords-component; context-awareness; fuzzy data analysis data mining; recommender system; points of interest I   I NTRODUCTION  The tourism sector is one of the biggest in the global market employing 200 million people and serving 700 million tourists worldwide. Furthermore, this trend is intended to grow in the next years. Additionally, Information Technology with its constant progress has decisively affected the way that tourism services are performed and provided. In effect, tourists thanks to advances in Information and Communication Technologies ICTs\ are enabled to access tourist information as well as to reservations and plans in a more reliable, accurate, inexpensive 
and efficient way. As a result, services related to tourism are increasingly influenced by the Internet and related technologies, so much so that it is possible to find most of them on line without the necessity of relying on travel agency. On the other hand, ICTs and the Internet have increased the number of choices so dramatically that is very difficult for the users to retrieve what they are looking for. The appropriate discovery of tourism services is one of the main drawbacks when people travel [1 c co r d in g t o  2  res e a r ch  th e re as o n s  of consumers not purchasing travel products online are the lack of personal service, security issues, lack of experience, and time consuming. Furthermore, different users have different preferences and needs. So a remedy for these problems is to 
develop systems with an ability to adapt their behavior to the profile, context and other features of individual users and groups of them. An interesting solution for reducing Internet researches complexity and overcoming the aforementioned difficulties is provided by so called recommender systems Recommender systems have already been applied to several application domains such as finding books, movies, tvprograms, news, music, web-pages, etc. One of the main characteristics of a recommender system is that it can personalize its interaction to each individual user according with context. In that case, personalization involves the design of enabling systems to capture or infer the needs of each person and then to satisfy those needs in a known context [3  Con t e x t  
awareness computing and recommender systems can enhance and complement each other; they both help users in finding relevant and interesting objects based on their interests and current context In the specific of this paper, our intention is to propose a hybrid context-aware recommender system aimed at adaptively and proactively suggesting points of interest \(POIs\o tourists according to their profile, but also to their context. In particular the work defines an integrated environment applying content based and collaborative filtering on historical data through soft computing and data mining techniques in order to predict and suggest POIs to users. In other words, the main goal of the 
proposed work is related to define context-aware recommender system whose quality of feedback relies on the acquisition of user context and profile by means of a robust theoretical approach. So, the overall framework is composed of two main workflows: knowledge discovery and recommendation. In particular, Knowledge Discovery Process concerns the fuzzy data analysis of users and POIs. Indeed, fuzzy clustering and classifiers enable us to integrate cluster of users and POIs with historical data. Then association rule mining activity points out a correspondence between user, contexts and cluster of POIs On the other hand, Recommendation Process foresees activities of user classification and rule matching in order to provide 
some ranked recommendation about pertinent POIs The paper is organized as follows: Section II presents some related works available in literature; Section III proposes a theoretical background for supporting workflows description Section IV and Section V introduce workflows of the framework by focusing on the Knowledge Discovery Process and Recommendation Process, respectively. Then, Section VI describes the system performance in terms of accuracy. Finally conclusions and future works close the paper 131 


    II  R ELATED W ORKS  The aim of this section is to depict the research trend with reference to context aware recommender systems in ambient intelligence for tourist guidance and to point out the benefits of the proposed approach. Among research works regarding personalized and/or location-based recommender systems based on web service, with specific reference to tourist domain Kakaletris et al  a ddr e s s t h e de si gn a nd i m p l e m e n t a t i o n  issues for delivering location-based tourism-related content services. By illustrating an example of generic tourist guide Scherp and Boll [5 e m p h a s iz e o n  su p por ting th e d y na m i c  generation of personalized multimedia content in respect of the touristês interests and preferences, current location and environment, and mobile device used. Aiming at effectively coordinating and integrating disparate information and service resources anytime and anywhere, Chiu and Leung [6 p r opo se a ubiquitous tourist assistance system that is built upon multiagent and semantic web technologies for providing personalized assistance and automation to the tourists with different preferences and often changing requirements during their trips. Five agent clusters specified in the system architecture include tourist assistant, ontology maintenance and search, requirement/preference management, package planning and local tour planning. Ricci and Nguyen [7 p r e s e n t  a critique-based mobile recommender system that lets users expressing session-specific preferences in addition to the longterm collected preferences. The objective is to provide on-tour system support to mobile travelers for selecting products or services based on the integration of both types of preferences The COMPASS system [8 all ow s eas y cre ati on  of  c o n t e x taware personalized applications and the services that are part of such a platform, including a service registry, a context manager and a recommendation engine. Console et al. [9 cr eat e d a prototype system called MastroCARonte, which provides personalized services that adapt to the user and his context onboard cars. This research focuses on the effects of having such adaptive systems onboard cars Among research works regarding more specifically context aware and adaptive recommender systems for tourist guidance the Intrigue system [10 is an in te ra ctiv e ag en da of f e re d by a  tourist information server that assists the user in creating a personalized tour along tourist attractions. This research focuses on planning and scheduling a personalized tour taking into account the location of each tourist attraction and the interests of the user. A last example of a tourist guide project is the GUIDE project of the University of Lancaster [11  T h is project develops a context sensitive tourist guide for the visitors to the city of Lancaster. Specifically, in this project Users have a portable PC that communicates with a Wireless LAN to retrieve information. The used context information is knowledge of the user and knowledge of the environment including the physical location of the user\. Based on the location and user preferences, visitors can obtain information in two ways. All the required information is broadcasted by cell base-stations to portables either as part of a regular schedule information relevant for the region the station covers\ or in response to user requests. The system determines the location of the user by the cell coverage, or the user can specify in which location he/she is The aforementioned works provide the user with tourist recommendations but do not manage uncertainty among user interests. Furthermore, most of them are only content based omitting collaborative information that is a crucial aspect for user recommendations personalization. In this sense, our approach presents an hybrid system which main aim is related to provide an integrated environment for tourist guidance that combines collaborative and content based filtering. Indeed, the main idea of this work is related to enhanced context awareness by means of data analysis, computational intelligence and rule mining techniques in order to obtain a recommender system able to suggest users in the tourist domain with pertinent POIs Strictly related approach is described in [12 w h ere a  personalization method for tourist Point of Interest \(POI Recommendation is defined by considering both user preferences and collaborative aspects. Indeed, [12 ex pl oi t s a  memory based algorithm to carry out suggestions. In particular our system define a model based approach that trains itself by performing activities of fuzzy context data analysis in order to support both POIs and userês context identification by means of fuzzy classifiers III  T HEORETICAL B ACKGROUND  The overall system takes into account users data, available POIs and historical data in order to provide proper recommendations \(i.e., POIs\ according to his/her preferences and context. In particular, algorithms of clustering and classification allow to tackle the huge amount of incoming data Users and POIs\. On the other hand, association rules mining algorithm on historical data allows to extract correspondences with pertinent tourist POI categories Since, this work relies on a mathematical model that exploits soft computing and data mining techniques, this section provides some theoretical basis in order to support understanding of the overall framework workflows A  Fuzzy clustering Once data, about users and POIs, are collected and arranged adequately, they are processed by Fuzzy C-Means \(briefly FCM\ algorithm   16 FC M i s a n unsup er vi sed c l ust e r i n g  algorithm, which considers a prior fixed number of clusters. In order to give more accurate partitions of data, many researchers have studied the cluster validity criteria [17  I n o u r pa st s t udie s  and experimentations we have achieved good results by the application of Xie and Beniês validity measure [1   so w e  ha ve also selected it for the approach proposed in this work Advanced approaches to \(fuzzy\ clustering methods could be exploited, according to the nature of the data space and the inherent relationships. As said, we exploit the well-know FCM algorithm, particularly useful for flexible data organizationally It takes as input a data matrix and it tries to get an çoptimal partitioning of the feature space \(composed by the data matrix FCM aims at maximizing the homogeneity, grouping into the same cluster the patterns which are closer. Herein, each pattern is a row of matrix. FCM recognizes spherical çclouds of pointsé in a multi dimensional data space \(i.e. data matrix\ and each cluster is represented by its center point \(prototype or centroid\ The function minimizes the weighted sum of the 132 


    distances between data points x and the centroid v according to this formula             c l j l m p j j i n i p j n i l i j l j i l i v x w v x w U V 1  1  11 1  2          1 where c  2 is the number of clusters l i w   0,1 is the membership degree of x i,j in the l-th cluster and m is the features number. In particular, since our feature set is mixed because of numeric and nominal features, the m features are partitioned in two set, namely a numeric feature set composed by the features from 1 to p and a nominal feature set composed by the features from p+1 to m As a result, the first term in \(1 is the squared Euclidean distance measure on the numeric attributes and the second term is a semantic distance on the nominal attributes, where  is equal to a linear combination between a semantic distance taxonomy based  a nd Go ogl e similarity distance [14  f i n a l l y   is used to weight features After the FCM execution, data partitions are returned, in a prior fixed number c of clusters. Anyway, with the application of validity measures it is possible to execute clustering without a prior number of clusters specification Details about how Fuzzy Clustering has been applied in this framework are given in Section IV and V, where the workflows of the whole proposed system are detailed B  Fuzzy Classifier Design In computational intelligence literature, fuzzy rules have been often exploited in different approaches for decoding the knowledge in a way closer to the human understanding. In neural network [22 a ppro a ch i f-t he n fuz z y r u l e s e n ab l e  t h e emulation of the decisions or reasoning of a human expert whereas fuzzy number and compositional rules of inference have been employed for fuzzy decision making in medical diagnosis [2 Th e  f u zzy  if t h e n  ru l e s p r ov id e an  in t e r p re tat i o n  of the clusters, closer to the human understanding and easier to evaluate, with respect to the values range of each feature Outputs of previous phase are prototypes and a partitioning matrix of the data patterns. This matrix contains the memberships of the elements of the given data set in each of the c clusters. Generally, the linear interpolation of memberships is computed; in order to easily assign linguistic label, the membership function is computed by linear interpolation of the projected membership to each axis according to the n-dimension space\, for each cluster. More specifically, exploiting the cylindrical extension technique [15  a projection-based method of n-dimensional argument vector the generic i-th fuzzy cluster can be described by a fuzzy rule where each features is described through a fuzzy set. Each fuzzy cluster K i with i = 1, . . . , c can be represented through n functions A i1 A i2 A in obtained by the projected and interpolated memberships. The generated rules are subject to a proper validation by experts of the specific domain and then exploited for suitable classifications. In our work, the fuzzy rules are exploited to classify new tourist POIs and users. Just to provide an example, a fuzzy rule, supposed to be in the form of Takagi-Sugeno model [1 s de scr i b ed a s fo l l o w s  R i  If x 1 is A i1 AND x 2 is A i2 AND É AND x n is A in  then y i a i1 x 1 a i2 x 2 a in x n b i  with weight [w i   1    c  where R i is the i-th rule, x 1 x 2 x n are the input variables A i1 A i2 A in are the fuzzy sets assigned to corresponding input variables, variable y i represents the value of the i-th rule output, and a i a i1 a i2 a in  n d b i are parameters of the consequent function. As said before, the antecedent fuzzy sets are usually achieved by projecting the membership degrees in the fuzzy partitions matrix U onto the axes of individual antecedent variable x j to obtain a point-wise defined antecedent fuzzy set A ij Then we approximate it by a normal bell-shaped membership function  i n de ed t h e uni for m st r u ct ure o f  b e l l shaped function is suitable for identification, analysis and optimization. Hence, each fuzzy set A ij is calculated from the sampled input data x j x 1j x nj  T and the fuzzy partition matrix U = [u ij  s fo l l o w s      2 2 1 exp   iq iq ij z z A    2 where        n j ij iq qj n j ij ij n j ij n j qj ij iq u x u and u x u 1 2 1 1 1       3 represent the mean and standard deviation of the bell-shaped membership function, respectively On the other hand, the computation of parameters a i a i1  a i2 a in  T and b i in the consequent part requires a deepened study, in order to evaluate the firing strength w i of the i-th rule and the value of y i   Goal is to evaluate the final output of the TS fuzzy model y i  for an arbitrary x j input sample, which is calculated using the following formula         1 i i k k c i i k b a x x w y     4 with k = 1, 2, 3, . . .,n and where   k i x w represent the firing strength of i-th rule for the k-th pattern. Thus, in order to compute the parameters of consequent part of a rule, a regression model of the compact form Y  Xê [a i T b i   is evaluated: herein  is the approximation error, Xê assumes the form: Xê = [w 1 x k T 1,  w 2 x k T 1, É, w c x k T 1 Ve ct o r s  a i T b i  are determined using the least-squares method [21   C  Rule Mining The proposed approach foresees activities of rule mining on historical data, in order to associate user contexts and tourist POI categories. The problem of mining association rules over was introduced in [2 A n e x am ple of  an as s o c i at ion  ru l e in  our case might be that 90% of users arriving in a tourist town in the morning, being scientific researchers and walking, select POI about the nearer science museum. The following is a 133 


            Figure 1. Workflows of the overall framework: Knowledge Discovery Process, Recommendation Process  formal statement of the problem [2 g i v e n a s e t  of item s  I   I 1  I 2  I m and a database of transactions D t 1  t 2  t n  where t i  I i 1  I i 2  I i k and I ij   I, an association rule is an implication of the form X  Y where X  Y   I are sets of items called itemsets and X  012  Y  X is called the antecedent and Y is called the consequent. We are generally not interested in all implications but only those that are important Here, two features called support and confidence are usually used to measure the importance of association rules The support for an association rule X   Y is the percentage of transactions in the database that contain X   Y The confidence for an association rule X   Y is the ratio of the number of transactions that contain X    Y to the number of transactions that contain X Rules that satisfy both the minimum support \(MinSup\ and confidence \(MinConf thresholds are called strong rules. An algorithm for finding all association rules, henceforth referred to as the AIS algorithm was presented in [24  A n o t h e r alg o r ith m f o r th is task  c a l l e d  the SETM algorithm, has been proposed in [25 In this work, we use an algorithm, Apriori [26  th at  dif f e r  fundamentally from these algorithms and exhibits better performance. Furthermore, in our future works we would like to experiment a Formal Concept Analysis-based Association Rule Mining Algorithm as proposed in  IV  K NOWLEDGE DISCOVERY PROCESS  As highlighted in Fig.1, the overall framework consists of two main workflows Knowledge Discovery Process and Recommendation Process Following subsections detail the first one  A  Users and POIs Preprocessing Preprocessing tasks on Users and POIs data allow to start the process of Knowledge Discovery. In particular, gathering and normalization activities take place in order to prepare data for the next phase, that is Users and POIs clustering  Specifically, preprocessing carries out the user and POIs data sets, as shown in Table I A nd B In the example the user data set includes three features \(i.e., age, skill and interest whereas POIs data set is composed of five features \(i.e., type lat, long, when, period\. Furthermore, as highlighted in the Table I features may be numerical or nominal. For instance, in the user data set features space age is a numerical attribute whereas skill and interest are rather nominal B  Users and POIs clustering Analogously with the previous step, clustering execution takes place on user and POIs data sets. We stress that users and POIs are considered in two off-line separate processes and the subsequent extraction of classification rules enable us to properly add new users and POIs to clusters. So, the execution of these two distinct processes should not be time consuming because there is no need to execute clustering again whenever a new user or POI must be considered. Specifically, the framework exploits FCM algorithm in order to arrange data according to their similarities. In particular, in order to use mixed features, namely, numeric and nominal, a light variant of FCM is performed TABLE  I   A   U SER DATA SET AND  B   POI S DATA SETS   A   B  ID User Features  ID POI Features age skill interest  type lat  long when period U1 28 researcher Science  P1 zoo 41.24 14.06 all day always U2 43 truck driver restaurant reservation  P2 restaurant 42.23 12.34 all day ever, except monday U3 22 student entertainment  P3 disco 44.55 16.80 from midnight every weekend U4 24 student Science  P4 restaurant 40.20 14.02 all day ever, except tuesday U5 28 lawyer restaurant reservation  P5 museum 42.20 19.46 from 9 a.m always      134 


    TABLE  II   A   U SER PROFILE PARTITION MATRIX AND  B  POI PARTITION MATRIX   A    B   ID User Clusters  ID POI Clusters UC1 UC2 UC3 PC1 PC2 PC3 PC4 U1 0,68 0,12 0,2  P1 0,6 0,05 0,3 0,05 U2 0,2 0,7 0,1 P2 0,07 0,7 0,03 0,2 U3 0,05 0,35 0,6  P3 0,06 0,25 0,04 0,65 U4 0,7 0,1 0,2 P4 0,07 0,7 0,03 0,2 U5 0,15 0,65 0,2  P5 0,2 0,07 0,7 0,03       The input of this algorithm are matrices similar to Table I  A and B nd the output consists of partition matrices that synthesize users and POIs in different clusters \(see Section III for more details Anyway, since we use a fuzzy algorithm for clustering, we obtain that each user or POI belongs to several clusters with different membership degrees. Table II shows part of the aforementioned partition matrices C  Users and POIs fuzzy classifier design In this step, the previously obtained user and POI clusters are used to design fuzzy classifiers that are useful to relate new incoming data, such as POI or active user, with the existing clusters This design process extracts lists of if-then rules characterizing clusters obtained in the previous step. By designing classifiers the system trains itself in order to avoid clustering execution every time to position new POIs or new users. Theoretical details about this phase can be found in Section III. Table III A and \(B\ shows part of rules concerning users and POI classifiers D  Integration of historical data One of the main aim of the proposed approach is to apply collaborative filtering on historical data, in order to recommend POIs to users that meet their context and preferences. Each record in such historical data asserts interest of a certain user that is identified in a specific context for a proper tourist POI In this step, an integration between historical data and clusters obtained in the previous steps is achieved by exploiting fuzzy classifiers. Specifically, for each row of the historical data, if the user data in a historical transition are   age = 20   skill = student   interest = science then these data can be replace with UC1 \(User Cluster 1 according to classifier in Table III A Similarly, if the POI attribute values in a transition are the following   type = museum   lat = 42.20   long = 19.46   when = from 9 a. m   period = always then, data can be replaced with PC3 \(POI Cluster 3\ccording to classifier in Table III B n Fig. 2, are highlighted the substitutions described above, but it is important to point out that a historical transition is also characterized by context data that is, the context where the user was when he/she selected the specific POI. This further information will be exploit in the next step and it will be of use to provide context aware recommendations to users E  Association rules mining As said before \(see Section III\ a Apriori algorithm have been selected to carry out association rule on historical data. In particular, in this step, extracted rules synthesize the relation between cluster of users, context and POIs clusters. These rules are useful to recommend eligible POIs to the tourists according with context and user features. Extracted rules are in the following form lat=40/42, long=13/15, time=morning, date=saturday walk/drive=walk, User Cluster=UC1  Poi Cluster=PC3 Furthermore, to each rule is associated an importance degree by two features, namely, support and confidence. These features allow to set thresholds \(i.e. MinSup, MinConf\n order to trigger only the so called strong rules \(see Section III V  R ECOMMENDATION PROCESS  The results obtained from Knowledge Discovery Process  are exploited to recommend POIs to users according to their context and preferences. In particular, the recommendation process, described in this section, consists of three steps detailed below   TABLE  III   A   U SER CLASSIFIER AND  B   POI CLASSIFIER   A      B   ID User Profile Rule User Profile Rules  ID POI Rule POI Rules IF THEN IF THEN age profession interest Cluster  type lat long when period Cluster UPR1 young student science UC1 PR4 restaurant 40/45 13/20 all day ever, except tuesday PC2 UPR2 middle truck driver restaurant reservation UC2 PR5 museum 40/45 13/20 morning always PC3            135 


    ID Transaction Features  Context User Profile POI lat long time date walk/drive age skill interest type lat long  when period T1 40.24 13.06 morning saturday walk 18 student science museum 42.20 19.46 from 9 a.m always T2 40.24 13.06 morning sunday walk 20 student science museum 45.36 18.07 from 4 p.m every weekend T3 42.81 12.30 afternoon sunday walk 30 ecologist animals zoo  42.24 15.06 all day always T4 41.35 12.20 morning saturday drive 35 biologist animals zoo 41.24 14.06 all day always T5 41.50 13.88 evening monday drive 43 truck driver restaurant reservation restaurant 43.20 14.02 all day ever, except tuesday T6 40.50 13.88 evening tuesday drive 43 truck driver restaurant reservation restaurant 40.20 14.02 all day ever, except monday         Figure 2. Historical Social Networking and clusters association   TABLE  IV  A CTIVE U SER C LASSIFICATION  ID User Clusters UC1 UC2 UC3 U1 0,1 0,2 0,7 U2 0,65 0,2 0,15 U Active 0,1 0,7 0,2    A  User cluster identification The aim of this step is to identify the cluster of the active user that have çchecked-iné to the application system. Thanks to the user classifier, it is not needed to run clustering again in order to determine the belonging of the active user to a specific cluster. When there is a new active user or already registered user changes him preferences the classification take place. In that cases, through the execution of classification rules \(see Table III\ a new row is added to the user partition matrix as shown in the Table IV. More specifically, Table IV highlights that the considered active user belongs to User Cluster 2 \(UC2 with a membership degree higher than the other clusters therefore, the active user is considered belonging to UC2 B  Rules matching In this step, the triggering of a specific rule is achieved according to higher degree of matching between the active user and extracted rules. In particular, a matching degree is calculated by considering a matching matrix M where the rows are represented by the extracted rules ranked according to their support and confidence features, whereas the columns are represented by active user context features and user cluster. Let be M the matching matrix, the maximum matching degree M max  is given by the following formula n 1 k n 1 i m max m 1 j j i k max      5  m j n i a u S j i j j i  1  1         6 m j n i a u a u S j i j j i j  1  1    1          7 where i u represents the context and profile features of the active user j i a represents the antecedent clause of each extracted rule in the knowledge discovery process and  is defined as described in Section III. So, Table V shows an example of maximum matching degree between the active user and the extracted rules according to \(5\, \(6\nd \(7 TABLE  V  M AXIMUM MATCHING BETWEEN ACTIVE USER AND RULES   Matching User/Rule Context User Cluster POI Cluster lat long time date walk/drive User Active  41.50 13.88 evening monday drive UC2  Rule Active  40/42 13/15 evening monday drive UC2 PC2 S\(User Active  Rule Active   0,75 0,68 1 1 1 0,7  M max  0,75 + 0,68 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 0,7\/6 0,855  C  Recommendations ranking In the last step of this process, we determine the ranked list of POIs that may be suggested to the user In particular, the previous step determines the maximum matching between a new user that starts a transaction and the extracted rules. Rules matching evaluation, defines the highest match of the active user respect with extracted rules. Since, the consequent of a rule is represented by a POI Cluster, this match points out that POIs belonging to a specific cluster can be recommended as relevant for the active user. For instance, user is in a certain context and with a determinate profile if the active rule is the following lat=40/42, long=13/15, time=evening, date=monday walk/drive=drive, User Cluster=UC2 Poi Cluster=PC2 then, the ranked list of POIs consists of those belonging to the cluster PC2, as shown in Table V  136 


    TABLE  VI  POI S R ECOMMENDATION RANKING   ID POI Features Cluster Recommendation Ranking type lat  long  when period PC2 max M b ic i     P8 restaurant  40.33 14.14 all day ever, except thuersday 0,8 0,684 P2 restaurant 42.23 12.34 all day ever, except Tuesday 0,7 0,6     P5 restaurant 40.20 14.02 all day ever, except monday 0,55 0,47 P3 hotel 42.90 15.30 all day always 0,47 0,4 P1 zoo 41.24 14.06 all day always 0,34 0,3       In order to carry out the ranked list of POIs the framework assigns a ranking value to each POI corresponding to ic b that is the belonging degree of the i-th POI to the cluster c \(i.e PC2\ in the consequent of rule with maximum matching in the antecedent and n is the number of POIs. Table VI shows an example of POIs recommendation ranking I  E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS  This section presents the performance results of our proposed recommender system. In particular, Mean Absolute Error MAE\d Root Mean Square Error \(RMSE\ used in order to evaluate the accuracy of the system. Specifically, by considering different set of features the system has been evaluated in the following variants   LS - System considering Location   LUC - System considering Location and User Context   LUP - System considering Location and User Profile   HRS - Hybrid Recommender System considering Location, User Context and User Profile The system has been evaluated with 20 users and 200 POIs Obviously, little by little the history data grow the system retrieve more meaningful results \(the history considered contains about 1000 records\reviously said, MAE and RMSE are used for performance evaluation of the proposed recommender system. MAE is a quantity used to measure how close forecasts or predictions are to the eventual outcomes. On the other hand, RMSE measures the average magnitude of the error, that is, the difference between forecast and corresponding observed values, where each of these differences is squared and then averaged over the sample; so, a relatively high weight is given to large errors. MAE and RMSE can be used together to diagnose the variation in the forecasting errors Since the lower the MAE, the more accurately the recommendation engine predicts user ratings [2  th e ob tai n e d  results, shown in Fig. 3, highlight a clear superiority of the overall proposed recommender system among the other variants. Furthermore, since the greater difference between MAE and RMSE, the greater the variance in the individual errors in the sample, Table VII points out that all the errors are of the same magnitude II  C ONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORKS  As a result of demands continuously growing in ambient intelligence for systems able to exploit context for satisfaction of user preferences, a context aware recommender system for tourist guidance is proposed in this paper The proposed system presents several improvements Firstly, user context and profile are considered in order to effectively identify his preferences. Uncertainty among user interests is an important issue which is clearly considered in this approach in order to establish an effective recommendation strategy. Additionally, this approach provides dynamic user clustering for active users and supports them with a personalized and adaptive environment. Moreover, any POIs change can be simply notified to all interested users. Anyway there are some limitations in this research area that we consider as future research directions. FCM alternative clustering algorithms that work better with mixed data can be experimented as well as alternative rule mining algorithms using fuzziness and based on lattice. However, the proposed framework confirms the useful of considering context factor in recommender systems and provides us with reasonable results in terms of recommendation accuracy as evidenced by the experimental results  TABLE  VII  R ECOMMENDER SYSTEMS MAE COMPARISON  Recommender System LS  LUC  LUP  Hybrid Recommender System  MAE 0,932 0,869 0,851 0,811 RMSE 0,932 0,869 0,851 0,811  R EFERENCES  1  Tak Kee Hui, David Wan, Alvin Ho, Tourists' satisfaction recommendation and revisiting Singapore, Tourism Management Volume 28, Issue 4, August 2007, Pages 965-975 2  Wolfe, K., Hsu, C. H. C. & Kang, S. K. \(2005\. Buyer Characteristics Among Users of Various Travel Intermediaries. Journal of Travel Tourism Marketing, 17\(2\-62 3  Doug Riecken. 2000. Introduction: personalized views of personalization. Commun. ACM 43, 8 \(August 2000\, 26-28 4  G. Kakaletris, D. Varoutas, D. Katsianis, T. Sphicopoulos, and G Kouvas. 2004. Designing and Implementing an Open Infrastructure for Location-Based, Tourism-Related Content Delivery. Wirel. Pers Commun. 30, 2-4 \(September 2004\, 153-165 137 


     Figure 3. Mean Absolute Error experimental results \(k=10  5  Ansgar Scherp and Susanne Boll. 2004. Generic support for personalized mobile multimedia tourist applications. In Proceedings of the 12th annual ACM international conference on Multimedia MULTIMEDIA '04\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 178-179 6  Dickson K. W. Chiu and Ho-fung Leung. 2005. Towards ubiquitous tourist service coordination and integration: a multi-agent and semantic web approach. In Proceedings of the 7th international conference on Electronic commerce \(ICEC '05\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 574-581 7  Francesco Ricci and Quang Nhat Nguyen. 2007. Acquiring and Revising Preferences in a Critique-Based Mobile Recommender System. IEEE Intelligent Systems 22, 3 \(May 2007\, 22-29 8  Mark van Setten, Stanislav Pokraev, and Johan Koolwaaij. ContextAware Recommendations in the Mobile Tourist Application COMPASS In Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems,  pages 235Ö244. 2004 9  Console, L., Gioria, S., Lombardi, I., Surano, V., Torre, I.: Adaptation and Personalization on Board Cars: A Framework and Its Application to Tourist Services. In: De Bra, P., Brusilovsky, P., Conejo, R. \(eds Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems, Proceedings of the second International Conference, AH 2002, M·laga, Spain, May Springer-Verlag, LNCS 2347 \(2002\ 112-121   Ardissono, L., Goy, A., Giovanna, P., Segnan, S., Torasso, P Ubiquitous User Assistance in a Tourist Information Server. In: De Bra P., Brusilovsky, P., Conejo, R. \(eds\ Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems, Proceedings of the second International Conference, AH 2002, M·laga, Spain, May, Springer-Verlag, LNCS 2347 \(2002\ 14-23   Nigel Davies, Keith Mitchell, Keith Cheverst, Gordon Blair: Developing a Context Sensitive Tourist Guide, Proceedings of the First Workshop on Human Computer Interaction for Mobile Devices, Department of Computing Science, University of Glasgow, UK, May 1998, pp. 64-68   Eui-young Kang, Hanil Kim, and Jungwon Cho. Personalization method for tourist point of interest \(POI\ recommendation. In Bogdan Gabrys Robert Howlett, and Lakhmi Jain, editors, Knowledge-Based Intelligent Information and Engineering Systems, volume 4251 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, chapter 48, pages 392Ö400. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2006   El Sayed, A.; Hacid, H.; Zighed, D.; , çA New Context-Aware Measure for Semantic Distance Using a Taxonomy and a Text Corpus Information Reuse and Integration, 2007. IRI 2007. IEEE International Conference on vol., no., pp.279-284, 13-15 Aug. 2007   Rudi L. Cilibrasi and Paul M. B. Vit·nyi. The Google Similarity Distance. Knowledge and Data Engineering, IEEE Transactions on 19\(3\:370Ö383, 2007   Hoppner F., Klawonn F., Kruse R., Runkler T. Fuzzy Cluster Analysis Methods for Image Recognition. J. Wiley, N. York, 1999   J. C. Bezdek, Pattern Recognition with Fuzzy Objective Function Algorithms. Plenum Press, New York, 1981   L.Jegatha Deborah, R.Baskaran and A.Kannan, A Survey on Internal Validity Measure for Cluster Validation, Anna University Ö Chennai   X. Xie and G. Beni, çA Validity Measure for Fuzzy Clustering,é IEEE Trans. Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence \(PAMI\, vol. 13, no. 8 pp.841 - 847, 1991   Takagi, T., and Sugeno, M.: èFuzzy identification of systems and its applications to modeling and controlê, IEEE Trans. Syst., Man Cybern 1985, 15, pp. 116Ö132   C.C. Kung and J.Y. Su  Affine Takagi-Sugeno fuzzy modelling algorithm by fuzzy c-regression models clustering with a novel cluster validity criterion, IET Control Theory Appl., 2007, 1, \(5\ pp. 1255 1265   Dragan Kukolj Design of adaptive TakagiÖSugenoÖKang fuzzy models Applied Soft Computing 2 \(2002\ 89Ö103   S. Mitra,; Y. Hayashi,; Neuro-fuzzy rule generation: survey in soft computing framework IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, Volume 11,  Issue 3,  May 2000 Page\(s\:748 Ö 768   J.F.-F. Yao, J.-S.Yao, Fuzzy decision making for medical diagnosis based on fuzzy number and compositional rule of inference, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, 120 \(2001\, pp 351-366   R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, Washington, D.C., May 1993   M. Houtsma and A. Swami. Set-oriented mining of association rules Research Report RJ 9567, IBM Almaden Research Center, San Jose California, October 1993   Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules, Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, September 12-15, 1994, Santiago de Chile Chile   G.Fenza, V.Loia, S.Senatore, çFriendly Web Services Selection exploiting Fuzzy Formal Concept Analysisé, Soft Computing, 2008   Good, N., Schafer, B., Konstan, J., Borchers, A. Sarwar, B., Herlocker J., Riedle, J.: Combining Collaborative Filtering with Personal Agents for Better Recommendation. In Proc. of the AAAI conference \(1999 439-446  138 


ix  ZHANG Zhi-gang Study of resource index algorithm based on p2p Nan YAO and Baoshan Sun 255 Efficient Encoding of The MELP LSF Parameters : Application of The Switched Split Vector Quantization BOUZID Merouane 259 ICCIA 2010 Session 5 Design of Intelligent Control System for A.C. Motor Synchronous Driving with Multi-units Mu Zhang and Jiancheng Wu 263 A new Control Strategy of Sizing percentage based on analysis of key Factors Yufeng Jia and Mu Zhang 266 The Robust Asymptotically Stabilization of Uncertain Nonlinear Systems Based on High-Gain observer Bo Meng and Huixin Tian 270 Digital Image Processing of Cotton Yarn Seriplane Cheng Ling, Zhao Lianying, Chen Li and Zhou Xuanli 274 Sliding Mode Control Scheme for Aircraft Zhao Zhan-shan, Zhang Jing, Sun Lian-kun and Ding Gang 278 Cramer-Rao Bound for Angle Estimation with Passive Synthetic Array Bo Tang, Zhikun Ma and Jun Tang 282 Sliding Mode Control Based on Finite Time Stabilization Zhang Jing, Ding Gang and Jin Liu 286 A Note on Local Receive Channel Scheduling versus Transmit Channel Scheduling in Wireless Multi-Channel Ad Hoc Networks Jens P. Elsner, Ralph Tanbourgi and Friedrich K. Jondral 289 SEMI-SUPERVISED FEATURE SELECTION BASED ON LABEL PROPAGATION AND SUBSET SELECTION Yun Liu, Feiping Nie, Jigang Wu and Lihui Chen 293 An Intelligent Representing System of Search Results 


Zheng Zhang, Gang Bai, Jinhua Li and Yi Zhu 297 Research of Cruor Detecting System and Method Junru Li, Jixin Zhou, Yu Feng and Yingui Liu 301 UML-Based Development of Modern AC Servo Drives Xu Zheng 305 Study on the Measuring System for Vehicle's Passing Ability in Space Chengqiang Zong, Xinping Yan and Zhiyong Lu 309 x  Data Integration Framework for Semi-Structured Data and Structured Data on Equiptment Domain based on Ontology Wang Pan-qing, Li Xiong-Wei and Liu Zeng-liang 314 Particle Swarm Optimization Route Planner Algorithm for Air Vehicle Yu Hui, Yu Xin and Su min 319 Performance Analysis of Parallel Database in Grid Wu Weining, Song Guozhi and Li Xingang 323 Analysis on the Coordinated Development between Modern Logistics and Urban Agglomeration Based on the Comparison of Yangtze River Delta and Jing-Jin-Ji Area Chunhong Zhu, Shenshen Wang and Fan Yang 326 ICCIA 2010 Session 6 Selection Research on Construction Sub-contractor EnterprisesBased on Bilevel Programming Yan-bing Yin, Hong Zhao and Hanjun Chen 330 Monte Carlo Analysis of Probability of One-dimensional Consolidation in Saturated Clay Soil Ground Li Xiaoyong and Zhang Hui 335 Design and Implementation for Parallel Particle Swarm Optimization Color Quantization Algorithm Zhe Li and Yong Chen 339 Attribute Mapping for Cross-Domain Access Control Yi-Hong Long , Zhi-Hong Tang and Xu Liu 


343 Intelligent Control System for Two-motor Synchronous Driving Yunjun Chen ,Xiuming Jiang and Gongyuan Yang 348 A Study of NC Limit Traction Technology in the Scope of Cutting Hard Materials Jiali Wu, Ming Li,Yingui Liu and Guozhi Song 352 Detecting Implicit Exceptions of Service-oriented Application Based on Context Xiangyang Jia, Shi Ying, Kai Zhao and Qing Wu 356 Fuzzy Control for the Handling Stability of Motor Drive Electric Vehicle Yongli Zhao and Yuhong Zhang 361 Acoustic-Structure Coupled Analysis of Interior Noise for Heavy Commercial Vehicle MA Tianfei,GAO Gang and ZHANG Yuntao 366 Sahana Alerting Software for Real-Time Biosurveillance in India and Sri Lanka Nuwan Waidyanatha, Gordon Gow, Chamindu Sampath, Ganesan M., Janakiraman, N., Mifan Careem,Damendra Pradeeper and Mahesh Kaluarachchi 370 A New Hybrid PSOGSA Algorithm for Function Optimization Seyedali Mirjalili and Siti Zaiton Mohd Hashim 374 xi  Control Software for Automated Microrobotic Paper Fiber Characterization Mathias von Essen, Seppo Kuikka and Pasi Kallio 378 A Visual Authoring Framework for Intelligent Flight Trainer GENG Xiaobing, LIU Sijiang, JIANG Yongshi and YANG Yiping 382 Comparison of Radiometry and Modified Periodogram Spectrum Detection inWireless Radio Networks P. Derakhshan-Barjoei, G. Dadashzadeh, F. Razzazi and S. Mohammad Razavizadeh 386 On The Miniaturization of Microstrip Line Fed Slot Antenna Using Various Slots Mustafa K. Taher Al-Nuaimi 390 An Efficient and Cost Effective Internetworking Setup for Research and Teaching Purpose Savitri Bevinakoppa 394 The Mobility Management Scheme Based on MP2P Dynamic Structure Model 


Fangfang Guo, Weiwei Xu and Bingyang Li 398 Research on Index Releasing in MP2P Based on Super-Peers Fangfang Guo, Jing Xu and Bingyang Li 402 ICCIA 2010 Session 7 Active Vibration Control of Inflated Space Stuctures using Smart Materials Kamel, M.A. and Weiliang He 406 Practical Precision Bound for Indoor Location Determination Yiming Ji 410 The Use of Genetic Algorithm for Designing Mimo Antenna Placement Peerapong Uthansakul, Danai Assanuk and Monthippa Uthansakul 414 Design and Implementation of Digital Campus Based on LBS and WSN Yunchen Jiang and Shanshan Wan 418 Process of Information Transmission in Varying Nano-microstructure Jun LU 422 An Implementation Framework of Globus Resource Management Model Based on Extended WS-Agreement QI Chao and ZHANG Xi 426 Performance of Switched-beam Antennas for Wireless Mesh Networks using Synchronous Collision Resolution Protocol Sineenart Panngam, Peerapong Uthansakul and Monthippa Uthansakul 430 A Multiple Frame Integration and Mathematical Morphology Based Technique for Video Text Extraction Lijie Li,Jin Li,Yang Song and Lei Wang 434 The Key Technologies of Painting Style Rendering Based on Image 438 xii  Li Zhen-ya Physical Layer Simulations of the Broadband Wireless LANs Based on OWSS Signalling Technique Guozhi Song and Laurie Cuthbert 442 Fluid Analysis of Gas-Liquid Two-Phase Flow Based on Semiconductor Laser 


Measurement and S Transform  446 Applying Grey Relational Analysis to Evaluating the Connection Degree of Various Factors in China Textile Industry Interior Ma Tao and Du Yuzhou 450 Automated Diagnosing of Nevus Flammeus Using OCT Raw Signal Yankui Sun and Chengkun Xue 453 Prediction of Day-ahead Electricity Price Based on Information Fusion Huixin Tian, Mu Zhang and Bo Meng 457 The Research and Realization of Multi-threaded Intelligent Test Paper Generation Based on Genetic Algorithm Ying Shan 461 Application of Virtual Reality Technology in Bridge Structure Safety Monitoring Dongwei Qiu and Lanfang Gao 465 Study on On-line Measurement System of Stone Slabs Based on OpenCV Zhao Min and Na Lihong 468 Author Index 471  Weixin Liu, Ningde Jin, Guozhi Song and Mingzhe Liu xiii          Organizing Committees Honorary Chair b f f f\f\f\b 


General Chair f!!\f  Organizing Chairs  f!!\f  f$% \f!!\f  Organizing Co-chairs f    f  f\f   f\f\f   f*!\f!\f.\f  f f  Program Committee Chairs  f\f\f   f!!\f  Publication Chair 0   


200 250 300  The size of dataset/10,000 R es po ns e tim e S    a 0 50 100 150 200  The size of dataset/10,000 R es po ns e tim e S    b 0 10 20 30 40 50 


60  The size of dataset/30,000 R es po ns e tim e S    c Fig. 9 The scalability of our algorithm compared with FP-growth  Paper [12] proposed a way to reduce times of scanning transaction database to reduce the cost of I/O IV. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK This paper first discusses the theory of foundations and association rules and presents an association rules mining algorithm, namely, FP-growth algorithm. And then we propose an improved algorithm IFP-growth based on many association rules mining algorithms. At last we implement the algorithm we propose and compare it with algorithm FPgrowth algorithm. The experimental evaluation demonstrates its scalability is much better than algorithm FP-growth 177 Now, lets forecast something we want to do someday Firstly, we would parallelize our algorithm, because data mining needs massive computation, and a parallelable environment could high improve the performance of the algorithm; Secondly, we would apply our algorithm on much more datasets and study the run performance; At last, we would study the performance when the algorithm deal with other kinds of association rules  REFERENCES 1] S. Sumathi and S. N. Sivanandam. Introduction to Data Mining and its Applications, Springer, 2006 2] V. J. Hodge, J. Austin, A survey of outlier detection 


methodologies, Artificial Intelligence Review, 2004, 22 85-126 3] Han, J. and M. Kamber. Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques. Morgan Kaufmann, San. Francisco, 2000 4] Jianchao Han, Mohsen Beheshti. Discovering Both Positive and Negative Fuzzy Association Rules in Large Transaction Databases, Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics 2006, 10\(3 5] Jiuyong Li, Hong Shen, Rodney Topor. Mining Informative Rule Set for Prediction. Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, 2004, 22\(2 6] Jianchao Han, and Mohsen Beheshti. Discovering Both Positive and Negative Fuzzy Association Rules in Large Transaction Databases. Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence, 2006, 10\(3 7] Doug Burdick, Manuel Calimlim, Jason Flannick Johannes Gehrke, Tomi Yiu. MAFIA: A Maximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2005, 17\(11 1504 8] Assaf Schuster, Ran Wolff, Dan Trock. A highperformance distributed algorithm for mining association rules. Knowledge and Information Systems, 2005, 7\(4 458-475 9] Mohammed J. Zaki. Mining Non-Redundant Association Rules. 2004, 9\(3 10] J.Han, J.Pei, Y.Yin, Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation, Proceedings ACM SIGMOD 2000 Dallas, TX, May 2000: 1-12 11] P.Viola, M.Jones. Rapid Object Detection Using A Boosted Cascade of Simple Features. Proc. IEEE Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2001 12] Anthony K. H. Tung, Hongjun Lu, Jiawei Han, Ling FengJan. Efficient Mining of Intertransaction Association Rules. 2003, 154\(1 178 


For each vertex b in g form j forests body\(a, g, i s.t. bodyAnt\(a, g, i a, g, i with itemsets Ant\(b b and each subset of itemsets Ant\(b b in P\(a, g, j Assign to each leaf l of trees bodyAnt\(a, g, i bodyCons\(a, g, i a fresh variable Vm,M, m, M = size\(itemset\(l Assign to each leaf l of tree headAnt\(a, g, j the variable assigned to itemset l in some leaf of some tree bodyCons\(a, g, i TABLE II.  EXPERIMENTAL DATA Conf. #rules #pruned #dftrs PtC 0.5 6604 2985 1114 0.6 2697 2081 25 0.75 1867 1606 10 0.8 1266 1176 0 0.95 892 866 1 0.98 705 699 1 DSP 0.5 2473 1168 268 0.6 1696 869 64 0.75 1509 844 89 0.8 1290 1030 29 0.95 1032 889 15 0.98 759 723 1 Arry 0.5 770 492 82 0.6 520 353 60 0.75 472 327 39 0.8 408 287 22 0.95 361 255 25 0.98 314 243 30  Our induction algorithm has been launched for each combination of thresholds. Our scheme eliminates all redundant rules in the sense of [25, 31], i.e. those association rules that are not in the covers. All the meta-rule deductive schemes implicitly included in [25] and [31] are induced by our method. The percentage of pruning, thus, outperforms [25 


The results produced for k=3, support 0.25 and confidences between 0.7 and 0.99 are shown in Fig. 3, in terms of pruning percentage \(vertical axis when applied to low confidences \(from 0.7 to 0.9 The percentage of pruning achieved diminishes as the confidence is superior to 0.9. Nevertheless, the pruning is effective with confidence of 0.99 in the majority of cases Pruning at Support = 0.25 0,00 5,00 10,00 15,00 20,00 25,00 30,00 35,00 40,00 45,00 50,00 0,7 0,8 0,9 0,95 0,99 Confidence P ru n in g L e v e l Case 1 Case 2 Case 3  Figure 3.  Pruning experiences at support 0.25  V. DISCUSSION AND CHALLENGES It is important to discuss the technique presented here with focus on the purpose the technique pursues:  to produce semantic recommendation The reader should have noticed that the algorithm presented 


relies strongly on "choice". For instance, the algorithm chooses ears in the graph to form an order for elimination, and the choice is arbitrary. This strategy is essential to maintain low complexity \(polynomial practical. Nevertheless, a warned reader may conclude that this arbitrary choice implies that there are many compactions to produce and therefore the approach as a whole does not show to produce an optimal solution. And the reader is right in this conclusion. Since the goal is compaction, the search for an optimal solution can be bypassed provided a substantial level of pruning is achieved To complete the whole view, we describe how web service descriptions are complemented with the association rules as recommendations. In effect, under our scheme, the document describing the web service is augmented with a set of OWL/RDF/S triples that only incorporate the non-pruned rules with the format of Example 1, that is, the set ARmin of the compaction program obtained by our algorithm, together with the thresholds applied to the mining process and a registered URI of a registered description service. The assumptions and defeaters are not added to the web service description. If the associations encoded in the triples are not sufficient for the client \(a search engine, for instance widening of the response to the description service identified by the given URI, and then the assumptions and defeaters are produced. The reasoning task required for deriving all the implicitly published rules is client responsibility Notice that, under this scheme, the actual rules that appear as members of the set initial ARmin set are irrelevant; the only important issue is the size of the set The developed scheme also supports an extension of the algorithm that admits the assignment of priorities to rules and to itemsets, in order to allow the user to produce a more controlled program as output. Nonetheless, the importance of the extension has not been already tested, and therefore it is beyond the subject of the present paper It would be also interesting to design a scheme that supports queries where the client provides an itemset class and values for support and confidence and the engine produces a maximal class of inferred associated itemsets as a response. This scheme is also under development, so we have not discussed this aspect here 


VI. CONCLUSION In this paper, we have presented a defeasible logic framework for managing associations that helps in reducing the number of rules found in a set of discovered associations. We have presented an induction algorithm for inducing programs in our logic, made of assumption schemas, a reduced set of association rules and a set of counter-arguments to conclusions called defeaters, guaranteeing that every pruned rule can be effectively inferred from the output. Our approach outperform those of [17], because all reduction compactions presented there can be expressed and induced in our framework, and several other patterns, particular to the given datasets, can also be found. In addition, since a set of definite clauses can be obtained from the induced programs, the knowledge obtained can be modularly inserted in a richer inference engine Abduction can be also attempted, asking for justifications that explain the presence of certain association in the dataset The framework presented can be extended in several ways Admitting defeaters to appear in the head of assumption, to define user interest Admitting arithmetic expressions within assumptions for adjustment in pruning Admitting set formation patterns as itemset constants Extending the scope, to cover temporal association rules REFERENCES 1]  R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant: Fast algorithms for mining association rules In Proc. Intl Conf. Very Large Databases. \(1994 2]  A. V. Aho, J. E. Hopcroft, J. Ullman. The design and analysis of computer algorithms, Addison-Wesley, 1974 3]  G. Antoniou, D. Billington, G. Governatori, M. J. Maher, A. Rock: A Family of Defeasible Reasoning Logics and its Implementation. ECAI 2000: 459-463 4]  G. Antoniou, D. Billington, G. Governatori, M. J. Maher: Representation results for defeasible logic. ACM Trans. Comput. Log. 2\(2 2001 5]  A. Basel, A. Mahafzah, M. Al-Badarneh: A new sampling technique for association rule mining, Journal of Information Science, Vol. 35, No. 3 358-376 \(2009 6]  R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal: Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc of the Fifth ACMSIGKDD Intl Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 145-154, \(1999 


7]  R. Bayardo, R. Agrawal, and D. Gunopulos: Constraint-based Rule Mining in Large, Dense Databases. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Journal, Vol. 4, Num-bers 2/3, 217-240. \(2000 8]  A. Berrado, G. Runger: Using metarules to organize and group discovered association rules. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Vol 14, Issue 3. \(2007 9]  S. Brin, R. Motwani, J. Ullman, and S. Tsur: Dynamic itemset counting and implication rules for market basket analysis. In Proc. ACMSIGMOD Intl Conf. Management of Data. \(1997 10] L. Cristofor and D.Simovici: Generating an nformative Cover for Association Rules. In ICDM 2002, Maebashi City, Japan. \(2002 11] Y. Fu and J. Han: Meta-rule Guided Mining of association rules in relational databases. In Proc. Intl Workshop on Knowledge Discovery and Deductive and Object-Oriented Databases. \(1995 12] B. Goethals, E. Hoekx, J. Van den Bussche: Mining tree queries in a graph. KDD: 61-69. \(2005 13] G. Governatori, D. H. Pham, S. Raboczi, A. Newman and S. Takur: On Extending RuleML for Modal Defeasible Logic. RuleML, LNCS 5321 89-103. \(2008  14] G. Governatori and A. Stranieri. Towards the application of association rules for defeasible rules discovery In Legal Knowledge and Information Systems, JURIX, IOS Press, 63-75. \(2001 15] J. Han, J. Pei and Y. Yin: Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation. In Proc. ACM-SIGMOD Intl Conf. Management of Data 2000 16] C. Hbert, B. Crmilleux: Optimized Rule Mining Through a Unified Framework for Interestingness Measures. DaWaK: LNCS 4081, 238247. \(2006 17] E. Hoekx, J. Van den Bussche: Mining for Tree-Query Associations in a Graph. ICDM 2006: 254-264 18] R. Huebner: Diversity-Based Interestingness Measures For Association Rule Mining. Proceedings of ASBBS Volume 16 Number 1, \(2009 19] B. Johnston, Guido Governatori: An algorithm for the induction of defeasible logic theories from databases. Proceedings of the 14th Australasian Database Conference, 75-83. \(2003 20] P. Kazienko: Mining Indirect Association Rules For Web Recommendation. Int. J. Appl. Math. Comput. Sci., Vol. 19, No. 1, 165 186. \(2009 21] M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H. Toivonen, and A Verkamo: Finding interesting rules from large sets of discovered association rules. In Proc. 3rd Intl Conf. on Information and Knowledge 


Management. \(1994 22] M. J. Maher, A. Rock, G. Antoniou, D. Billington, T. Miller: Efficient Defeasible Reasoning Systems. International Journal on Artificial Intelligence Tools 10\(4 2001 23] C. Marinica, F. Guillet, and H. Briand: Post-Processing of Discovered Association Rules Using Ontologies. The Second International Workshop on Domain Driven Data Mining, Pisa, Italy \(2008 24] N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R. Taouil, and L. Lakhal: Closed sets based discovery of small covers for association rules. In Proc. BDA'99 Conference, 361-381 \(1999 25] N. Pasquier, R. Taouil, I. Bastide, G. Stume, and  L. Lakhal: Generating a Condensed Representation for Association Rules. In Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, 24:1, 29-60 \(2005 26] P. Pothipruk, G. Governatori: ALE Defeasible Description Logic Australian Conference on Artificial Intelligence.  110-119 \(2006 27] J. Sandvig, B. Mobasher Robustness of collaborative recommendation based on association rule mining, Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Recommender Systems \(2007 28] W. Shen, K. Ong, B. Mitbander, and C. Zaniolo: Metaqueries for data mining. In Fayaad, U. et al. Eds. Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. \(1996 29] I. Song, G. Governatori: Nested Rules in Defeasible Logic. RuleML LNCS 3791, 204-208 \(2005 30] H. Toivonen, M. Klemettinen, P. Ronkainer, K. Hatonen, and H Mannila: Pruning and grouping discovered association rules. In ECML Workshop on Statistics, Machine Learning and KDD. \(1995 31] M. Zaki: Generating Non-Redundant Association Rules. In Proc. of the Sixth ACMSIGKDD Intl Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 34-43, \(2000 32] w3c. OWL Ontology Web Language Reference. In http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-owl-ref-20040210 33] w3c. RDF/XML Syntax Specification. In: http://www.w3.org/TR/rdfsyntax-grammar 34] w3c. RDF Schema. In: http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema      


 8   2  3\f            8  D    F  \b 1 8 & #J      b 1  1  4    2  


4 1    9  E 1  2 4 1    9 1   4      8 2  8 1  D 1        1 1  b 


     b b b b b  K            8          2 D 9   F  \b 1 8 ,+J  9 


     b 1     1 2  9 1  12 L 1   9  8       1  2      2   


     b b b b b  K            2  0 \b f  b\f      9       


  8 2   E 1   1     M13 31L 1    b  8E 1   1 #3\b?### 1  1     E 1   1 \b?###3        


1   1   b 1  2 2 18 2     8              1    2 \b 1    2  


    2          2   1 L 2 1   1   L 2 2    2 1  2        


    8  2H D \b A             2  2H D \b A 2 \f 3%\f  f   4%\f f !  , \f\b  C    2    2 


 6    3 1      253 6   1 L 2    6   1         f\b3\f       


               1     1     8 2    E       2  1   


     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


