Process Recommendation Based on Association Rules and Transaction Context  Min Yao, Bin Cao College of Computer Science and Technology Zhejiang University Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China yaomin, caobin}@zju.edu.cn Jianwei Yin College of Computer Science and Technology Zhejiang University Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China zjuyjw@zju.edu.cn   Abstract 227 This paper proposes a new process recommendation approach on supplying some related processes for choice when users start their business. The 
process recommendation model is based on the association rules and transaction context, and it aims at mining the potential associated relationship between processes, which can help organizations and users to improve their work efficiency. In this paper we not only describe the algorithm of realizing this model in details, but also carry out some experiments to find out the factors that affect the efficiency of recommending in our model  Keywords-process; recommendation system; assosiated rules transaction context I   I NTRODUCTION H EADING 
1  Business Intelligence \(BI\e tool that turns the corporation\222s current data to the knowledge and then helps the corporation to make the wise business decision. On the other hand, in recent years, the Business Process Management BPM\ technology is widely applied in many corporations which makes the corporations easier for understanding analyzing, realizing and improving their business process, and actually many corporations or organizations have built their relevant process library. Now most of corporations quite hope that they can integrate their business process with BI systems 
so that to help improving the efficiency At present, there are three kinds of integration of BI products and BPM: BI is over the process, BI is embedded into the process and event-driven BI, which respectively means: BI uses the process as the data source, BI is used when implementing the process and BI uses the process to increase the information that supply to the users. However, the abovementioned modes of integration only take certain information of process into consideration, based on which, the management adjust the internal resources of certain processes or improve some links of them, but they do not analyze the associated relationship between those processes, therefore they 
cannot discover the hidden information which is helpful for users This paper proposes a fire-new process recommendation method based on the association rules and transaction context in order to recommend the correlative appropriate processes to organizations and users, so that they can quickly learn the needed combination of business processes, and finally achieve the high operation efficiency for enterprises and quick launch of related business process for users In the field of data mining, applying the association rules technology can well find the associated or mutual relationship between data items. In this paper, we creatively combine the 
association rules technology with transaction context and then use them in the process recommendation to find the behavior patterns of users when they make or use the workflow processes, meanwhile to explore the association rules between the processes and then filter and recommend them to achieve the final purpose of process recommendation The reminder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce two scenarios of applying the process recommendation model that we propose. And then some related works done by other scholars are briefly introduced in Section 3. In Section 4, we show the algorithm of process recommendation in details, including definition and pseudo 
code. In Section 5, several experiments are conducted to validate the proposed model and algorithm. The last section concludes the whole paper and presents some future research directions II  M OTIVATING S CENARIO  In order to describe the necessity of our proposed process recommendation approach, we will show two scenarios 2.1  Business Process Designers Scenario When business process designers need to make some processes, they always confine themselves in their stark thought. So in order to change this situation, we can use 
process recommendation to thes e process makers. That is according to the processes whic h a corporation has made, try to find other processes which other corporations always make when they have made the same processes, and then recommend the found processe s result to the corporation process makers for choice. The scenario is illustrated as Figure1 978-1-4244-7255-0/11/$26.00 \2512011 IEEE 


2.2  Process Users Scenario In general, when users participate in or apply for a business, they usually go to retrieve the appropriate process library to find related business processes as a reference, and then start the retrieved process to meet or fulfill their business needs. However, sometimes, in order to participate in a certain business, users need to start multiple processes. On the other hand, after applying for certain business, users may also need to apply for some other related business, which means, users may need to start some related processes when they have started certain processes. Hen ce, according to the processes that users start, we recommend the related processes to users by using our proposed process recommendation method. This scenario is also illustrated as Figure 1. Designers/Users    Figure 1.  Process Makers/Starters Scenario   As the two scenarios described above, the usage of process recommendation model supplies the valid recommendation information of related processes for users, and then it will help corporations and users to improve the operation efficiency, as well as to break limitation of thinking III  R ELATED W ORK  As the developing of Internet, the recommendation technology is becoming a hot point of research, and many kinds of recommender systems \(RS\ have been developed as well. Mooney and Roy proposed a RS based on the content for book recommendation o r m o v i e an d n e w s  recommendation, Konstan, Miller, et al. developed a RS applying collaborative filtering g et al. propos ed a R S  also based on collaborative filtering for e-commerce sites by analyzing customer navigational patterns [5 cco rd in g to th e  similarities between web resources and users’ interests Webpersonalizer designed a RS to recommend web information i a n d Zh ong propos ed a w e b m i n i ng  m o del  for extracting approximate concepts hidden in user profiles and gathering information, so that it could make recommendation more efficient [6  e on g et al prop os ed a  novel approach in which customer buying behavior were taken in consideration to improve the quality of RS based on collaborative filtering [10 Kag i e et al. d e si g n e d a g r ap h i c shopping interface to recommend the similar products. Based on product attributes, this RS represents the mutual similarities of recommended products in a two dimensional ma  About the integration of RS and workflow process, there are some scholars to research this area too. Zhen et al. proposed a workflow-based RS model on supplying proper knowledge to proper members in collaborative team contexts rather than daily life scenarios. In this recommendation system, it used the information about relationships among members, roles and tasks that workflow in collaborative team contains and collaborative filtering to obtain members’ demands for knowledge [3 I n or de r t o r eco mm e n d  a c o rr ec t  node  Zha n g e t  al. proposed a new workflow recommendation technique called FlowRecommender. It could produce a correct recommendation of the next node even if the upstream nodes/sub-paths were not immediately connected with this node [9 IV  A LGORITHM  In this section, we will discuss in details the algorithm of our proposed process recommendation which use the association rules technology and transaction context 4.1  Definitions and Conceptions Process Item Set The process item set is the set of some process schemes. Suppose   12   n Fff f  is a process item set then  1 2,3  i f in  represents a specific process scheme Process Transaction The process transaction is the set of process instances that a company has made or user has started A process transaction and its cont ext form a record in process library. Suppose there is a process transaction, we sign as T then TF  where F is the set of all process items. Every process transaction has the only identification Process Transaction Set The process transaction set is a set of kinds of process transactions. Suppose there is a process transaction set signed as D, and 12     n D TT T  in this formula  1 2,3  i Ti n  represents a process transaction Process Associated Rule The process associated rule is formatted as in which A and B are process item sets, and we have A F   B F   AB  There are two parameters to describe the attribute of process associated rule a\onfidence The confidence measures the degree that the rule would be believed. Let A and B are two process item sets. For process transaction set, signed as D, we have AD  B D   AB  Then the confidence of AB could be defined as the following formulae count of transaction including A and B A B count of transaction including A Confidence   1 The confidence shows the probability of process item set B appears when process item set A appears in process transaction set D. For example the corporation that uses the process of produce-control has the probability of 90% to use the process of produce-dispatch. This relationship can be expressed as  Confidence produce-control produce-dispatch 


 Input Process Library L the Context M that user belongs process set S  that have been made or started Output the process set recommended D transactions set whose context is M in process library L C1 Candidate1-itemsets  Find all frequent process item set L1 = {c C1| c.sup min_sup For\(k=2;Lk-1 k  Ck = sc_candidate\(Lk-1,min_sup forall transactions t D Ct = subset\(Ck,t\find Candidate Set in transactions t forall candidates c Ct do c.sup Lk = {c Ck|c.sup min_sup return L k Lk  Mine Associated Rules for all k in L k is the k-frequent process items set for all k  k if\(conf k  m minConf AR = AR  k  m return AR  General Recommendation Set if S is Empty then s_recommend = max_support\(L1 else s_recommend = search_Rules \(S,AR\;  //return the processes that are associated rules of S in AR return s recommend  b\upport  This parameter describes the probability that process item sets A and B appear at the same time in all the process transactions. The support of A B is defined as the following formulae countof transaction including A and B  count of all transactions Support A B  2  For instance, in a process library, there are 1000 business works which amount to process transactions. Among these business works, there are 100 works use the process of produce-control and produce-dispatch at the same time. Then the support of “produce-control process produce-dispatch process” is 10 Frequent Process Item Set The frequent process item set is the item set of process items whose support is bigger than or equal to the minimal support \(signed as min_sup\hat users set Strong Associated Rule among Processes This rule is the associated rule that the support and confidence both are bigger than or equal to the minimal support and minimal confidence signed as min_conf Process Transaction Context This means the users environment of applying process transactions. In this paper, it mainly refers to the types of business that users first use the process to deal with 4.2  Algorithm Base on the definition and conception above, we propose the process recommendation method which integrates the association rules and transactio n context. The procedures of this method will be described step by step as following 1  Collect Recommendation Data Resource Collect process library data that each corporation establishes or user uses Store the mapping relationship of the corporations or users with their corresponding processes transaction as well as the transaction context which they belong to in the database, so that to form the process data set which will be recommended 2  Classify Data Set Classify the process data set that collected in the first step acco rding to process transaction context. This step will actually reduce the scope of the data set considered, in order to avoid ge nerating the invalid associated rules, so that it can recommend credible and useful information to the users  3  Mine Associated Rules Based on the data set after the above classifying, we deal with every classification as the two following phases a  Find all the frequent process item sets According to the definition ahead and basic conception, the frequency of these process item sets is bigger than or at least equals to the minimal support that users defined at first  b  General strong associated rules from frequent process item sets Among the frequent process item sets that found from the phase a, find rules that confidence is bigger than or equals to the minimal confidence users defined, and then get the strong associated rules between the processes  4  General Recommendation Set and Recommend Based on the process strong associated rules mined by step 3 and the situation of processes made or started, we can recommend relative processes to users  a  No processes have been made or started In this situation, there is no process as a reference, which could be thought as the cold start problem, so then we can recommend the processes that have the maximal support in the user’s domain, according to the transaction context  b  Some processes have been made or started. In this case, just find the relative processes in the associated rules, at the same time, take the transaction context into consideration and then get recommendation set, and recommend to users The whole algorithm is presented in Figure 2 Figure 2. Algorithm Pseudo code 


V  E XPERIMENTAL E VALUATION  In this section, we show experimental evaluation of the technique that we propose for process recommendation. The experiments are set in the environment of Windows Win7 operating system with a main memory of 2G, the program is developed in Java, and the database is MySQL 5.1  Design of Experiments We set these experiments in order to realize the process recommendation system that we introduce, and then make further efforts to find the factors that affect the efficiency of recommending In experiments, we simulate some process data of the reality, and then insert them into the database to form the process library. The process ite ms are collected from many companies used. Then choose several process items randomly to constitute a transaction; besides, set one parameter of the transaction to marker its context. So do these operations above for cycle thousands of times, and then it will form a huge process library, based on which we set our experiments We guess the factors affected the efficiency of recommending being the size of set of all process items, the maximum number that one transaction contains process items and the number of whole transactions. It touches upon three variables, so we set two variables fixed every experiment, and then research the relationship between the other variable and the efficiency. We use the time that from beginning to generating the final recommending process set and the number of strong associated rules mined to represent the efficiency of our recommending system 5.2  Experimental Result and Analyzing We set the minimal support and confidence both to be 20% uniformly in experiments so that to get a clear result 1  Size of Process Item set and Efficiency To get the relation between the size of process items and the efficiency of recommendation, we fix the number of transactions to be 10000, which means there are 10000 transactions in the process library, and the size of transaction to be 15, which means one transaction can contain 15 process items at most. The result is illustrated by Figure 3. From Figure 3, we can see that number of strong associated rules generated becomes smaller as the size of process items getting bigger; and the time of generating result is almost unchanged This is because, when the size of process item set becomes bigger, it means that the combination of process items in one transaction is getting more. This would lead to that the frequent process item set which satisfy the minimal support getting smaller, and finally lead to the reduction of strong associated rules number  Figure 3. Size of process item set and efficiency 2  Size of Transaction and Efficiency In this experiment, we also fix the number of transactions to be 10000 and the size of process item set to be 10. Figure 4 shows the relationship between the size of transaction and the efficiency. We can see that as the size of one transaction getting bigger, the number of strong associated rules generated becomes bigger too, and the time is almost unchanged the same with the last experiment. The reason is that, when the number of process items one transaction containing is bigger the process items that transactions overlap become more. This means there are more chance to satisfy the minimal support and confidence, and finally to improve the number of strong associated rules  Figure 4. Size of transaction and efficiency 3  Number of Transactions and Efficiency We fix the size of transaction to be 15 and the size of process item set to be 10 in this experiment to get the relationship between the number of transactions and efficiency. As showing in Figure 5, the result is that, as the number of transactions increasing, the number of strong associated rules mined reduces and the time increases. This 


can be explained that, with the increase in the number of transactions, the denominator of generating frequent process item set becomes bigger, and then lead to the frequent process item set becomes smaller, and so does strong associated rules number. And the time increases too, with the increase in the number of transactions   Figure 5. Number of transactions and efficiency From these experiments, we can see that the efficiency of our recommending system is proportional to the size of transaction, and inverse to the size of process item set and the number of transactions. The time of generating result is proportional to the number of transactions, but not related to the other two factors basically VI  C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK  In this paper, we propose a new process recommendation approach based on the association rules and transaction context to mine the associated relationship between processes so that to help organizations and users to improve their work efficiency. And then we describe the algorithm of realizing this model in details However, there exist some limitations for the current model and algorithm, which need further studies in future 1  The method that we propose to mine he associated relationship is only based on the association rules and transaction context. And we can try other methods to mine in future, for example, collaborative filtering and so on 2  The algorithm to mine associated rules in Section 4 is not so good both in time complexity or space complexity. On the other hand, when some new records are added to the process library, the algorithm will need to calculate again from beginning to obtain the new associated rules. This efficiency is quite low, and we would do something to improve the algorithm performance A CKNOWLEDGMENT   Research was supported by the National Key Science and Technology Research Program of China \(No.2011ZX01039-001002 and No.2009ZX01043-003-003\ and the National Supporting Science and Technology Research Program of China\(No.2008BAH27B00  R EFERENCES  1  M. Kagie, M. van Wezel, P.J.F. Groenen, A graphical shopping interface 2008 265 276 2  R.J. Mooney, L. Roy, Content-based book recommending using learning for text categorization, In Proceedings of the ACM international conference on digital libraries, San Antonia, Texas, USA 2000 195 204 3  L. Zhen, G. Q. Huang, Z. Jiang, Recommender system based on workflow, Decision Support Systems 48 \(2009\ 237 245 4  J. Konstan, B. Miller, D. Maltz, J. Herlocker, L. Gordon, J. Riedl GroupLens: applying collaborative filtering to usenet news 1997 87 5  S.K. Yong, B.J. Yum, J. Song, M.K. Su, Development of a recommender system based on navigational and behavioral patterns of customers in e-commerce sites, Expert Systems with Applications 28 2005\ 381 393 6  Y. Li, N. Zhong, Web mining model and its applications for information gathering, Knowledge-Based Systems 17 \(2004\ 207 217 7  Y. Li, N. Zhong, Mining ontology for automatically acquiring web user information needs, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 18 \(2006 568 8  B. Mobasher, R. Cooley, J. Srivastava, Automatic personalization based on web u sage mining, Communications of the ACM 43 \(8\ \(2000\ 142 151 9  J. Zhang, Q. Liu, K. Xu, FlowRecommender: AWorkflow Recommendation Technique for Process Provenance, the Eighth Australasian Data Mining Conference \(AusDM 2009\, 1-4 Dec 2009   B.C. Yeong, H.C. Yoon, H.K. Soung, Mining changes in customer buying behavior for collaborative recommendations, Expert Systems with Applications 28 \(2005\359 369  


Poria cocos Artemisia capillaris Hawthorn IV Poria cocos 90.30 29.65 1.73 132 Poor appetite radix bupleuri   Fructus gardeniae 82.51 9.52 7.88 159 Yellow body 93.21 12.90 1.13 189 Yellow face and eyes Polygonum cuspidatum  Artemisia capillaris  Fructus gardenia  Semen Plantaginis  Herba Lysimachiae  Herba Eupatorii depression of the liver Herba Lysimachiae Radix astragali Radix codonopsis Confidence Support Enhance Counts Rules Confidence Support Enhance Counts Rules Correlation between viral hepatitis symptoms and Chinese medical herbs \(quadric correlation The main syndrome differentiation is stagnation of pathogenic dampness, and stagnation of QI due to depression of the liver, spleen deficiency and lack of intaking, spleen deficiency and liver stagnation, colddampness retention and other syndrome can also be observed. The main treatment method is clearing heat and eliminating dampness, and soothing the live and relieving depression, strengthening the spleen and replenishing Qi harmonizing the liver and spleen and dissipating dampness with aromatic drugs are used for treatment by syndrome differentiation. For herb prescription, stagnation of pathogenic dampness and heat is similar to that of Artemisia capillaries decoction, Polyporus umbellatus Semen Coicis, Semen Plantaginis, Herba Eupatorii and Poria cocos can be used for patients of serious dampness Artemisia capillaris, Herba Lysimachiae, Fructus gardeniae Polygonum cuspidatum, Cortex Phellodendri, Poria cocos and Semen Plantaginis are generally used for removing jaundice; Herba Oldenlandiae is usually used for active 83.71 13.30 1.13 196 Abdominal distention  86.23 29.41 1.68 145 Abdominal distention  Stagnation of QI due to   Artemisia capillaris  Fructus gardeniae  Lysimachia christinae Hance  Rhizoma cyperi  Fructus gardeniae  Artemisia capillaris  radix bupleuri 93.21 12.90 1.13 189 Stagnation of pathogenic dampness and heat 90.00 13.30 1.73 173 Stagnation of pathogenic dampness and heat 91.78 29.65 1.68 132 Stagnation of pathogenic dampness and heat 83.71 26.41 1.13 103 82.51 29.65 1.13 123 Stagnation of QI due to depression of the liver 93.21 29.41 1.36 194 Yellow urine 82.51 29.65 1.13 123 Yellow urine 93.21 12.70 1.36 179 Yellow body 90.00 13.30 1.27 146 Fatigue 90.00 12.90 1.13 103 Fatigue 83.71 58.82 1.36 112 Poor appetite 91.78 29.65 1.68 164 Edema 88.70 12.90 1.13 134 Edema 76.70 29.65 1.13 83 Stagnation of QI due to depression of the liver 82.51 12.90 1.27 93 Yellow urine 83.71 26.41 1.13 103 Hypochondriac pain  82.51 29.41 1.13 83 Poor appetite Semen Coicis 789 CONCLUSION The pathogenic factors of influenza \(including influenza A H1N1\mainly wind, cold and heat, and also related to Qi deficiency, Yin deficiency and other physical factors The common clinical symptoms are chills, fever, headache sneezing, nasal congestion, runny nose, cough and expectoration. The main syndrome differentiation is invasion of the superficies by wind-heat, retention of windcold in superficies and damage due to summer-heat and dampness and other syndromes can also be observed. The main treatment method is he at-clearing an d detoxification with pungent and cool-natured drugs, and diaphoresis with drugs of pungent flavor and warm nature and clearing summer-heat and dissipating dampness can also used according to the syndrome. For herbal prescription, the medication for wind-heat syndrome is similar to that of Yinqiao San, Flos lonicerae, Fructus Forsythiae and radix scutellariae are mostly used; the medication for wind-cold syndrome is similar to that of Jingfang Baidu San, and Ramulus Cinnamomi and herba ephedrae are mostly used Herba Moslae, Artemisia annua, rhizoma coptidis and rhizoma atractylodis are usually used for summer-heat and dampness syndrome; herba ephedrae, Ramulus Cinnamomi herba schizonepetae and Radix Saposhnikoviae are used for aversion to cold;  Fructus Forsythiae, flos lonicerae, radix scutellariae and radix bupleuri are used for fever notopterygium root and Ramulus Cinnamomi are used for headache; herba schizonepetae, Radix Saposhnikoviae and herba ephedrae are used for sneeze  and nasal obstruction and running nose; radix platycodonis and Radix Stemonae is added for cough, and radix scutellariae and Radix trichosanthis are added for large amount and yellow sputum The pathogenic factors of viral hepatitis are mainly heat pathogen and dampness pathogen, and also related to spleen deficiency, liver deficiency, Yin deficiency and other physical factors. The main clinical manifestations are jaundice, poor appetite, fatigue, yellow urine and hypochondriac pain TABLE XIV Poria cocos Magnolia officinalis 90.00 13.30 1.73 173 Yellow face and eyes  83.71 29.65 1.68 132 Yellow face and eyes  82.51 31.17 1.36 123 Yellow face and eyes  


J.W. Chen, J Zhang, D.W. Wu et al, \215Development of experience data warehouse for FDHss in treatment of major infectious diseases and construction its intelligent mining platform\216 Fuzhou, China 2009, 40 \(20\.38-40 3 Y.B. Li, Y. Yang, M. Cui, et al, \215Data mining of the information of 664 cases of uterine bleeding medical cases\216 Chinese Journal of Information on Traditional Chinese Medicine Fujian Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine        Thus, from the data mining results, the experience common understanding of FHDs in prevention and treatment of infectious diseases can be found, which can provide a reference basis for herbal prescription of clinical practice and is helpful for heritage and development of academic thinking of FHDs V experience against infectious diseases is the useful explore in this area. In addition, the results of data mining can also provide a reference for the consensus program of infectious diseases prevention and treatment expert or the development of diagnosis and treatment guideline, for example: the data mining technology was used in Traditional Chinese Medicine Prevention programs for H1N1 influenza \(2009 Edition 6  In summary, the application of data mining techniques in the study of the type of literature information of FHDs can greatly improve the utilization efficiency of medical cases, medical works, papers, expert interview contents of FDHs, thus contributing to the conciseness and inheritance of the academic experience of FHDs; also contribute to the formation of theory, treatment guidelines or consensus program for guiding clinical practice However, data mining techniques also have limitations Firstly, data mining, the use of data mining techniques in analysis of literature type data is still in its starting stage with no mature application framework formed yet Secondly, syndrome differentiation and treatment requires individual treatment programs, but treatment simply based on computer technology can not completely replace the individualized academic ideas of FHDs. Thus, although the data mining techniques \(such as text mining etc.\ is continuing to make progress, the results obtained through mining of literature type information still requires processing and supplementation of human brain ACKNOWLEDGMENT This research was supported by the 11th five years key special projects for National Science and Technology L. Ma, \215Comparative study of cluster analysis based on data mining and traditional cluster analysis\216 Beijing, China, 2008, 21\(5\, pp.530-531 6 Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques toxic heat. If accompanied by stagnation of QI due to depression of the liver, then radix bupleuri, Rhizoma Cyperi, Magnolia officinalis and Fructus gardeniae are added appropriately. Rhizoma Cyperi and Radix bupleuri can be used for hypochondriac pain; Radix codonopsis Poria cocos, Pericarpium Citri Reticulatae, Semen Coicis and hawthorn are mostly used for spleen deficiency. Radix codonopsis and radix astragali are usually used for Qi deficiency; Fructus aurantii, Magnolia officinalis and Pericarpium Citri Reticulatae can be used for abdominal distention; pachyma cocos, hawthorn, Herba Eupatorii and Radix codonopsis can be used for appetite; pachyma cocos and Semen Coicis are usually used for edema China Machine Press, Beijing. China, 2006 5 Beijing, China, 2011 20 \(4\ pp.42-47 2  Journal of Mathematical Medicine J.W. Han Chinese Journal of Medical Library and Information Science Project No.:2008ZX10005-013 and 2009ZX10001-018 REFERENCES 1 X.J. Li, T.S. Zhang, S. Zhang, et al, \215Data mining in exploring the medication laws of Dong Jianhua for treatment of senile diseases\216 Beijing, China, 2009 16 \(11\, pp.95-96 4 DISCUSSION With the explosive growth of information, data mining technology has been widely used in finance telecommunications, insurance, retails, medical science and other fields. In recent years, the combination of the technology with the research of traditional Chinese medicine has become more closely and has penetrated deeply into the analysis of medical literature, which is of great significance for learning of Chinese medical cases Medical monographs and the excavation and succession of the academic ideas of FDHs. Application of the data mining technology in exploring the FDHs State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine of People\220s Republic of China, Traditional Chinese Medicine Prevention programs for H1N1 influenza \(2009 Edition http://www.satcm.gov.cn/web2010/zhengwugongkai/yizhengguanli gongzuodongtai/2010-10-11/9915.html 790 


Target values have different meanings for different data mining problems Now, let us consider the application of strati?ed sampling and Neyman allocation to differential rule mining and association mining. For differential rule mining in the form of A = a D1\(t t D1\(t t denote the number of data records sampled across the strata, and ni denote the number of data records drawn from the ith stratum The size of population containing tuples under the space of A = a is denoted by Ni for the ith stratum. Now, let the expression y denote D1\(t t average of the ith stratum. Then, using strati?ed sampling, the mean value of y is estimated as ys H i=1 Ni N yi \(1 It turns out that ys is an unbiased estimation , which implies that E\(ys y variance for ys is 2s H i=1 N2i N2  ni 2 i \(2 In the stratum whose variance is unknown, ?2i is estimated by 326 sample variance, i.e S2i  y2ij ni   yij ni  


Here, yij is a sampled record from the ith stratum These expressions are also applied to association rule mining in the form of A = a ? Y , with the goal being to estimate the con?dence supports\(A=a?Y A=a the expression y to denote whether Y is contained in the data record under the space of A = a: if the data record under space of A = a contains Y , let y = 1; otherwise, y = 0. The con?dence for the association rule is calculated by estimating the mean value of y based on Expression 1, and the variance of estimation for the con?dence over the entire population is still calculated by Expression 2 Formally, with Neyman allocation, the sample allocation can be stated as ni n j=1Nj?j Ni?i \(3 where ?i are calculated as described above While Neyman Allocation ef?ciently reduces the variance of estimation, it does not consider the sampling cost in the deep web. Speci?cally, sampling cost is de?ned as the number of queries submitted to deep web data sources in order to obtain a ?xed number of data records under the particular space. We assume that for each query submitted to the deep web, a single data record is obtained. In the process of sampling data records corresponding to A = a over the deep web, the probability of A = a in each stratum is not considered in Neyman allocation \(or other existing methods that a large sample might have to be drawn from a stratum where the probability of a data element satisfying A = a is small. This will result in a high sampling cost The following example shows the inef?ciency of Neyman Allocation in the case of differential rule mining on the deep web. For a rule A = a ? D1\(t t three strata. The columns one through four of the Table I show the stratum ID, population size \(Ni of D1\(t t being true in any given record in this stratum TABLE I EXAMPLE OF APPLICATION OF NEYMAN ALLOCATION FOR DEEP WEB MINING ID Size Variance Probability of A = a Sample size 


1 800 10000 0.9 100 2 800 40000 0.8 200 3 800 90000 0.1 300 By assuming that the total sample size is 600, the sample size ni according to Neyman Allocation for each stratum is shown in the ?fth column of Table I. According to the Expression 2, the resulting estimation is 66.67, and the estimated sampling cost is 3361.1. In this example, the sampling cost is very high, because a large sample is allocated to the stratum 3, which happens to have a low probability of A = a. If we could allocate a smaller sample to the stratum 3 and a larger sample to the strata 1 and 2, the sampling costs would be decreased, though possibly with some increase in the sampling variance C. Our Approach As we stated in the previous section, randomly constructing and submitting queries can not ensure that the output results contain data records within the space of A = a. Thus, ef?ciently acquiring samples under the space of output attribute A = a and accurately estimating the parameters \(con?dence or mean value challenging problems Since sampling on the deep web can only be performed by constructing and submitting queries, strati?cation needs to be performed on the query space, i.e., involving input attributes only. In order to ef?ciently acquire samples under the space of a speci?c value of an output attribute \(i.e. A = a between input attributes and output attributes is important. In other words, we need to know which input queries are more likely to yield output web pages containing tuples under the space of A = a. Furthermore, in order to accurately estimate the parameters \(con?dence or mean value under the space of A = a, similar values of target attributes under A = a are required to be in the same group. For this purpose we are proposing a greedy strati?cation method. Our method considers both ef?ciency and accuracy, so that input queries that are more likely to yield output web pages containing tuples under the space of A = a are identi?ed, and similar values of target attributes under A = a are grouped in the same sub-population In our approach, the relation of input attribute and output attribute as well as the data distribution of target attributes are learnt from the pilot sample The second component of our approach is a novel sample 


allocation method. To ef?ciently acquire samples under the space of output attribute A = a, large sample should be drawn from the query subspace that is more likely to yield output web pages containing tuples under the space of A = a. On the other side, to accurately estimate the parameters \(con?dence or mean value target attributes under the space of A = a, a large sample should be drawn from the query subspace that has a larger variance of the target value under the space of A = a. We have developed an optimized sample allocation algorithm which integrates the two aspects \(ef?ciency and accuracy IV. MAIN TECHNICAL APPROACH In this section, we introduce our strati?ed sampling approach in the context of association rule mining and differential rule mining on deep web data sources. As we stated earlier, our approach comprises of a strati?cation method and a sample allocation method. These are described in the next two subsections. Towards the end of this section, we describe how differential rule mining can be performed using these two methods A. A Greedy Strati?cation Method Strati?cation refers to partitioning the population being sampled. Traditional strati?cation methods such as Recursive strati?ed sampling [22], [8] aim at grouping similar values into the 327 Algorithm 1 Strati?cation\(N,Q, PS, s, Lf 1: Cost\(N N N 2: if Cost\(N 3:  integrated cost is smaller than 4: Lf = Lf ?N 5: else 6:  partition the query space of N 7: splitCost ? maxV alue 8: M ? null 9: for all IA ? PS do 10: CH ?strata generated by IA 11: Cost\(CH CH CH 12: if Cost\(CH 13: splitCost=Cost\(CH 14: M=IA 15: end if 16: end for 17: DM ? domain of M 18: ASM ? sample allocation 


19: for all mi ? DM do 20: Strati?cation\(CHi, Q ? {M = mi}, PS ?M,asi, Lf 21: end for 22: end if same subpopulation, in order to maximally reduce variance of estimation. As we have stated previously, two related issues make the sampling for a deep web data source different. The ?rst is because of the limited access to the database, i.e., samples can only be obtained by querying through a simple interface Thus, obtaining additional samples meeting A = a is non-trivial Second, ef?ciency of sampling is an important consideration since each deep web query is slowed down due to the data delivery delay between the server and the client We now describe our greedy strati?cation method which partitions the population of the deep web recursively. Strati?cation is performed on the query space composed of input attributes in the query interface. In other words, the population of a deep web source can be considered to correspond to the entire query space, and the subpopulations correspond to query subspaces More precisely, a subpopulation comprises of the data records that can be obtained by submitting queries from the corresponding subspace To establish this correspondence, the relationship between input attributes and output attributes is learnt from the pilot sample. In this fashion, the subpopulations or strata that are more likely to contain tuples where A = a is true are identi?ed. We de?ne sampling cost to be the estimated number of data records that will need to be drawn from the deep web, in order to obtain a speci?ed number of records where A = a is true. Let ?i represents the probability of ?nding a data record with A = a in the stratum i. This value can be estimated based on the pilot sample. Thus, to obtain ni data records where A = a is true in ith stratum, the estimated number of data records drawn from ith stratum is ni?i . Overall, in order to obtain our desired n data records where A = a is true from the entire population, the estimated sampling cost will be SampCost  i ni i 4 


While focusing on the sample cost and using the strata that are more likely to contain tuples where A = a is clearly important, variance of estimation is another important issue, since it corresponds to the error of estimation. Thus, we de?ne the integrated cost by taking into account the variance of estimation 2s and the sampling cost SampCost Cost = ?s  SampCost + ?v  ?2s \(5 where ?s and ?v are weights for sampling cost and estimate variance, respectively, such that their sum is 1. Users could set the two weights based on the importance they attach to these two factors. For example, if response to a query is needed quickly sampling cost should have a higher weightage The relation between input attributes and output attributes, as well as data distribution, are modeled by a tree built on the query space recursively. Each node in the tree represents a query subspace, and is associated with a query that comprises speci?c values for a subset of input attributes, the sample size, as well as the potential splitting attributes. The sample size shows how many data records would be drawn from the subpopulation of the node Algorithm 1 shows the process of splitting a node N , which as we stated above, is associated with the query Q, the sample size s, and a list of potential splitting attributes, PS. The inputs of the algorithm also include set Lf , which represents leaf nodes of the tree. At the beginning, the entire query space is represented by the root node. The corresponding query of the root node is null the sample size n is the size of the sample that is to be drawn from the entire population, and the potential splitting attributes list is the complete set of input attributes of this data source. The initial set of leaf nodes is empty The main goal of the algorithm is to split the query tree in a greedy way. For each potential splitting attribute, the integrated cost after splitting is computed according to the Expression 5. The input attribute which brings the most reduction in the integrated cost is selected. More speci?cally, ?rst, the integrated cost for the subpopulation of the node N is calculated. If this value is smaller than a prede?ned threshold ?, node N is set to be a leaf node \(Lines 2-5 considering the set of potential splitting attributes PS \(Lines 621 would be |DIA| strata under the space of node N . The integrated cost on |DIA| strata is computed. Let M ? PS with domain DM 


denote the input attribute with the minimum integrated cost after the split, and let the set of allocated sample sizes, computed by the sample allocation method explained later, be ASM . Then DM | children are generated for the node M . For each child CHi, i = 1, . . . , |DM |, the associated query is QN ?{M = mi sample size is asi ? ASM , and potential splitting attributes is PSN ? M . The process of splitting is then recursively applied to children of node N In the process of calculating costs during the strati?cation process, we need to perform sample allocation, i.e., divide the parent nodes sample size among the potential children nodes This is required for calculating the integrated cost for the potential split. This is based on our sample allocation method, which we 328 describe next in Section IV-B. Furthermore, for calculating the integrated cost, the variance of target value ?2i and probability of output attribute A = a, ?i, for each stratum is computed based on the pilot sample Initially, the strati?cation process on the query space begins by calling Stratification\(R, null, F IA, n, null root node. The process of strati?cation would stop if there is no leaf node with integrated cost larger than a prede?ned threshold Each leaf node in the tree is a ?nal stratum for sampling, and the associated sample size denotes the number of data records drawn from the subpopulation of the stratum B. An Optimized Sample Allocation Method Now, we introduce our optimized algorithm for sample allocation which integrates variance reduction and sampling cost As introduced in section IV-A, integrated cost is de?ned by taking into account of variance of estimation and sampling cost The goal of our sample allocation algorithm is to minimize the integrated cost by choosing the sample size, ni, for each stratum In our algorithm, we adjust the value of SampCost and ?2s so that their in?uences on the integrated cost are in the same unit SampCost SampCost SmpCost\(r where SmpCost\(r entire population, and ?r denotes the probability of A = a being true for the entire population 2 2s 


2r where ?2r 2 n denotes the variance of estimation of the target value on the entire population The key constraint on the values of the sample sizes for each strata is that their sum should be equal to the total sample size A vector n = {n1, n2, . . . , nH} is used to represent the sample sizes, where the ith element, ni, is the sample size for the ith stratum By including sampling cost and variance of estimation into the integrated cost, our sample size determination task leads to the following optimization problem Minimize Cost\(n  i\(?s ni i v N2i niN2 2 i subject to  i ni = n 6 where Ni denotes the population size of data records under the space of A = a in ith stratum. Note that this value may not be known if A is an output attribute. However, the total number of records in the ith stratum is typically known, and can be denoted as DNi. Then Ni can be estimated by ?iDNi, and the population size of A = a on the entire population is estimated by N  i ?i DNi For ?nding the minimum of integrated cost, we utilize Lagrange multipliers, a well know optimization method. Lagrange multipliers aims at ?nding the extrema of a function object to constraints. Using this approach, a new variable ? called a Lagrange multiplier is introduced and de?ned by n n  


 i ni ? n If n is a minimum solution for the original constrained problem then there exists a ? such that \(n Lagrange function. Stationary points are those points where the partial derivatives of ?\(n n,??\(n 7 In our problem, by conducting partial derivatives on Formula 7 a group of equations are yielded as follows s i v N 2 i n2iN2 2 i + ? = 0 i = 1, ..H i ni = n 8 where the solution n leads to the minimum value of integrated cost in Formula 5 However, it is dif?cult to solve the group of equations directly Thus, we use numerical analysis to approximate the real solution. Newtons method is utilized for ?nding successively better approximations to the zeroes \(or roots Given an equation f\(x x tive of function f\(x method iteratively provides, xt+1, a better approximation of the root, based on xt, the previous approximation of root according to the following formula xt+1 = xt ? f\(xt f ?\(xt The iteration is repeated until a suf?ciently accurate value is reached, i.g. |f\(xt In our problem of Formula 8, there are H + 1 equations F \(xt xt xt n1, .., nH , ?}, where the equations in F \(xt fi\(xt s i v N 


2 i n2iN2 2 i + ? i = 1, .., H fH+1\(xt  i ni ? n The Newtons method is also applied iteratively via the system of linear equations JF \(xt xt+1 ? xt xt 9 where JF \(xt H + 1 H + 1 equation system F \(xt vector xt. The entry JF \(i, j d\(fi\(x dxj where fi\(x xt x From the Expression 9, a better approximation xt+1 is obtained based on previous approximation xt. The iterative procedure would be stopped if ?i|fi\(xt threshold, and then the sample size ni is allocated for each stratum so that the integrated cost is minimized. In reality, we are required to pick an integral number of records from each stratum during the sampling step. Thus, we round down each ni to its nearest integer, ni + 0.5 In the example shown in Table I, suppose we set both weights v and ?s to be 0.5. Further, assume the variance of the entire population, ?2r , to be 80000. The probability of A = a over the entire population ?r is 0.242. By using the proposed optimized sample allocation method, the sample sizes for the three strata 329 are 162, 299, and 139, respectively. In this case, the variance of estimation according to the Expression 2 is 93.66, and the estimated cost is 1943.7. We can see that, compared with Neyman allocation, the sampling cost is decreased by 42.1%, but results some increase in variance. Overall, this example shows that we can achieve lower sampling cost by trading off some accuracy C. Overall Sampling Process Algorithm 2 DiffRuleSampling\(DW1, DW2, F IA, t, St 1: PS ? a pilot sample from DW1, DW2 


2: DR ? identi?ed rules from PS 3: OA ? output attributes of DW1, DW2 4: for all R : X ? DW1\(t t 5: if X ?OA = null then 6: Acquire St data records from the space of X 7: else 8: R ? root node 9: Lf ? null 10: Strati?cation\(R,null, F IA, St, Lf 11: for all N ? Lf do 12: s ? sample size of N 13: Draw s data records from the subpopulation of N 14: end for 15: end if 16: Update the mean value of DW1\(t t 17: end for Algorithm 2 shows the overall sampling process for differential rule mining on two deep web data sources, DW1 and DW2 and with differential attribute t. The inputs of the algorithm also contain the full set of input attributes FIA as well as the sample size St. The algorithm starts with a pilot sample PS, from which the differential rules are identi?ed. For the rule R : X ? DW1\(t t St data records are directly drawn from the space of X \(Lines 5-6 t t containing output attributes, query spaces of DW1 and DW2 are strati?ed and sample is recursively allocated to each stratum with corresponding query subspace \(Line 10 of the tree built by strati?cation, a sample is drawn according to its sample size \(Line 13 t t is updated by the further sample \(Line 16 for association rule mining is very similar and not shown here V. EVALUATION STUDY We evaluate our sampling methods for association mining and differential rule mining on the deep web using two datasets described below US Census data set: This is a 9-attribute real-life data set obtained from the 2008 US Census on the income of US households. This data set contains 40,000 data records with 7 categorical attributes about the race, age, and education level of the husband and wife of each household and 2 numerical attributes about the incomes of husband and wife 


Yahoo! data set: The Yahoo! data set, which consists of the data crawled from a subset of a real-world hidden database at http://autos.yahoo.com/. Particularly, we download the data on used cars located within 50 miles of a zipcode address. This yields 30,000 data records. The data consists of 7-attribute with 6 categorical attributes about the age, mileage, brand, etc, of the cars and one numerical attribute, which is the price of the car Variance of Estimation is estimated for the target value \(i.e mean value in differential rule mining, and con?dence in association rule mining is calculated according to the Expression 2. Since variance of estimation reveals the variation of the estimated value from the true value, smaller variance suggests better estimation Sampling Cost is estimated by the number of queries submitted to data sources in order to acquire a certain number of data records containing target output attributes, i.e. A = a. Larger sample size implies higher sampling costs in a deep web setting where the queries are executed over the internet Estimate accuracy is estimated by Absolute Error Rate \(AER Small AER value indicates higher accuracy. For an estimator on variable Y with true value y and estimated value y, the AER of the estimator is calculated by AER\(y A. Association Rule Mining In this section, we present the results of our method for association rule mining. Using our overall approach, we have created four different versions, which correspond to four different sets of weights assigned to variance of estimation and sampling costs. 1 the weight ?v = 1.0 and ?s = 0.0, 2 the weight ?v = 0.7 and ?s = 0.3, 3 v = 0.5 and ?s = 0.5, and 4 weights ?v = 0.3 and ?s = 0.7. In addition, we also compare these approaches with a simple random sampling method, which is denoted by Random We focus on the queries in the form of A = a ? B = b where A and B are output categorical attributes. Other categorical attributes in the data set are considered as input attributes Our goal is to estimate Supp\(A=a,B=b A=a association rules are randomly selected from the datasets. Each of the 50 association rules are re-processed 100 times using 100 different \(pilot sample, sample iterations result is the average result for 5000 executions 


In all charts reported in this section, the X-axis is k, which denotes the size of sample under the space of a target rule drawn from deep web. The sample size for each point on X-axis is k x, where x is a ?xed value for our experiment, and depends upon the dataset. At each time, queries are issued to obtain kx data records under the space of a target rule. Overall, all our experiments show the variance of estimation, sampling costs and sampling accuracy with varying sample size Figure 1 shows the result from our strati?ed sample methods on the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, from which all of the 50 initial rules are derived. In this experiment the ?xed value x is set to be 300, which means the smallest sample size at k = 1 is 300, and the largest sample size at k 10 is 3000. Figure 1 a the ?ve sampling procedures. Figure 1 b cost for the sampling procedures. In order to better illustrate the experiment result, in each execution of sampling, the variance of 330 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH            9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  


9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW           6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF            5 


 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 1. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on US Census Dataset estimation and sampling cost for the sampling procedures var7 var5, var3, and rand are normalized by the corresponding values of Full Var. Thus, in our experiment, the values of sampling cost and variance of estimation for sampling procedure Full Var are all 1. Furthermore, Figure 1 c sampling procedures From Figure 1 a pared with sampling procedures Var7, Var5 and Var3, Full Var has the lowest estimation variance and the highest sampling cost. From sampling procedures Var7, Var5, and Var3, we can see a pattern that the variance of estimation increases, and the sampling cost decreases consistently with the decrease of the weight for variance of estimation. At the largest sample size of k = 10, the estimation variance of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 27% and the sampling cost is decreased by 40 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. The experiment shows that our method decreases the sampling cost ef?ciently by trading off a percent of variance of estimation. Similar to variance of estimation, the sampling accuracy of these procedures also decreases with the decrease of the weight on variance of estimation. For the largest sample size at k = 10, we can see that the AER of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 20 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. However, for many users, increase of the AER will be acceptable, since the sampling cost is decreased by 40%. By setting the weights for sampling variance and sampling cost, users would be able to control the trade-off between the variance of estimation, sampling cost, and estimation accuracy In addition, compared with sampling procedure of Full Var Var7, Var5, and Var3, sampling procedure Random, has higher estimation of variance, sampling cost and lower estimation accuracy. Thus, our approach clearly results in more effective methods than using simple random sampling for data mining on the deep web Figure 2 shows the experiment result of our proposed strati?ed 


sampling methods on the Yahoo! data set. The size of pilot sample on this data set is 2,000, and the ?xed value x for sample size is 200. The results are similar to those from the US census dataset. We can still see the pattern of the variance of estimation increasing with the decrease of its weight. Besides, the sampling accuracy is also similar to the variance of estimation. However although the variance estimation of sampling procedure Random is 60% larger than sampling procedure Full Var, the sampling cost of Random is 2% smaller than Full Var. This is because Full Var does not consider sampling cost. It is possible that Full Var assigns a large sample to a stratum with low ?, which denotes the probability of containing data records under the space of A = a, resulting the larger sampling cost than that of simple random sampling. Sampling procedures Var7, Var5, Var3 consider sampling cost as well, and have smaller variance estimation and sampling cost, compared with Random. Furthermore, Random has smaller sampling accuracy than Full Var, Var7 and Var5, but has larger sampling accuracy than Var3. This is because Var3 assigns much more importance to the sampling cost, and loses accuracy to a large extent To summarize, our results shows that our proposed strati?ed sampling are clearly more effective than simple random sampling on the deep web. Moreover, our approach allows users to tradeoff variance of estimation and sampling accuracy to some extent while achieving a large reduction in sampling costs B. Differential Rule Mining In this section, we present results from experiments based on differential rule mining. Particularly, we look at the rules of the form A = a ? D1\(t t categorical attribute and t is an output numerical attribute, while other categorical attributes in the data set are considered as input attributes In this experiment, we also evaluate our proposed method with different weights assigned to variance of estimation and sampling cost. Five sampling procedures, Full Var, Var7, Var5,Var3 and Random, have same meanings with those in the experiments of association rule mining. Similarly, 50 rules are randomly selected from the datasets, and each of the 50 differential rules are reprocessed 100 times using 100 different \(pilot sample, sample iterations 5000 runs First, we evaluated the performance of these procedures on 


the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, and all 50 rules are derived from this pilot sample. In this experiment the ?xed value x for the sample size is set to be 300. The attribute income is considered as a differential attribute, and the difference of income of husband and wife is studied in this experiment. Figure 3 shows the performance of the 5 sampling 331 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW    


      6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 2. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the US census data set. The results are also similar to the experiment results for association rule mining: there is a consistent trade off between the estimation variance and sampling cost by setting their weights. Our proposed methods have better performance than simple random sampling method 


We also evaluated the performance of our methods on the Yahoo! dataset. The size of pilot sampling is 2000, and the xed value x for the sample size is 200. The attribute price is considered as the target attribute. Figure 4 shows the performance of the 5 sampling procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the Yahoo! dataset. The results are very similar to those from the previous experiments VI. RELATED WORK We now compare our work with the existing work on sampling for association rule mining, sampling for database aggregation queries, and sampling for the deep web Sampling for Association Rule Mining: Sampling for frequent itemset mining and association rule mining has been studied by several researchers [23], [21], [11], [6]. Toivonen [23] proposed a random sampling method to identify the association rules which are then further veri?ed on the entire database. Progressive sampling [21], which is based on equivalence classes, involves determining the required sample size for association rule mining FAST [11], a two-phase sampling algorithm, has been proposed to select representative transactions, with the goal of reducing computation cost in association rule mining.A randomized counting algorithm [6] has been developed based on the Markov chain Monte Carlo method for counting the number of frequent itemsets Our work is different from these sampling methods, since we consider the problem of association rule mining on the deep web. Because the data records are hidden under limited query interfaces in these systems, sampling involves very distinct challenges Sampling for Aggregation Queries: Sampling algorithms have also been studied in the context of aggregation queries on large data bases [18], [1], [19], [25]. Approximate Pre-Aggregation APA  categorical data utilizing precomputed statistics about the dataset Wu et al. [25] proposed a Bayesian method for guessing the extreme values in a dataset based on the learned query shape pattern and characteristics from previous workloads More closely to our work, Afrati et al. [1] proposed an adaptive sampling algorithm for answering aggregation queries on hierarchical structures. They focused on adaptively adjusting the sample size assigned to each group based on the estimation error in each group. Joshi et al.[19] considered the problem of 


estimating the result of an aggregate query with a very low selectivity. A principled Bayesian framework was constructed to learn the information obtained from pilot sampling for allocating samples to strata Our methods are clearly distinct for these approaches. First strata are built dynamically in our algorithm and the relations between input and output attributes are learned for sampling on output attributes. Second, the estimation accuracy and sampling cost are optimized in our sample allocation method Hidden Web Sampling: There is recent research work [3 13], [15] on sampling from deep web, which is hidden under simple interfaces. Dasgupta et al.[13], [15] proposed HDSampler a random walk scheme over the query space provided by the interface, to select a simple random sample from hidden database Bar-Yossef et al.[3] proposed algorithms for sampling suggestions using the public suggestion interface. Our algorithm is different from their work, since our goal is sampling in the context of particular data mining tasks. We focus on achieving high accuracy with a low sampling cost for a speci?c task, instead of simple random sampling VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have proposed strati?cation based sampling methods for data mining on the deep web, particularly considering association rule mining and differential rule mining Components of our approach include: 1 the relation between input attributes and output attributes of the deep web data source, 2 maximally reduce an integrated cost metric that combines estimation variance and sampling cost, and 3 allocation method that takes into account both the estimation error and the sampling costs Our experiments show that compared with simple random sampling, our methods have higher sampling accuracy and lower sampling cost. Moreover, our approach allows user to reduce sampling costs by trading-off a fraction of estimation error 332 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH      


     V WL PD WL RQ R I 9D UL DQ FH  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 


9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 3. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the US Census Dataset 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL 


PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF         


    5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 4. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset REFERENCES 1] Foto N. Afrati, Paraskevas V. Lekeas, and Chen Li. Adaptive-sampling algorithms for answering aggregation queries on web sites. Data Knowl Eng., 64\(2 2] Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pages 487499, 1994 3] Ziv Bar-Yossef and Maxim Gurevich. Mining search engine query logs via suggestion sampling. Proc. VLDB Endow., 1\(1 4] Stephen D. Bay and Michael J. Pazzani. Detecting group differences Mining contrast sets. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 5\(3 246, 2001 5] M. K. Bergman. The Deep Web: Surfacing Hidden Value. Journal of Electronic Publishing, 7, 2001 6] Mario Boley and Henrik Grosskreutz. A randomized approach for approximating the number of frequent sets. In ICDM 08: Proceedings of the 2008 Eighth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pages 4352 Washington, DC, USA, 2008. IEEE Computer Society 7] D. Braga, S. Ceri, F. Daniel, and D. Martinenghi. Optimization of Multidomain Queries on the Web. VLDB Endowment, 1:562673, 2008 8] R. E. Ca?isch. Monte carlo and quasi-monte carlo methods. Acta Numerica 7:149, 1998 9] Andrea Cali and Davide Martinenghi. Querying Data under Access Limitations. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 5059, 2008 10] Bin Chen, Peter Haas, and Peter Scheuermann. A new two-phase sampling based algorithm for discovering association rules. In KDD 02: Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 462468, New York, NY, USA, 2002 ACM 


11] W. Cochran. Sampling Techniques. Wiley and Sons, 1977 12] Arjun Dasgupta, Gautam Das, and Heikki Mannila. A random walk approach to sampling hidden databases. In SIGMOD 07: Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data pages 629640, New York, NY, USA, 2007. ACM 13] Arjun Dasgupta, Xin Jin, Bradley Jewell, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das Unbiased estimation of size and other aggregates over hidden web databases In SIGMOD 10: Proceedings of the 2010 international conference on Management of data, pages 855866, New York, NY, USA, 2010. ACM 14] Arjun Dasgupta, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das. Leveraging count information in sampling hidden databases. In ICDE 09: Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 329340 Washington, DC, USA, 2009. IEEE Computer Society 15] Loekito Elsa and Bailey James. Mining in?uential attributes that capture class and group contrast behaviour. In CIKM 08: Proceeding of the 17th ACM conference on Information and knowledge management, pages 971 980, New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM 16] E.K. Foreman. Survey sampling principles. Marcel Dekker publishers, 1991 17] Ruoming Jin, Leonid Glimcher, Chris Jermaine, and Gagan Agrawal. New sampling-based estimators for olap queries. In ICDE, page 18, 2006 18] Shantanu Joshi and Christopher M. Jermaine. Robust strati?ed sampling plans for low selectivity queries. In ICDE, pages 199208, 2008 19] Bing Liu. Web Data Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents, and Usage Data \(Data-Centric Systems and Applications Inc., Secaucus, NJ, USA, 2006 20] Srinivasan Parthasarathy. Ef?cient progressive sampling for association rules. In ICDM 02: Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, page 354, Washington, DC, USA, 2002. IEEE Computer Society 21] William H. Press and Glennys R. Farrar. Recursive strati?ed sampling for multidimensional monte carlo integration. Comput. Phys., 4\(2 1990 22] Hannu Toivonen. Sampling large databases for association rules. In The VLDB Journal, pages 134145. Morgan Kaufmann, 1996 23] Fan Wang, Gagan Agrawal, Ruoming Jin, and Helen Piontkivska. Snpminer A domain-speci?c deep web mining tool. In Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, pages 192 199, 2007 24] Mingxi Wu and Chris Jermaine. Guessing the extreme values in a data set a bayesian method and its applications. VLDB J., 18\(2 25] Mohammed J. Zaki. Scalable algorithms for association mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 12:372390, 2000 


333 


