Research of Commonly Used Association Rules Mining Algorithm in Data Mining  Ruowu Zhong Huiping Wang Institute of Computer Institute of Computer Shaoguan University Shaoguan University Shaoguan, Guangdong Province, China Shaoguan, Guangdong Province, China  huipingwang2011@sina.cn    Abstract This paper introduces the concept of data mining and its an important branch - association rules, describes the basic concept of association rules, the basic model of mining association rules; introduces the classical algorithm of association rules, and then classified discu sses the association rules mining from several angles such as width, depth, partition, sampling and incremental updating. Finally 
this paper prospects the association rules mining   Index Terms data mining; association rules; frequent itemsets; mining algorithm  I  I NTRODUCTION  Data mining is from a large number of incomplete, noisy ambiguous and random data, extracting implicit in them people do not know in advance but is potentially useful information and knowledge. Data mining is used to specify the model type that the data mining task to find. Data mining tasks can generally be divided into two categories: description and prediction. Descriptive mining tasks characterize the general characteristics of data in the database. Predictive data 
mining tasks predict on the base of the referring of current data Data mining system can mine models of a variety of types and various time granularities to meet the needs of different users or different applications. Its main function is as follows   1 on; \(2\analysis; \(3 classification and prediction; \(4\stering; \(5\outlier analysis; \(6 Association rule mining is to help find the relationship between the itemsets in a large number of databases. By describing the potential rules between the items in databases dependencies between multiple domains which meet the given support and the confidence threshold are found. The relationship is hidden and unknown in advance, is not got by 
the logic operation of a database or statistical methods. They are not the inherent properties of the data itself, but on the characteristics of data items simultaneously. The most typical example of association rules cases is: "80 percent of customers buy beers also buy di apers at the same time", its intuitive meaning is, how larger the tendency of customers buy certain products while they will buy other goods Discovering the rules like this is valuable for setting marketing strategy. Association rules can be applied to analysis of customer shopping product shelf design, mailing of commercial advertising, catalog design, additional sales storage planning, network fault analysis, and classification of the users based on buying patterns II BASIC CONCEPTS OF ASSOCIATION RULES  
In order to more clearly describe the algorithm, the basic concepts of association rule mining are introduced first Definition 1.1 The data set of association rules is denoted by D, D is the transaction database, D = {t 1 t 2 t k t n t k  i l i 2 i m i p t k k = 1,2 , ... n m  m = l, 2, ... p\. In the transaction database item is the name of goods or services, transaction also includes other information such as date, customer number and so on. Simply put, transaction is a collection of items 
Definition 1.2 Let I = {i l i 2 i m be a collection consisting of all items in D, any subset X of I is called Itemset in D  X | = k item X is said to be k-Itemset. Let t k be transaction and let X be itemset, if X 000 t k we call transaction t k contains itemset X. Each transaction has its own unique identifier called TID Definition 1.3 The dataset D contains the number of item set X, we call this the support of the itemset X, denoted by 000V x. The support of item X is denoted by Support \(X\of  
000V x / | D |\ * 100%, where | D | is the number of transaction in dataset D. If the support of X is not less than user-specified minimum support, then X is called frequent itemsets, referred to as frequent sets \(or large itemsets\ if the support of X is less than user-specified minimum support, then X is called non- frequent itemsets referred to as non-frequent sets \(or small itemsets Definition 1.4 Association Rules can be simply expressed as: R: X 000 Y, where: X 000 I, Y 000 I, and X 000\037 Y 000 it is said that if the itemset X occurs in a transaction, then Y will 
inevitably appears in the transaction. Therefore, X is called a prerequisite for the rule; Y is the result of the rule Definition 1.5 For the association rule R: X 000 Y, where X 000 I, Y 000 I, and X 000\037 Y 000 Confidence of rule is defined as: Confidence \(R  X  Support  Y X  Support 000 it reflects the conditional probability that a transaction having X also contains Y 
2011 International Conference on Internet Computing and Information Services 978-0-7695-4539-4/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICICIS.2011.63 219 


Definition 1.6 The support of association rules is the ratio of the number of transactions contain both X and Y and the number of all transactions, denoted Support \(X 000 Y\at is Support \(X 000 Y\ \(X 000 Y\ reflects the probability that a transaction contains X 000 Y Support and confidence are two important concepts to describe association rules. If we do not consider support and confidence, there are a huge number of rules association rules in the transaction database. In fact, most people are usually interested in the association rules that satisfy certain support and confidence. In order to find valuable association rules, we need to specify two thresholds: minimum support and minimum confidence. The former is the minimum support that user-specified association rules must satisfy, which represents the minimum a set of items set in the statistical sense need to satisfy; the latter is the minimum confidence specified by the user association rules must satisfy, which reflects the minimum confidence of association rules III THE BASIC MODEL OF ASSOCIATION RULES MINING  The task of association rules mining is to find out all the strong association rules in transaction database D with usergiven minimum support and minimum confidence Corresponding itemsets of strong association rules A 004 B must be frequent itemsets, and the confidence of association rules A 004 B derived from frequent itemsets A B is calculated by the frequent itemsets A and AUB's support. Therefore, the association rules mining can be decomposed into two steps The first step is to find out all the frequent itemsets in D quickly and efficiently, whic h is the central issue of association rules mining The second step is to produce a strong frequent itemsets We use frequent itemsets to generate the required association rules, based on the user-given minimum confidence to select Finally, strong association rules are generated IV  A LGORITHM FOR A SSOCIATION R ULES M INING  A The Classical Association Rule Mining Algorithm Among the algorithms, Apriori  al gori t h m  i s  t h e m o st  classical association rule mining algorithms. The algorithm was first proposed by Agrawal et al in 1993. This algorithm is decomposed into two steps: discover frequent itemsets from candidate frequent itemsets, generate rules from frequent itemsets and pioneering the use of support-based pruning technology, and control the exponential growth of the candidate set Apriori algorithm strategy is to separate association rule mining tasks into two steps 1\ion of frequent itemsets: by iteration finding all the itemsets that satisfy minimum support threshold, that is, find all frequent itemsets 2\ing association rules: extract high confidence rules from the frequent itemsets found by the former step which are the strong association rules The first step for mining frequent itemsets, the algorithm will produce a large number of candidate items, and in order to generate frequent itemsets scanning databases need to loop through pattern matching to inspect candidates, the cost of computation time of this step will be much larger than the second step, first step is the core of the algorithm Here, the basic idea of the generating frequent itemsets is The algorithm requires multi-step processing of data sets. The first step, statistics the frequency of the set with an element and identify those itemsets that is not less than the minimum support, that is, the maximum one-dimensional itemsets. Then start the cycle processing from the second step until no more maximum itemsets generated. The cycle is: in the first step k k-dimensional candidate is gene rated form \(k-1\ensional maximum itemsets, then scans the database to get the candidate itemset support, and compare with the minimum support, k-dimensional maximum set is found Apriori algorithm has two fatal performance bottlenecks huge numbers of candidates are produced; with multiple scans of transaction database, tedious workload of support counting for candidates will be spent B Commonly Used Association Rules Mining Algorithms 1\ Data Set Partitioning Algorithm Data set partitioning algorithms include Partition algorithm proposed by  DIC al gori t h m   by Brin. Partiti on algorithm logically divides entire database into a few of separate memory blocks that can be stored in the data processing, saving time of accessing external memory I / O. It is considered separately for each logic block to generate the appr opriate frequent sets, and then use "frequent itemset in at least one partition is frequently" the nature to unit the frequent sets in all the logic blocks to generate all possible global candidate sets. Finally, scans the database again to calculate global count of support of sets The whole process takes two scans of the database, but the number of candidate itemsets generated is relatively large DIC algorithm is also adopted by the thinking of dividing the database into several partitions each partition is marked at the beginning in the process of scanning the database, candidate items can be added in each ma rked partition, the support can be calculated when the itemset s are calculated. In this algorithm, the times of scanning the database are less than the maximum number of frequent sets. If the data blocks are divided just the right time, the times of scanning the database is only two, and all the frequent itemsets can be found The main bottleneck of data set partitioning algorithm is the execution time is long and frequent itemsets generated is not very high accurate. But this type of algorithm has a high degree of parallelism, just scanned twice database, greatly reducing I / O operations to improve the efficiency of the algorithm 2  Depth-First Algorithm Common depth-first algorithm includes FP-growth algorithm algorithm OIP al gori t h m 6 TreeProject i on algorithm   FP-growth algorithm is one of the latest and most efficient algorithms in depth-first algorithm. The algorithm does not subscribe to generate - and test paradigm of Apriori. Instead, it 
220 


encodes the data set using a co mpact data structure called and FP-tree and extracts frequent itemsets directly from this structure Compared with the Apriori algorithm, FP-growth algorithm has the following advantages: FP-growth algorithm only scans the database twice, to avoid multiple scans database; do not have a large number of candidates, in the mining process significantly re duces the search space, time and space efficiency are incr eased dramatically. But its difficulty lies in dealing with large and sparse database, in the mining processing and recursive computations require considerable space 3  Breadth-First Algorithm Breadth-first algorithm, also known as hierarchical algorithms, including Apriori algorithm proposed by Agrawal and others, AprioriTid algorithm and Apri ori H y b ri d [9  algorithm, DHP algorithm proposed by Park et al and so on Apriori algorithm is breadth-first algorithm, ApriofiTid algorithm evolved based on the Apriori algorithm. This algorithm uses Apriori algorithm when scans the database for the first time, when scans for the second time, it no longer rescans the entire database, but only scans the last generation of candidate items, and calculates the degree of support of frequent itemsets at the same time ,it reduces the time of scanning database and improves the algorithm efficiency AprioriHybrid algorithm is proposed based on AprioriTid algorithm and Apriori algorithm. This algorithm first uses Apriori algorithm when do the initial scan of the database When the size of candidate itemsets generated can be stored into memory for processing and then turn to AprioriTid algorithm, until we find all the frequent itemsets. DHP algorithm uses hash table technology to prune data sets and candidate sets to reduce the time and space. It uses a hash table to calculate a rough set of k- itemsets support when in the calculation of \(k-1\– itemset s. It eliminates meaningless k-item candidate set to reduce the number of k-itemsets especially for controlling the number of Candidate 2 itemsets. Overall, the breadth-first algorithm has the shortcoming of generating a large number of candidate items and need to repeatedly scan the database 4  Incremental Update Algorithm Incremental updating algorithm is the use of association rules have been mined to find new association rules on changed database or parameters and delete obsolete data sets to maintain updated. Most of the current incremental updating algorithms are based on Apriori algorithm as the core for the improvement and evolution, including FUP algorithm and FUP2 algorithm proposed by D. W  C h eng et  al  IUA and PIUA algorithm proposed by Feng Yucai et al  IUAR  algorithm proposed by Gao Feng et al and so on FUP algorithm is the improvement of the Apriori Algorithm, and it is a classical algorithm to solve the problem of incremental update. FUP algorithm is mainly targeted at the minimum support and minimum confidence unchanged, the database DB to be added, deleted or modified, how to generate association rules of the updated database. It uses the frequent itemsets to avoid double-counting the number of frequent itemsets and improve the efficiency. FUP algorithm is inadequate: the algorithm spends a lot of time in dealing with huge sets of candidates; pattern matching on the candidate set requires costly repeatedly scan of the database FUP2 algorithm taking into accounts the increase in database and modifies or deletes the database, is suitable for the case of large increase and small deletion of database IUA, PIUA algorithms are mainly considered in the minimum support and minimum confidence changes and the database is constant, how to generate association rules in database IUAR algorithm is mainly considered in the minimum support and minimum confidence and the database the same time changes, how to generate the updated association rules 5  Sampling Algorithm Sampling algorithms include adaptive mining algorithm proposed by Park et al Toi vonen s Sam p l i ng [15  algorithm. Sampling algorithm randomly selects a subsets of the database D ' from the database D that can be transferred to the memory , and then finds all the rules in the subset of D that may be set up in the database D, and then the rest \(D- D to verify the accuracy of the resu lts. It is suitable for mining in not too accurate but very hi gh efficient environment Sampling algorithm has considerab ly reduced the time cost of scanning the database, but its biggest drawback is that the results may lead to data skew and inaccurate results. When a random sample selected can not represent the distribution of the entire database, it is possible to lose some global frequent itemsets and lead to inaccurate results. If the frequent itemsets contains all frequent itemsets in D, then we need to scan D only once. Otherwise, in order to reduce the impact of this problem, we can use a smaller support threshold to scan the database again on the random sa mple to generate frequent itemsets and find the missing frequent itemsets in the first scan. By scanning the database repeatedly, the frequent itemsets omission is reduced. For data skew, Lin and Dunham in the literature [16 d i scu ssed th e An ti-sk ew alg o r ith m to  mine association rules, the number of scan data sets can be reduced to less than 2 times Association rule mining algorithms currently used include Parallel mining algorithms, constraint-based mining algorithm, multi-level association rules mining algorithm multi-dimensional association rule mining algorithm weighted support algorithm and so on V  C ONCLUSION  In this paper, association rules of data mining were discussed clearly and in details, and several commonly used mining algorithms were anal yzed and compared and summarized. Multi-valued association rule mining interestingness measures and assessment techniques, t the maintenance of enhanced association rules method, the interaction of enhanced association rule mining algorithm with the user, the application of association rule mining to the 
221 


privacy and information secur ity issues are hot issue for further research However, the improvement of existing algorithms can not satisfy people's mining system for quick and timely response to demand, how to improve the efficiency of mining process to interact with the user and generate visual results and so on are the focus of future research work R EFERENCES    Jiawei Lian , Michelins Kamber. Data mining: Concepts and Techniques M  Am er ica: M o r g an Kaufm a n Publisher s  2000   Agrawal R, Imielinski T, Swami A. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Database s  Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD Conference. Washington D C, 1993: 207-216   Savasere A, Omieeinski E, Navathe S. An efficient algorithm for mining association rules in large databases the 21st International Conference on Very Larg e Databases. Zurich, Switzerland l995: 432-443   Brin S, Motwani R, Ullman J D. Dynamic Itemset counting and implication rules for market bask  ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data Tucson, Arizona, 1997: 255-264   Hart J, Pei J, Yin Y. Mining fr equent patterns without candidate  In Proceeding of the 2000 ACM SIGM0D Conference on Management of Data. Dallas, TX, 2000   Liu J, Pan Y, Wang K, et al. Mining frequent item sets by opportunisitc projection the Eighth ACM SIGKDD Intl Conf  on Knowledge Discovery and Data Ming. Alberta, Canada, 2002: 229 003 238   Agarwal R, Aggarwal C, Prased V V V. A tree projection algorithm for generation of frequent items   Parallel and Distributed Computing 200l, 61\(3\: 350-371   Agrawal R, Srikant R. Fast Algorith m for Mining Association Rules  Proceedings of the 20th Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB 003 94 Conference. Santiago, Chile, 1994: 487-499   Agrawal R, Srikant R. Fast Algorith m for Mining Association Rules in Larg  San Jose I B M Alm a den Resear ch Center  1994   Park J S, Chen M S, Yu P S. An effective hash based algorithm for mining association ru I n Pr oc 1995 ACM SI GM OD San Jose   1995: 175-186   Cheung D W, Han J, Ng V T. A Fast Distributed Algorithm for Mining  of 1996 International conference on Parallel and Distributed Information System. Miami Beach,  1996: 31-44   Ding Xiangwu. Mining Temporal   W uhan Transportation University, l999, 23 \(4\ :365-367   Gao Feng, Xie Jian-Ying. Found that incremental updating association rules algorithm  Com puter E ngineer ing 2000 26 12 4950   Park J S, Chen M, Yu P S. Using a Hash- Based Method with Transaction Trimming and Database Scan Re duction for Mining Association  and data engi neering, 1997 9\(5\: 813-825   Toivonen H. Sampling Large Databases for Association  ational Conference on Very Large Databases\(VLDB 003 96\. Bumbay, India: Morgan Kaufman, 1996: 134145   Lin J L, Dunhan M H. Mining association rules: Anti-skew algorithms[C  the International Conference on Data Engineering. Orlando, Florida, 1998  
222 


 n ik jk k n ik k T X Y f Conf X Y X         3 where T is a T-norm [18], ? is the membership function to determine fuzzy attribute values described in Fig.2, and the sum is taken over the set of elements in the database. The confidence for fuzzy associations is then adopted as the quantitive indicator of association degree in the following research III. DATA SELECTION AND PROCESSING Annual data of 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities, covering the period 1978-2008 were investigated in this study. Statistics of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao Special Administrative Regions are excluded because these regions enjoyed different economic policies during this period. As depicted in Fig.3, 27 factors representing variation tendency of economic, population, price, trade, weather, and peoples life, et al, obtained from Statistical Yearbook of individual regions, Power Yearbook of China and Meteorological Yearbook of China, were selected for associative analysis with power growth  In flu en ci 


ng F ac to rs o f P ow er G ro w th  Figure 3.  Influencing factors involved in this work related to electricity consumption Different original values are standardized into the same dimension to ensure comparability. Selected parameters \(e.g growth rate High}. Each attribute of every item is then determined by membership functions defined in Fig.2. Table 2 summarizes the pre-treating process. Fig.4 to 6 describe the growth tendency of electricity consumption as well as some candidate variables of a municipality. Sustained increase can be found from every curve during the period 1978-2008 TABLE I.  PREPROCESSING METHOD OF DIFFERENT FACTORS No. of Factors Factor type Factor description Membership function H, I Percentage Low Medium High As shown in Fig.2, e.g 1 1 2Low else 2 1 0 2 a A A a A A 


a A       V, W, X Y Absolute value of temperatures All other factors, as well as A Growth rate 1 1   Figure 4.  Growth tendency of electricity consumption and corresponding national economic accounts indices of a municipality  Figure 5.  Growth tendency of electricity consumption and corresponding population, investment, trade and price indices of a municipality IV. EMPIRICAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The main process of mining fuzzy association rules can be divided into four steps: First, the candidate factors are standardized and then transformed into fuzzy attributes by using the membership functions. Second, large fuzzy patterns are generated from the database by applying particular algorithm depicted in Fig.1. Then, Based on the large fuzzy patterns, the desired fuzzy association rules with the minimum confidence \(min_conf = 0.5 value of confidence, the quantitative association degrees between electricity consumption and its influencing factors are finally achieved. Table 2 shows the empirical results. The conclusion on dominant factors identification is displayed as well Figure 6.  Growth tendency of electricity consumption and corresponding income, industiral value, and government finace indices of a municipality TABLE II.  EMPIRICAL RESULTS No. Association Rules Conf. Conclusion 1 T? A 0.665 


Dominant factors: Output value of industry, Secondary industry product, GPD, as well as Per capita GDP 2 D? A 0.649 3 G? A 0.644 4 B? A 0.613 5 R? A 0.575 Sub-dominant factors: Total value of imports and exports Per capita disposable income Non-agricultural population Total investment in fixed assets and Peak summer temperature 6 J? A 0.556 7 AB? A 0.555 8 F? A 0.537 9 V? A 0.520  The analytical result shows a heavy dependence of electricity consumption, and hence the power load growth, on industrial output value and per capita GDP Total value of imports and exports, income, nonagricultural population and total investment in fixed assets are found out as the sub-dominant factors to growth in electricity Weather conditions in summer influence peak load level, along with the proliferation of air conditioning load. Peak summer temperature is thus found relevant to some extent as well. The remaining 18 candidate variables, therefore, are suggested to be ignored in power load analysis and forecast V. CONCLUSION In this paper, we have introduced a new data mining methodology to investigate association degrees between Chinese power load growth and 27 different candidate factors This methodology offers some advantages as, for example allowing us to properly extract interesting association rules from large historical database. By ordering confidence of selected rules, four dominant factors and five sub-dominant factors boosting the electricity consumption in China are identified, which can been adopted for better understanding the growth law and more accurately predicting the electricity demand Future work includes the development of a new prediction 


method for electricity demand using the dominant variables identified in this research as inputs. Furthermore, other data mining techniques, such as clustering analysis, are also being considered REFERENCES 1] J. Kraft, A. Kraft, On the relationship between energy and GNP Journal of Energy and Development, vol.3, pp.401-403, 1978 2] E. S. H. Yu, J. Y. Choi, The causal relationship between electricity and GNP: an international comparison, Journal of Energy and Development vol.10, pp.249-272, 1985 3] U. Erol, E. S. H. Yu, On the relationship between electricity and income for industrialized countries, Journal of Electricity and Employment, vol.13, pp.113-122, 1987 4] D. C. Bohm, Electricity consumption and economic growth in the European Union: A causality study using panel unit root and cointegration analysis, 5th International Conference on European Electricity Market, 2008 5] A. Ciarreta, A. Zarraga, Economic growth and electricity consumption in 12 European countries: A Causality Analysis Using Panel Data, 6th International Conference on the European Energy Market, Leuven, 2009 6] U. Soytas, R. Sari, Energy consumption and GDP: causality relationship in G-7 countries and emerging markets, Energy Economics pp.33-37, 2003 7] S. H. Yoo, Electricity consumption and economic growth: evidence from Korea, Energy Policy, pp.1627-1632, 2005 8] C. C. Lee, Energy consumption and GDP in developing countries: A cointegrated analysis, Energy Economics, pp.415-427, 2005 9] S. T. Chen, H. I. Kuo, C. C. Chen, The relationship between GDP and electricity consumption in 10 Asian countries, Energy Policy, pp.26112621, 2007 10] C. C. Lee, C. P. Chang, Energy consumption and economic growth in Asian economies: A more comprehensive analysis using panel data Resource and Energy Economics, pp.50-65, 2008 11] A. Shiu, P. L. Lam, Electricity consumption and economic growth in China, Energy Policy, pp.47-54, 2004 12] G. D. Li, D. Yamaguchi, H. S. Lin, The simulation modeling about the developments of GDP, population and primary energy consumption in China based on MATLAB, 2006 IEEE Conference on Cybernetics and Intelligent Systems, Bangkok, 2006 13] L. P. Wang, Study on the relationship between economic development and energy consumption in Henan Province of China, 2008 International Seminar on Business and Information Management, 2008 


14] X. Zhang, Y. Mao, The relationship between energy consumption and economic growth in China based on ANFIS, International Workshop on Intelligent Systems and Application, ISA2009, Wuhan, 2009 15] H. R. Cui, D. Wang, The study on the relationship between energy consumption and economy growth in China based on VAR model 2009 First International Workshop on Database Technology and Applications, 2009 16] M. Delgado, N. Marn, D. Snchez, M. A. Vila, Fuzzy association rules general model and applications, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems vol.2, pp.214-225, 2003 17] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of data. Washington DC, pp.207-216, 1993 18] D. Dubois, H. Prade, T. Sudkamp, On the representation, measurement and discovery of fuzzy associations, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, vol.2, pp.250-262, 2005   


means that the service is in the same branch, but at a lower level in the hierarchy of services execution. Therefore, this service will only be conducted if an error has occurred in the execution of the previous one. As shown in chart II the latter service uses an image resource in charge of showing some information at the MIDlet display and whose content is also stored on the device Besides, the MIDlet allows in a simple way to modify all those parameters that define the execution of the services and their use. As commented before, a user could not want that a service is executed automatically and requires manual confirmation. For that, he/she only would need to change the value of the execution parameter of the service into manual. In the same way, the user can activate or deactivate the use of resources just by modifying the value of the state attribute into off. Even more, it is possible to add new resources, if, together with their definition some content needed for their execution is included Therefore, it can be checked as, even when the user define an initial interaction for a scenario and even when the same deployment is done in different devices, each user could easily adapt and customize the interaction to its needs and preferences afterwards Equally, the user could activate or deactivate a service changing the execution order and modifying the hierarchy initially defined for them. Herewith, the same scenario could be customized and act in a different way depending of the person that interacts with it V. DISCUSSION IoT is not a reality yet, but a prospective view of a series of technologies that, combined, could sharply modify the interaction mode with our environment and the working of our society in the following years. In order to establish the IoT philosophy, it would be needed an advance of the development and dissemination of elements as sensors, new communication technologies \(as well as their intercommunication mobile devices able to integrate them, a proper infrastructure and above all software applications that supports them and are able to integrate all those elements, as well as to fulfills the needs and requirements of the users Those new systems must also be adapted to the different interaction scenarios and, mainly, to the different 


characteristics, requirements, preferences and needs of the people that interact with the environment. In this paper we present a model that provides a solution to this issue The model is based in augment different objects among a scenario with Tags, by the assignment of services and resources defined in an abstracted hierarchy that allows configuring a customized interaction model. Thus, for the same scenario, the model is able to define different interaction contexts. So, a context is defined as the aggregation of: a certain scenario formed by a set of intelligent objects offering a set of services, b characteristics, preferences and needs, c and d Under the proposed model a tool that allows the definition and scenario deployment has been built. A neuter MIDlet installed in the NFC device is the one in charge of guiding the 13 interaction through the definition of the scenarios stored in a XML file. This architecture allows that the same MIDlet could be used with any scenario and that the user could adapt the interaction to his preferences Currently we are working in the completeness of the model and the complex interaction scenarios generalization, being the latter based in rules systems that allows adapting the different interaction contexts to the users ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Innovation of Spain \(MICINN Project TIN2009-07184 REFERENCES 1] M. Weiser. The Computer for the Twenty-First Century. Scientific American, 1991, pp. 91-104 2] G. Broll, S . Siorpaes, E. Rukzio, M. Paolucci, J. Hamard, M. Wagner and A. Schmidt. Supporting Mobile Service Usage through Physical Mobile Interaction, 5th Annual IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications, White Plains,NY, USA 2007 3] C. Floerkemeier, M. Langheinrich, E. Fleisch, F. Mattern and S.E Sarma. The Internet of Things. Proceedings of First International Conference, IOT 2008, Zurich, Switzerland. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4952, 2008 4] Revising Europes ICT Strategy, ftp://ftp.cordis.europa.eu/pub/ist/docs 


istag-revising-europesict-strategy-final-version_en.pdf 5] E. Rukzio, G. Broll, K. Leichtenstern, A. Schmidt. Mobile Interaction with the Real World: An Evaluation and Comparison of Physical Mobile Interaction Technique, Ambient Intelligence. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4794, 2007, pp. 1-18 6] J. Hong and E. Suh, S. Kim. Context-aware systems: A literature review and classification, Expert Systems with Applications. 2009 Elsevier 7] A.K. Dey and G.D. Abowd. Towards a better understanding of context and context-awareness, Proceedings of the Workshop on the What Who, Where, When and How of Context-Awareness, ACM Press, New York. 2000 8] H. Chen, T. Finin and A. Joshi.An Intelligent Broker for ContextAware Systems, Adjunct Proceedings of Ubicomp 2003 9] H. Chen, F. Perich, T. Finin, A. Joshi. SOUPA: standard ontology for ubiquitous and pervasive applications, The First Annual International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems: Networking and Services, 2004, MOBIQUITOUS 2004 10] M. Roman, C. Hess, R. Cerqueira, A. Ranganathan, R.H. Campbell and K. Nahrstedt. GAIA: A middleware infrastructure for active spaces IEEE Pervasive Computing, vol. 1, no. 4, 2002, pp. 74-83 11] Service Platform for Innovative Communication Environment \(SPICE An Integrated Project in European Unions IST 6th Framework Programme, http://www.ist-spice.org 12] Open Platform for User-centric service Creation and Execution OPUCE Framework Programme, http://www.opuce.tid.es 13] MobiLife, an Integrated Project in European Unions IST 6th Framework Programme, http://www.ist-mobilife.org 14] L. Lamorte. A platform for enabling context aware telecommunication services, Third Workshop on Context Awareness for Proactive Systems. 2007 15] C. Venezia, C.A. Licciardi Improve ubiquitous Web applications with Context Awareness, 11th ICIN 2007 16] J.J. Chen, C. Adams. Short-range wireless technologies with mobile payments systems, Proc. ICEC 04, ACM Press, 2004, pp. 649 656 17] K. Cheverst. Experiences of developing and deploying a context-aware tourist guide: The GUIDE project, 6th International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, Boston, August 2000, pp. 2031 18] D.J. Cooka, J.C. Augusto, V.R. Jakkula, Ambient intelligence Technologies, applications, and opportunitie, Pervasive and Mobile Computing. 2009 


19] J. Hong, E. Suh, S. Kim. Context-aware systems: A literature review and classification, Expert Systems with Applications. Elsevier. 2008 20] G. Matas Miraz, I. Luque Ruiz, M.A. Gmez-Nieto. How NFC can be used for the Compliance of European Higher Education Area Guidelines in European Universities. Proceedings 1st International IEEE Workshop on Near Field Communication. 3-8. 2009   14 


dataset contains a stream of TCP connection records from two weeks of LAN traffic over MIT Lincoln Labs. It consists of 42 attributes that usually characterize network traffic behavior, both categorical attributes and quantitative attributes such as duration of the connections, protocol type etc. Attribute src_byte denoting the number of data bytes from source to destination and attribute dst_bytes inverse are selected in this experiment.  They are both quantitative attributes The user specified parameters are set as follows 5, 0.3, 0.03, 0.01,W min_sup preMinsup T 0.5, 0.4, 30.min_confidence max_MFB min_num_triples And the number of transactions in each time slot is 250 It is assumed that there are no more than three fuzzy sets or intervals in the datasets i.e. 3F Four different approaches to mine association rules are compared using the following notations: Fuzzy+MFB: the approach that use both fuzzy method and MFB_measure with 1 3.0? = and 2 0 .5 2 0.5? = , Fuzzy+P: the approach using fuzzy method with 1 3.0? = and 2 0.5? = also but repressing the first part of the MFB_measure that ignores the changed rate of the membership function, Discrete1: the approach using discrete method with 1 2 1.5? ?= =  and Discrete2 : the approach using discrete method with 1 2 2.5 TABLE I. RESULT OF EXPERIMENT ONE NUM_C NUM_FI NUM_RULE TIME\(s 1 \(50,50 2 \(60,60 3 \(70,70 4 \(80,80 5 \(90,90 6 \(100,100 7 \(110,110 8 \(120,120 9 \(130,130 10 \(140,140 Volume 4] 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology V4-157 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 x 104 


0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Size of Databases\(250 Ex ec u tio n Ti m e\(s ec  Fuzzy+MFB Discrete1 Discrete2 Fuzzy+P Figure 3. Comparison of Execution Time Fig. 3 shows the execution time of the four approaches The runtimes of them grow linearly as the data stream grows which confirms that they are scalable with respect to the size of data stream, and it is mainly because of the usage of sliding window model. Fuzzy+P uses the least time Fuzzy+MFB has similar execution time to Discrete2, and Discrete1 has the most execution time. The difference of runtimes between them is mainly influenced by the clustering operations they use. The more clustering operations were executed, the more runtime it was Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 show the number of frequent itemsets and interesting rules found with the data stream increased Fuzzy+P and Fuzzy+MFB used less clustering operations than Discrete1 and Discrete2. Fuzzy+MFB nearly finds the most number of frequent fuzzy sets and interesting rules with the second least of clustering operations. Sometimes Discrete2 returns nearly the same number of fuzzy sets and interesting rules but with more clustering operations and the 


semantics of Discrete2 are meaningless as discussed in experiment one. Furthermore, the number of interesting rules found by Discrete1 is even less than Fuzzy+P that used the clustering operations least which illustrates the superiority of the method using fuzzy sets V. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, a novel fuzzy ARM algorithm called FFI_Stream is presented to tackle quantitative attributes in data streams and some techniques are proposed in the algorithm. Both synthetic and real datasets are used to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm. The experimental results show both the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm.  In comparison with the discrete method, the proposed algorithm using fuzzy sets and MFB_measure gets a trade-off between the number of interesting rules and efficiency ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work is supported by The National High Technology Research and Development Program of China 863 Program 2008AA042902 Technology Research and Development Program of China 863 Program 2009AA04Z162 Project \(B07031 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 Size of Databases\(250 N um be r o f F re qu e n t I 


te m se ts Fuzzy+MFB Discrete2 Discrete1 Fuzzy+P Clustering Operation Figure 4. Number of Frequent Itemsets 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 Size of Databases\(250 Nu m be r o f I n te re st in g Ru le s Fuzzy+MFB Discrete2 Discrete1 Fuzzy+P Clustering Operation Figure 5. Number of Interesting Rules REFERENCE 1] R. Srikant and R. Agrawal, Mining Quantitative Association Rules 


in Large Relational Talbes, Proc. ACM SIGMOD, 1996, pp. 1-12 2] A.W. Fu et al. Finding Fuzzy Sets for the Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules for Numerical Attributes, In Proceedings of the First International Symposium on Intelligent Data Engineering and Learning \(IDEAL'98 3] C. M. Kuok, A. Fu and M. H . Wong, Fuzzy Association Rules in Large Databases with Quantitative Attributes, In ACM SIGMOD Records, vol. 27, 1998, pp. 41-46 4] X. Dang, V. Lee, W. K. Ng and K.L Ong, Incremental and Adaptive Clustering Stream Data over Sliding Window, Database and Expert Systems Applications, vol. 5690, 2009, pp. 660-674 5] M. Kaya,?R. Alhajj, F. Polat, and A. Arslan, Efficient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules, Database and Expert System Applicaton, vol. 2453, 2002, pp.133-142 6] http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/kddcup99.html 7] S. Guha, A. N. Mishra, R. Motwani, L. OCallaghan, Clustering Data Streams: Theory and Practice,  Proc. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 15, May/Jun. 2003, pp. 515528 8] C. Aggarwal, J. Han, J. Wang, P. Yu, A Framework for Clustering Evolving Data Streams,  Proc. VLDB Conference, 2003,  pp. 81-92 9] C. K. S. Leung, B. Y. Hao, Mining of Frequent Itemsets from Streams of Uncertain Data,  Proc. IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 09 10] C. C. Aggarwal, Y. Li, J. Y. Wang, and J. Wang, Frequent Pattern Mining with Uncertain Data, Proc. ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Jun. 2009, pp 29-37 11] P. M. Tsai, Mining Frequent Itemsets in Data Streams using the Weighted Sliding Window Model, Expert Systems and Applications vol. 36, Nov. 2009, pp.11617-11625 V4-158 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology [Volume 4 


In all charts reported in this section, the X-axis is k, which denotes the size of sample under the space of a target rule drawn from deep web. The sample size for each point on X-axis is k x, where x is a ?xed value for our experiment, and depends upon the dataset. At each time, queries are issued to obtain kx data records under the space of a target rule. Overall, all our experiments show the variance of estimation, sampling costs and sampling accuracy with varying sample size Figure 1 shows the result from our strati?ed sample methods on the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, from which all of the 50 initial rules are derived. In this experiment the ?xed value x is set to be 300, which means the smallest sample size at k = 1 is 300, and the largest sample size at k 10 is 3000. Figure 1 a the ?ve sampling procedures. Figure 1 b cost for the sampling procedures. In order to better illustrate the experiment result, in each execution of sampling, the variance of 330 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH            9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  


9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW           6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF            5 


 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 1. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on US Census Dataset estimation and sampling cost for the sampling procedures var7 var5, var3, and rand are normalized by the corresponding values of Full Var. Thus, in our experiment, the values of sampling cost and variance of estimation for sampling procedure Full Var are all 1. Furthermore, Figure 1 c sampling procedures From Figure 1 a pared with sampling procedures Var7, Var5 and Var3, Full Var has the lowest estimation variance and the highest sampling cost. From sampling procedures Var7, Var5, and Var3, we can see a pattern that the variance of estimation increases, and the sampling cost decreases consistently with the decrease of the weight for variance of estimation. At the largest sample size of k = 10, the estimation variance of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 27% and the sampling cost is decreased by 40 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. The experiment shows that our method decreases the sampling cost ef?ciently by trading off a percent of variance of estimation. Similar to variance of estimation, the sampling accuracy of these procedures also decreases with the decrease of the weight on variance of estimation. For the largest sample size at k = 10, we can see that the AER of sampling procedure Var3 is increased by 20 compared with sampling procedure Full Var. However, for many users, increase of the AER will be acceptable, since the sampling cost is decreased by 40%. By setting the weights for sampling variance and sampling cost, users would be able to control the trade-off between the variance of estimation, sampling cost, and estimation accuracy In addition, compared with sampling procedure of Full Var Var7, Var5, and Var3, sampling procedure Random, has higher estimation of variance, sampling cost and lower estimation accuracy. Thus, our approach clearly results in more effective methods than using simple random sampling for data mining on the deep web Figure 2 shows the experiment result of our proposed strati?ed 


sampling methods on the Yahoo! data set. The size of pilot sample on this data set is 2,000, and the ?xed value x for sample size is 200. The results are similar to those from the US census dataset. We can still see the pattern of the variance of estimation increasing with the decrease of its weight. Besides, the sampling accuracy is also similar to the variance of estimation. However although the variance estimation of sampling procedure Random is 60% larger than sampling procedure Full Var, the sampling cost of Random is 2% smaller than Full Var. This is because Full Var does not consider sampling cost. It is possible that Full Var assigns a large sample to a stratum with low ?, which denotes the probability of containing data records under the space of A = a, resulting the larger sampling cost than that of simple random sampling. Sampling procedures Var7, Var5, Var3 consider sampling cost as well, and have smaller variance estimation and sampling cost, compared with Random. Furthermore, Random has smaller sampling accuracy than Full Var, Var7 and Var5, but has larger sampling accuracy than Var3. This is because Var3 assigns much more importance to the sampling cost, and loses accuracy to a large extent To summarize, our results shows that our proposed strati?ed sampling are clearly more effective than simple random sampling on the deep web. Moreover, our approach allows users to tradeoff variance of estimation and sampling accuracy to some extent while achieving a large reduction in sampling costs B. Differential Rule Mining In this section, we present results from experiments based on differential rule mining. Particularly, we look at the rules of the form A = a ? D1\(t t categorical attribute and t is an output numerical attribute, while other categorical attributes in the data set are considered as input attributes In this experiment, we also evaluate our proposed method with different weights assigned to variance of estimation and sampling cost. Five sampling procedures, Full Var, Var7, Var5,Var3 and Random, have same meanings with those in the experiments of association rule mining. Similarly, 50 rules are randomly selected from the datasets, and each of the 50 differential rules are reprocessed 100 times using 100 different \(pilot sample, sample iterations 5000 runs First, we evaluated the performance of these procedures on 


the US census data set. The size of pilot sample is 2000, and all 50 rules are derived from this pilot sample. In this experiment the ?xed value x for the sample size is set to be 300. The attribute income is considered as a differential attribute, and the difference of income of husband and wife is studied in this experiment. Figure 3 shows the performance of the 5 sampling 331 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW    


      6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 2. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Association Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the US census data set. The results are also similar to the experiment results for association rule mining: there is a consistent trade off between the estimation variance and sampling cost by setting their weights. Our proposed methods have better performance than simple random sampling method 


We also evaluated the performance of our methods on the Yahoo! dataset. The size of pilot sampling is 2000, and the xed value x for the sample size is 200. The attribute price is considered as the target attribute. Figure 4 shows the performance of the 5 sampling procedures on the problem of differential rule mining on the Yahoo! dataset. The results are very similar to those from the previous experiments VI. RELATED WORK We now compare our work with the existing work on sampling for association rule mining, sampling for database aggregation queries, and sampling for the deep web Sampling for Association Rule Mining: Sampling for frequent itemset mining and association rule mining has been studied by several researchers [23], [21], [11], [6]. Toivonen [23] proposed a random sampling method to identify the association rules which are then further veri?ed on the entire database. Progressive sampling [21], which is based on equivalence classes, involves determining the required sample size for association rule mining FAST [11], a two-phase sampling algorithm, has been proposed to select representative transactions, with the goal of reducing computation cost in association rule mining.A randomized counting algorithm [6] has been developed based on the Markov chain Monte Carlo method for counting the number of frequent itemsets Our work is different from these sampling methods, since we consider the problem of association rule mining on the deep web. Because the data records are hidden under limited query interfaces in these systems, sampling involves very distinct challenges Sampling for Aggregation Queries: Sampling algorithms have also been studied in the context of aggregation queries on large data bases [18], [1], [19], [25]. Approximate Pre-Aggregation APA  categorical data utilizing precomputed statistics about the dataset Wu et al. [25] proposed a Bayesian method for guessing the extreme values in a dataset based on the learned query shape pattern and characteristics from previous workloads More closely to our work, Afrati et al. [1] proposed an adaptive sampling algorithm for answering aggregation queries on hierarchical structures. They focused on adaptively adjusting the sample size assigned to each group based on the estimation error in each group. Joshi et al.[19] considered the problem of 


estimating the result of an aggregate query with a very low selectivity. A principled Bayesian framework was constructed to learn the information obtained from pilot sampling for allocating samples to strata Our methods are clearly distinct for these approaches. First strata are built dynamically in our algorithm and the relations between input and output attributes are learned for sampling on output attributes. Second, the estimation accuracy and sampling cost are optimized in our sample allocation method Hidden Web Sampling: There is recent research work [3 13], [15] on sampling from deep web, which is hidden under simple interfaces. Dasgupta et al.[13], [15] proposed HDSampler a random walk scheme over the query space provided by the interface, to select a simple random sample from hidden database Bar-Yossef et al.[3] proposed algorithms for sampling suggestions using the public suggestion interface. Our algorithm is different from their work, since our goal is sampling in the context of particular data mining tasks. We focus on achieving high accuracy with a low sampling cost for a speci?c task, instead of simple random sampling VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have proposed strati?cation based sampling methods for data mining on the deep web, particularly considering association rule mining and differential rule mining Components of our approach include: 1 the relation between input attributes and output attributes of the deep web data source, 2 maximally reduce an integrated cost metric that combines estimation variance and sampling cost, and 3 allocation method that takes into account both the estimation error and the sampling costs Our experiments show that compared with simple random sampling, our methods have higher sampling accuracy and lower sampling cost. Moreover, our approach allows user to reduce sampling costs by trading-off a fraction of estimation error 332 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH      


     V WL PD WL RQ R I 9D UL DQ FH  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W 9DU 9DU 


9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF          5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 3. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the US Census Dataset 6DPSOLQJ9DULDQFH             9D UL DQ FH R I V WL 


PD WL RQ  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG a timation 6DPSOLQJ&RVW          6D PS OL QJ  RV W  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG b 6DPSOLQJ$FFXUDF         


    5  9DU 9DU 9DU 5DQG c Fig. 4. Evaluation of Sampling Methods for Differential Rule Mining on the Yahoo! Dataset REFERENCES 1] Foto N. Afrati, Paraskevas V. Lekeas, and Chen Li. Adaptive-sampling algorithms for answering aggregation queries on web sites. Data Knowl Eng., 64\(2 2] Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pages 487499, 1994 3] Ziv Bar-Yossef and Maxim Gurevich. Mining search engine query logs via suggestion sampling. Proc. VLDB Endow., 1\(1 4] Stephen D. Bay and Michael J. Pazzani. Detecting group differences Mining contrast sets. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 5\(3 246, 2001 5] M. K. Bergman. The Deep Web: Surfacing Hidden Value. Journal of Electronic Publishing, 7, 2001 6] Mario Boley and Henrik Grosskreutz. A randomized approach for approximating the number of frequent sets. In ICDM 08: Proceedings of the 2008 Eighth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pages 4352 Washington, DC, USA, 2008. IEEE Computer Society 7] D. Braga, S. Ceri, F. Daniel, and D. Martinenghi. Optimization of Multidomain Queries on the Web. VLDB Endowment, 1:562673, 2008 8] R. E. Ca?isch. Monte carlo and quasi-monte carlo methods. Acta Numerica 7:149, 1998 9] Andrea Cali and Davide Martinenghi. Querying Data under Access Limitations. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 5059, 2008 10] Bin Chen, Peter Haas, and Peter Scheuermann. A new two-phase sampling based algorithm for discovering association rules. In KDD 02: Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 462468, New York, NY, USA, 2002 ACM 


11] W. Cochran. Sampling Techniques. Wiley and Sons, 1977 12] Arjun Dasgupta, Gautam Das, and Heikki Mannila. A random walk approach to sampling hidden databases. In SIGMOD 07: Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data pages 629640, New York, NY, USA, 2007. ACM 13] Arjun Dasgupta, Xin Jin, Bradley Jewell, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das Unbiased estimation of size and other aggregates over hidden web databases In SIGMOD 10: Proceedings of the 2010 international conference on Management of data, pages 855866, New York, NY, USA, 2010. ACM 14] Arjun Dasgupta, Nan Zhang, and Gautam Das. Leveraging count information in sampling hidden databases. In ICDE 09: Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 329340 Washington, DC, USA, 2009. IEEE Computer Society 15] Loekito Elsa and Bailey James. Mining in?uential attributes that capture class and group contrast behaviour. In CIKM 08: Proceeding of the 17th ACM conference on Information and knowledge management, pages 971 980, New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM 16] E.K. Foreman. Survey sampling principles. Marcel Dekker publishers, 1991 17] Ruoming Jin, Leonid Glimcher, Chris Jermaine, and Gagan Agrawal. New sampling-based estimators for olap queries. In ICDE, page 18, 2006 18] Shantanu Joshi and Christopher M. Jermaine. Robust strati?ed sampling plans for low selectivity queries. In ICDE, pages 199208, 2008 19] Bing Liu. Web Data Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents, and Usage Data \(Data-Centric Systems and Applications Inc., Secaucus, NJ, USA, 2006 20] Srinivasan Parthasarathy. Ef?cient progressive sampling for association rules. In ICDM 02: Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, page 354, Washington, DC, USA, 2002. IEEE Computer Society 21] William H. Press and Glennys R. Farrar. Recursive strati?ed sampling for multidimensional monte carlo integration. Comput. Phys., 4\(2 1990 22] Hannu Toivonen. Sampling large databases for association rules. In The VLDB Journal, pages 134145. Morgan Kaufmann, 1996 23] Fan Wang, Gagan Agrawal, Ruoming Jin, and Helen Piontkivska. Snpminer A domain-speci?c deep web mining tool. In Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, pages 192 199, 2007 24] Mingxi Wu and Chris Jermaine. Guessing the extreme values in a data set a bayesian method and its applications. VLDB J., 18\(2 25] Mohammed J. Zaki. Scalable algorithms for association mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 12:372390, 2000 


333 


